Annual Report
    2020
-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

ISSN 2309-3463


Ratu Sukuna Road, Suva, Fiji
Phone: +679 331 2600 | Fax: +679 322 0266 | Email: info@forumsec.org | Website: www.forumsec.org
-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
CONTENTS					3

PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM MAP			                4

FORUM CHAIR’S MESSAGE			                    5

COVID-19 IMPACT ON THE PACIFIC			           7

2020 HIGHLIGHTS				9

VISION AND MISSION				12

PIF SECRETARIAT					13

STRATEGIC PLANNING				14

ENABLING OUTCOME 1: PROMOTE REGIONALISM	    16

ENABLING OUTCOME 2: PROMOTE DELIVERY	       24

ENABLING OUTCOME 3: PROMOTE INFLUENCE	      30

EVALUATING OUR WORK				34

CAPITAL WORKS					38

WIDER FUNCTIONS				40

GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT		            44

PIFS MANAGEMENT				46

2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENT 			                49

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS				50

2020 PACIFIC ISLANDS FFMM			114

2020 PACIFIC ISLANDS FEMM			120




                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   3
-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

                                                               Marshall Islands


                             Federated States of
                             Micronesia

              Palau
                                                                                  Kiribati
                             Papua New
                             Guinea                                 Nauru

                                                                                                              Kiribati
                                                                                                                                           Kiribati
                                                                                         Tuvalu
                                                                                                              Tokelau
                                                               Solomon Islands

                                                                                                               Samoa
                                                                   Vanuatu

                                                                                                                            Cook Islands
                                                         New Caledonia                         Fiji                                                   French Polynesia
                                                                                                                     Niue

                                                                                                           Tonga




                                                   Australia




                                                                                             New Zealand




    Map of the Pacific Islands Forum
    18 Pacific Islands Forum Member Countries and Territories with their Exclusive Economic Zones




4   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

                                          FORUM CHAIR’S
                                          MESSAGE
                                           HONOURABLE KAUSEA NATANO
                                           PRIME MINISTER OF TUVALU
                                           AND CHAIR OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM




A
         s I reflect on our tenure as Forum Chair, I am reminded of the theme for the 2019 Pacific Islands
         Forum: Securing Our Future in the Pacific, which Tuvalu chose. I believe our collective actions
         and achievements over the past two years have been in the continued service and attainment
         of this objective. The development of strategies to facilitate both health and economic recovery
from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the work on the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent,
and the work to safeguard and protect our maritime zones in the face of sea level rise, are all examples of
the building blocks designed to contribute to ‘Securing Our Future in the Pacific’.
COVID-19 presents an immediate and devastating threat to the Pacific and global community. Our region
is now faced with a three-pronged crisis. The impacts of COVID-19, the devastating effects of climate
change and natural disasters, and fragile economic health of the region as a consequence of our inherent
vulnerabilities. We remain mindful of the interlinkages between these crises and that recovery measures
will need to be designed in response.
Our leaders place the health and wellbeing of the Pacific peoples and Ocean as our greatest priority.
Recognizing that COVID-19 poses significant pressures on health systems around the world, our region
took bold actions to restrict its spread, enforcing unprecedented containment measures resulting in two-
thirds of our Member States remaining COVID-19 free, the only countries in the world to do so from the
onset of the pandemic.
While our measures have saved countless lives, they severely restricted our links to each other and the
world, including the timely procurement and distribution of essential medical supplies.
Furthermore, global response measures to COVID-19 have had devastating socio-economic impacts
on Pacific economies, affecting key drivers of growth including the private sector, trade, tourism,
remittances, and fishing license fees to name a few. The Pacific region is now forecast to contract by
an unprecedented 6.1% in 2020. As the pandemic rages on, existing inequalities are deepening, and
vulnerable communities are being further marginalized.
These circumstances have drawn our region even closer together to explore innovative, inclusive
solutions to addressing COVID-19. Now more than ever, multilateralism is needed. The Pacific has a




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report     5
-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

    proud history of harnessing regionalism to address common issues, and we have proactively mobilised
    to respond as a collective to this crisis. The establishment of the Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on
    COVID-19 under the Biketawa Declaration has enabled the movement of nearly 300 metric tonnes of
    medical and humanitarian supplies as well as 200 technical staff across the region.
    In addition to this, through the assistance of the COVAX facility, and support from Australia and New
    Zealand and our other partners, we are continuing the roll out of vaccines into our communities.
    Climate change remains the greatest security threat to the Blue Pacific Continent. Developed economies
    must take meaningful climate action, which is imperative now more than ever, mindful of the current
    trajectory of global warming. If we continue on this path, the world will likely miss the target of keeping
    global temperatures to below 1.5 degrees above pre-industrial levels, in the next century. This will be
    disastrous for the Pacific. Underpinned by the Leaders calls under the ‘Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent
    Climate Change Action Now’, our Pacific voice has become more united and focused, and our messaging
    has become clearer and more pronounced in our global advocacy for robust climate action on adaptation
    and mitigation.
    We have not lost sight of the need to build resilient Pacific communities and to look for new and
    innovative means to do so. To this end, Leaders endorsed the Pacific Resilience Facility, and the work
    to deliver this Pacific initiative designed to strengthen community level preparedness and resilience to
    climate change impacts.
    On the issue of sea level rise there is no doubt that climate change related sea-level rise continues to
    threaten the very core of our existence – our statehood, our sovereignty, our people, and our identity. Our
    past, present and future economic development strategies and nation building aspirations are based on
    the security and permanency of our maritime zones against sea-level rise. This is a defining issue for us,
    as the security and certainty of maritime entitlements that we generate from our maritime zones under
    the 1982 Law of the Sea Convention are fundamental to the full realisation of our Blue Pacific Continent.
    We are responding collectively and I look forward to finalizing the Declaration on Preserving Maritime
    Zones in the Face of Climate Change-related Sea-level Rise.
    The value of the Pacific Islands Forum is that through our collective commitment and action, we can
    address the issues that are of most importance to us all in a frank and respectful manner. We have come
    to realise in our journey as an organization that sometimes this requires robust political dialogue.
    Ultimately, I believe that our unique Pacific Way of resolving issues – including our ability to talanoa and
    dialogue; our ability to agree to compromise in the interest of our collective; and our ability to reach
    consensus even on the most sensitive of matters underpins the very architecture of our organization, and
    will ensure that we, as a Pacific family, will always resolve our disagreements and issues in a dignified
    way, and remain united as a region.
    As we approach the 50th anniversary of the Pacific Islands Forum, I am inspired by the sentiments of the
    founding fathers of the Pacific Islands Forum, who sought to chart their own course towards a region of
    peace, harmony, security and prosperity. In the context of some of the greatest challenges to ever face
    our Blue Pacific, I believe that our ability to achieve our founding fathers’ vision, and to secure our future
    in the Pacific, is as one Forum family, motivated by the strength and purpose of a unified Blue Pacific
    Continent.
    It has been an honour to serve as Forum Chair for 2019 and 2020.




    Honourable Kausea Natano
    Prime Minister of Tuvalu
    and Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum




6   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

COVID-19 IMPACT ON THE PACIFIC
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation formally declared COVID-19 a global pandemic. As a
region, the Pacific was alert to the health threat, and Governments responded rapidly by closing borders.
Leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum quickly invoked the Biketawa Declaration, a framework developed
in 2000 for coordinating responses to regional crises. The Biketawa Declaration recognizes that, in times
of crisis, all actions must be taken on the basis that Pacific countries are an extended family of island
nations. This is the Pacific Way. The chairing nation, Tuvalu, highlighted the te fale-pili concept, which
literally refers to houses in close proximity to one another and implies that all households have a moral
responsibility to care for and protect their neighbours.
This drives the Pacific’s joint response to COVID-19. It was recognized early on that in the deeply
interconnected Pacific, joint efforts towards regional collaboration on medical, humanitarian, and
logistical assistance will define the ultimate success or failure of the response to, and recovery from,
COVID-19.
A unified global recovery to COVID-19 is also a priority; to build a healthy, prosperous and secure world for
all, using multilateralism to address shared challenges. COVID-19 has significantly disrupted economies
and societies. The challenge now is to rethink, plan and collaborate, working together to build back and
•	   ensure vaccine equity
•	   leave no one behind
•	   protect the health and wellbeing of all
•	   preserve our natural and marine environment
•	   be low emission and climate smart; and
•	   build resilience to future crises.

Specific COVID responses are detailed at Enabling Outcome 1: Promoting Regionalism
•	   Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on COVID-19 (PHP-C)
•	   Overview of the Probable Impacts of COVID-19 on Forum Island Countries
•	   Forum Economic Ministers Statement on COVID-19
•	   Economic Recovery Taskforce
•	   Socio-economic Impact Assessment Taskforce




Operational Response
As Fiji recorded its first COVID-19 case on the 19 March 2020, the Secretariat went into a period of
lockdown from 20 March to 29 June 2020, where most of the staff moved to working remotely and an
increasing number of meetings were held virtually.
At the same time, and in anticipation of the economic impact of COVID-19 on Members, a budget
review and reprioritisation exercise was undertaken by the Secretariat. This ensured that operational
expenditures were minimized and allowed for the establishment of a platform for regional collective
action against COVID-19.
The review resulted in a 12.7% reduction in total expenditure recorded for 2020 compared to 2019 levels,
emanating from reductions in travel, workshops, and meeting costs, while capitalising on the critical
role that technology offers, as borders remain closed. The establishment of new COVID-19 related


                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report      7
-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

    priorities has impacted the delivery of existing priorities of the Secretariat for 2020. Some of these new
    priorities will be carried over into 2021, meaning that some 2021 priorities will now be moved into 2022.
    The Secretariat has worked collaboratively to deliver its work and respond to these issues. This includes
    establishing the Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on COVID-19 (PHP-C) and ongoing work of the Socio-
    Economic Impact Assessment Taskforce and the COVID-19 Economic Recovery Taskforce.
    The Secretariat has successfully adapted to working virtually, conducting virtual consultations on key
    regional policies including the development of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent. While
    the majority of Secretariat staff returned to work at PIF headquarters in late June, face-to-face meetings
    remain limited in favour of virtual meetings. This will continue in 2021, supported by innovative work
    practices, including building digital capacities and technologies.
    In response to the uncertainty around economic recovery, the Secretariat’s 2021 budget proposed
    a 30% discount on Assessed Membership Contributions for 2021 to 2023, to cushion the impacts
    of the pandemic. This proposal was approved by FOC on 10 December 2020. Despite the challenges
    of COVID-19, the Secretariat has developed a 2021-2023 budget and work programme which will see
    the Secretariat operating in line with the projected reductions in revenue from Assessed Membership
    Contributions.
    The Secretariat will continue to monitor and respond to the COVID-19 crisis. It is anticipated that as the
    COVID-19 situation develops, new priorities may appear. The Secretariat will continue to be flexible in
    its approach and ensure that periodic reviews of workplans are incorporated into its planning cycle to
    accommodate new priorities as they come from Members.




8   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

2020 HIGHLIGHTS
18 COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES.
ONE BLUE PACIFIC CONTINENT.
       COVID-19: a regional response to
       a devastating pandemic
  •	   Forum Leaders invoked the Biketawa
       Declaration to respond as one Blue
       Pacific family.
  •	   The Pacific Humanitarian Pathway
       on COVID-19 helped move nearly
       300 metric tonnes of medical and
       humanitarian supplies and 200
       technical staff across the region.
  •	   PIFS also secured personal protective
       equipment (PPE) for Fiji, French
       Polynesia, New Caledonia and Papua
       New Guinea.
  •	   5 regional protocols supported
       deployment of technical personnel;
       customs and biosecurity; immigration;
       repatriation of Forum nationals,
       and clearance of aircraft and ships
       transporting medical supplies.
  •	   Established a Regional Economic
       Recovery Taskforce and a Socio-
       Economic Impact Assessment
       Taskforce.



                                                         PIFS moved online
                                                    •	   Virtual meetings increased by 88%
                                                         between January and April.
                                                    •	   Key Forum Meetings were virtual:
                                                            •	   Foreign ministers
                                                            •	   Economic Ministers
                                                            •	   Trade Ministers
                                                            •	   Officials
                                                    •	   Held 5 public webinars on gender,
                                                         fisheries, West Papua human rights,
                                                         oceans and climate change.
                                                    •	   Held 5 virtual press conferences and
                                                         increased social media presence and
                                                         engagement.


                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   9
-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

           Climate Change and
           Resilience - the world
           must not delay action
     •	    PIF continued to call on the
           international community to meet or
           exceed their obligations and timelines
           as set out under the Paris Agreement.
     •	    On the 5th anniversary of the Paris
           Agreement PIF Leaders hosted a virtual
           roundtable with the 18 Forum Dialogue
           Partners focused on climate action and
           COVID-19 financing for recovery.
     •	    2 Pacific Resilience Partnership (PRP)
           Webinars.
     •	    Partnered with the Government of
           Nauru to convene a virtual Sub-regional
           Private Sector Workshop on Climate
           Finance for Micronesia.
     •	    Worked with the Ministry of Finance
           in Tonga to establish the Resilient
           Development Finance Division and
           strengthen capacity for disaster risk
           financing and risk governance.




                                                                   Securing maritime
                                                                   boundaries in the face of
                                                                   climate change – a defining
                                                                   issue for the Blue Pacific
                                                              •	   Delivered the 2020 Regional Conference
                                                                   on Securing the Limits of the Blue
                                                                   Pacific: Legal Options and Institutional
                                                                   Responses to the Impact of Sea-level
                                                                   Rise on Maritime Zones, in the Context
                                                                   of International Law.
                                                              •	   Established a FOC Specialist Sub-
                                                                   Committee to progress this work.




          Pacific Islands Forum Leaders
          Ocean Statement 2020/21

          “With 96% of our region being
          Ocean, the Ocean is at the heart of
          our geography, our cultures and our
          economies”. A call from Pacific Leaders
          for strong regional action by harnessing
          shared stewardship of the Pacific
          Ocean and acting as one Blue Pacific
          Continent.



10   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

     Trade and Economic
     Development
•	   The Pacific Resilience Facility
     operational arrangements and
     Prospectus were endorsed by Leaders.
•	   Trade Ministers endorsed a roadmap to
     support businesses to export globally
     through the Pacific Aid for Trade
     Strategy 2020-2025.
•	   Delivered the region’s First Trade
     Finance Symposium.
•	   Developed a Joint Cooperation
     Framework with Business Mauritius -
     Forum Trade Ministers Meeting is now a
     standing Forum Meeting.
•	   Pacific Trade Invest helped over 200
     women-led businesses in the region.
     Women made up half of participants at
     PTI training and workshops.




                                                     Planning our future: 2050
                                                     Strategy for the Blue Pacific
                                                     Continent
                                                    •	   Consultations held across the region
                                                         determined 20 future drivers of change
                                                    •	   15 national consultations
                                                    •	   7 CROP internal consultations
                                                    •	   11 CSOs
                                                    •	   9 Private sector
                                                    •	   4 regional stakeholders




     Supporting Sustainable
     Development
•	   2020 Pacific Biennial Report was
     released, pointing to slow progress and
     the negative impact of the pandemic
     on reaching regional development
     targets.
•	   5 SIS Officers were recruited under
     an Attachment Programme in the
     Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru,
     Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands
     and Tuvalu.
•	   Civil society will hold an annual
     dialogue with the heads of Pacific
     regional organisations, including the
     PIF Secretariat.



                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   11
-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

     VISION AND MISSION
     The Pacific Islands Forum comprises Leaders of independent and self-governing territories whose vision
     is for a region of peace, harmony, security, social inclusion and prosperity, so that all Pacific people can
     lead free, healthy and productive lives.
     The Forum’s mission is to “strengthen regional cooperation and integration… in order to further
     Members’ shared goals of economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security”.
     In the Blue Pacific continent of islands spanning 40 million square kilometers of ocean, the Forum has 18
     Members: Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, French Polynesia, Kiribati, Nauru,
     New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa,
     Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.
     Associate Members: Tokelau, and Wallis and Futuna.
     The Forum engages with Members, development partners, civil society and other stakeholders to
     identify, inform, implement and advocate for regional priorities.
     Regionally, this includes Members, Associate Members, the nine CROP agencies, civil society and the
     private sector.
     Internationally, this includes the Forum’s 18 Dialogue Partners, the United Nations, intergovernmental
     organisations such as the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific States, Commonwealth
     Secretariat, and international financial institutions such as the World Bank and Asian Development Bank.




12   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

PIF SECRETARIAT
The PIF Secretariat implements the decisions of Forum Leaders by working with Forum Members
and partners to develop innovative solutions for regional action.
We secure our Blue Pacific future through initiatives and advocacy addressing:
•	   climate change and resilience
•	   sustainable development
•	   ocean management
•	   trade and economic growth
•	   security and good governance.

The PIF Secretariat:
•	   facilitates political discussion
•	   promotes an inclusive regional public policy approach
•	   generates ideas and solutions for the people of the Pacific
•	   presents proposals for Leaders to consider and endorse
•	   supports Forum Leaders to make political decisions on regional action
•	   coordinates the implementation of Forum decisions..

The PIF Secretariat is mandated through the 2005 Agreement establishing the Pacific Islands Forum.
The Pacific Islands Forum, previously the South Pacific Forum, was founded in 1971.
The PIF Secretariat is led by a Secretary General and is based in Suva, Fiji. The Secretary General is
permanent Chair of the Council of Regional Organisations in the Pacific (CROP), and the Chair of the
Specialist Sub-Committee on Regionalism.
The Secretary General serves as the Pacific Ocean Commissioner and the Regional Authorising
Officer for the European Development Fund. As RAO, the SG is authorised by PIF Members to sign
selected regional agreements on their behalf with the EU.


2020 STAFF

                    107 Staff from 13 countries
                    Gender split - 43% males to 57% females
                    55/45% split for international
                    Attrition rate - 0.9% (December 2020)
                    Fijians make up 80% of the workforce, mainly
                    local support staff



                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   13
-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

     STRATEGIC PLANNING
     The Pacific Islands Forum seeks to address the challenges and opportunities facing the Pacific through
     political dialogue. This commitment is formalised in the Framework for Pacific Regionalism endorsed by
     Forum Leaders in July 2014.




     The Framework for Pacific Regionalism commits Leaders
     to “working together to address our common challenges,
     harness shared strengths and ensure that our individual
     and collective advancements bring practical benefits to
     all Pacific peoples.”


     The COVID-19 pandemic is causing unparalleled health, economic and social impacts in Pacific Island
     countries and territories. The region faces enduring challenges, along with a changing global and
     regional context.
     These changes also offer opportunities, such as advances in technology that help to overcome distance;
     agreed values that underpin Pacific regionalism; increased political attention on the role of oceans in
     development, and increased investment in the Pacific.


     PIFS Strategic Framework (2017-2021)
     The PIFS Strategic Framework is focused on
     •	   identifying opportunities and challenges
     •	   framing policy advice
     •	   implementing Pacific regionalism.
     The framework has three Enabling Outcomes which promote
     1.	 Pacific regionalism,
     2.	 Pacific delivery and
     3.	 Pacific influence.


     Aims of the PIFS Work Plan
     Place people at the centre of development, maximise the potential of our shared Pacific ocean,
     increase economic prosperity and strengthen Pacific governance.




14   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   15
-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

     ENABLING OUTCOME 1:
     PROMOTE REGIONALISM
     PIFS will identify regional priorities to advance the vision of Forum Leaders


     Forum Leaders called for the development of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent in 2019, to
     respond to the region’s long-standing vulnerabilities, including climate change and to secure our place
     and prospects as a Blue Pacific Continent by 2050.
     In 2020, the development of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent progressed significantly
     through the leadership of the Co-Chairs of the FOC Sub-Committee of the 2050 Strategy, Fiji and Vanuatu
     in 2020. A highlight of the work was the identification of the region’s future drivers of change – a process
     that featured extensive regional consultation with Members, CROP and regional agencies, non-state
     actors, the private sector, and youth and students.
     The development of the 2050 Strategy also included other major steps such as identifying the key
     regional goods that the region will work on together through the 2050 Strategy and developing themes
     for the Strategy. Inclusivity has been a key underpinning for this work, and as a consequence Members,
     CROP agencies, civil society, private sector, and youth have all contributed to the development of the
     Strategy thus far.
     The consultation workshops in Fiji and Tonga were opened by their respective Heads of Government and
     youth perspectives captured through regional consultations included students from the University of the
     South Pacific and the Pacific Theological College.
     Once finalised, the 2050 Strategy will frame the region’s long-term vision and direction and outline
     the region’s collective areas of action to achieve its long-term vision. Based on the vision, the 2050
     Strategy will also frame the region’s shared advocacy and engagement priorities with its strategic and
     development partners.
     The 2050 Strategy will be conveyed to Leaders for consideration when they meet in 2021.




      “I am excited by the next steps in our process … and
      by what we can accomplish as a region if we think
      strategically, regionally, and with innovative ideas”

     H.E. Nikenike Vurobaravu, Vanuatu High Commissioner to Fiji
     and Co-Chair of the FOC Sub-Committee on the 2050 Strategy




16   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent Work Plan

                                  II.DRIVERS OF CHANGE                III.NATIONAL SUB-REGIONAL

                             •	     Identify current                  FOC Sub-Committee Regional
                                    factors / issues                  Experts
                                    whose outcomes will
I. VISION                           significantly impact
                                    the future of the
Framework                           region
for Pacific                  •	     Important that they               IV. REGIONAL PUBLIC GOODS
Regionalism Blue                    are drawn from
Pacific Continent /                 existing evidence                 Development of and focus on
Identity                            and/or emerging                   Regional Public Goods; PIF
                                    trends                            focus and mandate
FOC Sub-Committee
                                                                      FOC Sub-Committee Regional
                              •	    FOC Sub-Committee                 Experts SSCR
                              •	    National & Sectoral
                                    Consultation CROP
PHASE 1                             WG
                              •	    SSCR Action Foresight


V. REFINE VISION

FOC Sub-Committee
                                                                 VII. SCENARIOS

                                                                 •	    Scenario development
                                                                 •	    Preferred level of ambition
                                                                       for each thematic area
                                                                       (goals)

VI. THEMES
                                                                 FOC Sub-Committee Regional
                                                                 Experts CROP WG Action
Cluster the regional goods                                       Foresight
around a set of key themes

FOC Sub-Committee Regional
Experts CROP WG                                                   VIII. STRATEGIES


                                                            •	   Agreement on preferred futures
                                                            •	   Backcasting i.e. looking
                                                                 backwards to determine how
                                                                 best to reach 2050
IX. LEADERS’ MEETING                                        •	   Identifying potential roadblocks
                                                            •	   Develop a series of strategies /
                                                                 strategic activities.
                                                            •	   Monitoring & Evaluation


                                                                 FOC Sub-Committee Regional
PHASE 2                                                          Experts CROP WG




                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   17
-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

     Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on COVID-19(PHP-C)
     Forum Leaders invoked the Biketawa Declaration in March 2020 as a regional response to the COVID-19
     pandemic. As borders closed, on 7 April 2020, Forum Foreign Ministers endorsed the Pacific Humanitarian
     Pathway on COVID-19 (PHP-C), a regional mechanism to facilitate the movement of essential technical
     personnel, health and humanitarian supplies to strengthen national preparedness and response to
     COVID-19. The PHP-C is overseen and operationalised by the Ministerial Action Group (MAG) supported
     by a Regional Taskforce (RTF).
     Five Common Regional Protocols on Deployment of Technical Personnel, Customs and Biosecurity,
     Immigration, and Repatriation and Clearances were then endorsed and implemented across the region.
     Working with the UN, WHO, WFP, CROP agencies and other organisations, the PHP-C has resulted in
     improved coordination, information sharing and collaboration with development partners. Although
     separated physically, the region has acted as one Blue Pacific.




      The coronavirus pandemic is a crisis like no other. It
      is a challenge that transcends language, culture and
      geography.
      One thing is certain, we cannot overcome this
      virus without cooperation. We need to coordinate
      our responses more effectively... and facilitate the
      movement of humanitarian supplies and personnel to
      countries that need them.
      To this end, the Pacific Islands Foreign Ministers have
      agreed to the establishment of the Pacific Humanitarian
      Pathway on COVID-19, a regionally-led coordination
      mechanism that will provide political leadership and
      oversight.

     Chair of the Special Foreign Ministers Meeting, the Hon Simon Kofe of Tuvalu, April 2020




     Pacific Islands Forum Meetings 2020
     The 2020 summit of Pacific Islands Forum Leaders was deferred to 2021 due to COVID-19 disruptions.

     2020 Forum Trade Ministers Meeting
     The 2020 FTMM was held on 13 February 2020 in Suva, Fiji chaired by the Hon. Premila Kumar, Fiji Minister
     for Trade, and attended by the President of Nauru, Deputy Prime Minister of Cook Islands, Deputy Prime
     Minister of Tuvalu, and Trade Ministers from Australia, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon
     Islands, Tonga and Vanuatu. French Polynesia, Kiribati, New Caledonia and the Republic of the Marshall
     Islands were represented by officials.

18   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

The FTMM endorsed the Pacific Aid for Trade Strategy 2020-2025 with a focus on e-commerce;
connectivity; deepening Forum markets (via quality infrastructure and easier trade); and trade in services.
Ministers also discussed enhancing governance of regional labour mobility; reducing trade impacts on
the environment; trade role in addressing health issues. The FTMM highlighted the need for a regional
approach that is inclusive, promotes regional economic integration, strengthens connectivity, and leads
to export-led growth, more investment and better livelihoods.


2020 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting
The 2020 FEMM was held virtually on 11-12 August 2020 chaired by Hon. Seve Paeniu, Minister for
Finance of Tuvalu, and supported by the PIF Secretary General, Dame Meg Taylor. Ministers attended
from Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.
French Polynesia, Kiribati, New Caledonia, Republic of the Marshall Islands and Solomon Islands were
represented by officials. Observers included CROP agencies and development partners.
The main topic was the response to COVID-19 with the options ranging from more investment in
health, infrastructure, public services and food security. Other topics included the 2020 Biennial Pacific
Sustainable Development Report, climate and disaster risk finance, and the Pacific Resilience Facility.


Overview of the Probable Impacts of COVID-19 on Forum Island Countries
The Secretariat undertook an extensive analysis on the impacts of COVID-19 in the region between
April and July 2020. An Overview of the Probable Impacts of COVID-19 on Forum Island Countries was
developed and presented to Ministers at FEMM.


Forum Economic Ministers Statement on COVID-19
Forum Economic Ministers released a joint statement on the Economic and Social Impacts of COVID-19
on the Pacific. The statement recognised the three-pronged crisis currently facing the region – the impact
of COVID-19, the devastating effects of climate change and disasters, and the fragile economic health of
the region as a consequence of inherent vulnerabilities.
The exceptional response measures and border closures instituted by Forum Member countries have
had a severe, negative flow-on impact on businesses. Data collected from over 130 SMEs, including over
70 female-led/owned businesses, shows 93% of businesses reported a decline in revenue and only 67%
are confident their business will survive. Businesses across the Forum Membership are under threat.
Additionally, the related social impacts of COVID-19 are increasing in Pacific communities and households
as the crisis prolongs. Emerging issues are evident amongst women, youth, children, the elderly and
persons living with disabilities. The Statement emphasises the need for regional solidarity and global
collective action as critical to overcoming these challenges and makes a number of targeted requests
to development partners, including multilateral, regional and development agencies, to work with and
support Forum Members on addressing the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 through innovative
financing approaches


Socio-Economic Impact Assessment (SEIA) Taskforce
At the August FEMM, the SEIA Taskforce was established. The Taskforce consists of the Secretariat and
CROP Agencies and will undertake a regional assessment of the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19 to
inform fit-for-purpose policy responses at national and regional level. Preliminary meetings to establish
the Terms of References (TORs) and a methodology for the conduct of the assessment are underway.


COVID-19 Economic Taskforce (CERT)
The COVID-19 Economic Recovery Taskforce (CERT) was established by the 2020 FEMM to explore
regional initiatives to support national economic recovery efforts. The Taskforce will leverage regional
mechanisms to ensure that outcomes have a long-term and sustainable impact in building and
strengthening the economic resilience of the region.


                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report     19
-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

     Chaired by Kiribati, the Taskforce discussed several proposals for tabling at the 2021 FEMM, among them:
     •	 A monitoring and evaluation framework drawn from the Asian Development Bank’s COVID-19 policy
         database, as a tool to inform decision-making.
     •	 A regional debt conference proposed for late 2021 or early 2022, as a platform to discuss debt relief
         options with lenders.
     •	 Short-term financial interventions to support the longline industry, and possibly other non-fisheries
         goods.

     Both Taskforces will lead a coordinated response that addresses COVID-19 regional economic priorities,
     including health, digital economy and connectivity, food security and agriculture, and building resilient
     and sustainable economies respectively.

     2020 Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting
     The 2020 FFMM met virtually on 14 October 2020 chaired by the Hon. Simon Kofe, Minister for Foreign
     Affairs of Tuvalu, and attended by HE Taneti Maamau, Beretitenti of Kiribati, Hon. Mark Brown, Prime
     Minister of the Cook Islands, Hon. Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of Niue, and Ministers from Australia, the
     Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Nauru, New Caledonia, Palau, Papua New Guinea, the Republic
     of the Marshall Islands and the Solomon Islands. French Polynesia, New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga and
     Vanuatu were represented by officials. Tokelau attended as an Associate Member.
     The FFMM reaffirmed the importance of a regional approach to assist Forum Island Countries in
     responding to the disruption from COVID-19 and discussed ways in which this could be achieved.
     Ministers reaffirmed the 2019 Leader’s decision on the Blue Pacific and the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
     Pacific continent. Ministers welcomed the regional approach to engagement at international fora relating
     to oceans and maritime boundaries. Ministers discussed the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic
     on international commitments to combat climate change and reaffirmed that this should not disrupt
     ambitious climate action.




     Regional Engagement and Advocacy
     Civil Society Engagement
     Twenty six civil society organisations (CSOs) from PIF Member countries met in Suva, Fiji in March 2020
     for training in research, policy analysis and advocacy. CSOs also tested a toolkit for a draft policy on
     Ending Violence Against Women and Girls.
     The 2020 Regional CSO Forum was hosted virtually and covered the social and economic impacts of
     COVID-19. CSOs drafted statements and papers for regional consultations including the Post Cotonou
     Negotiations, 2050 Strategy Consultations and the SDGs Taskforce.
     At the 2020 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting, NSA representative Solomon Yeo of Solomon Islands
     highlighted the need to support communities with the socio-economic impacts of COVID-19. “Being part
     of the CSO Forum made me understand better how CSOs engage at the highest level and also the power
     they possess in influencing decision making,” said Solomon Yeo, campaign manager, Pacific Islands
     Students Fighting Climate Change.
     CSOs met with CROP Heads and Chairs of CROP Governing councils in 2020 on a draft Terms of Reference
     for their engagement. The revised TOR set out the process, principles and conduct of the annual dialogue,
     and was endorsed by CROP Heads out of session. A Call for Proposals in June 2020, through the PIFS
     Grants Microsite, sought innovative NSA partnerships to help monitor Gender Equality and EVAWG
     policies and commitments by national authorities. The selection and award process were set for early
     2021.
     CSO leaders consulted on a pool of Gender Equality Agents for Change to drive gender equality and
     EVAWG in the region. The PIFS set up the Blue Pacific Rugby Team in 2019 to advocate for ending violence
     against woman and girls in male dominated spaces. The PIFS supported civil society engagement in
     other areas, such as the 2050 Strategy and a range of regional consultations.



20   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

                                          Being part of the CSO forum made it easier to understand
                                          how CSO’s engage at the highest level and the power they
                                          possess in influencing decision making. It is also amazing
                                          to see committed and passionate Pacific Islanders who are
                                          investing time into bringing about change in communities.
                                          I have learnt a lot and would encourage more youths to be
                                          involved in this space.


                                          Solomon Yeo, Campaign Manager,
                                          Pacific Islands Students Fighting Climate Change




Review of Forum Observers and Dialogue Partners
At the 50th PIF meeting in Tuvalu, Leaders directed a review of the criteria to become a Forum Dialogue
Partner and Forum Observer. The independent review in 2020 led to revised guidelines to be considered
by Leaders in 2021, along with pending applications for Forum Dialogue partners status.


Smaller Island States (SIS) Strategy
An SIS Strategy for the eight Members (Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Nauru,
Niue, Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands and Tuvalu) seeks national benefits through joint efforts.
SIS Leaders endorsed an SIS Roadmap for Accelerated Development with activities in climate change
(proposal to Green Climate Fund); health (legislative framework for NCDs): marine (nuclear contaminants
and maritime borders), and transport (upper airspace management).




                                            The SIS Work Attachment Program boost my confidence,
                                            allows me to build networks and it gives me the opportunity
                                            to gain more practical experiences at a regional level


                                            Kareketaake Uriam,
                                            SIS Secondee at Resilience and OPOC office, PIFS




Five SIS Officers were engaged under an Attachment Programme in the Federated States of Micronesia,
Nauru, Palau, Republic of the Marshall Islands and Tuvalu. Kiribati, Cook Islands and Niue are to recruit
officers. The programme trained twelve participants, with five more starting in early 2020.



Council of Regional Organisations in the Pacific
CROP agencies outlined their work for Leaders in a CROP 2020 annual report. A 2020 CROP Strategic Work
Agenda was endorsed by CROP Heads and Chairs of CROP Governing Councils with nine priorities: 2050
strategy for the Blue Pacific continent; climate change and disaster resilience; regional security; sea level


                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report      21
-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

     rise, maritime boundaries, and baselines; legacy issues of nuclear testing; Biological Diversity Beyond
     National Jurisdiction (BBNJ); regional mechanism to address oil spills; regional fisheries and regional
     health issues. CROP agencies delivered policy and technical advice; programme delivery; meetings of
     CROP Heads and Deputies; collaboration through CROP Taskforces and Working Groups; support for
     FOC Sub-Committees; joint communications, and regional reviews and reports. Four CROP Taskforces
     were created to focus on the 2050 strategy for the Blue Pacific; nuclear legacy issues; socio-economic
     impacts of COVID-19, and advocacy for ocean-related events.
     A new CROP Heads – Civil Society Dialogue held its first meeting in early 2021 focused on COVID-19,
     social inclusion and regional fisheries.
     An independent review found the Pacific Islands Development Program (PIDP) did not meet the
     membership criteria of the CROP Charter. Reforms were underway at PIDP to meet the criteria.


     CROP response to COVID-19
     In March 2020, Pacific Leaders recognised COVID-19 as a major crisis. On 8 May 2020, CROP Heads
     pledged full support for a regional response. COVID-19 required CROP to streamline their services to
     Members and shift much of it online. This valuable experience has provided lessons on innovation,
     flexibility, collaboration, setting priorities and virtual engagement.
     CROP Heads statement on COVID-19, 4th May, 2020: COVID-19 is threatening the health, wellbeing and
     security of all Pacific people. This crisis recognizes no borders and requires leadership, coordination,
     and cooperation from across our Blue Pacific region. CROP will work to ensure the Pacific can face this
     challenge in the same way we have faced others in the past- with confidence, resilience and unity, in the
     true spirit of our common Blue Pacific.


     Good Governance and Election Observers
     Carried out under the 2000 Biketawa Declaration, Forum Election Observer Missions highlight the
     Forum’s commitment to good governance. In 2020, the Forum prepared for general elections in Vanuatu,
     Kiribati, Niue, Papua New Guinea (Bougainville) and Palau, and a referendum in New Caledonia.
     The Forum team deployed to the Vanuatu election in March but returned early due to the COVID-19 crisis.
     To monitor the New Caledonia referendum, the Forum deployed resident Forum diplomatic missions as
     observers in October, supported virtually by PIFS staff in Suva. Reports were submitted to the Vanuatu
     and New Caledonia Governments, with recommendations to support electoral processes.
     On the situation in West Papua (Papua), the PIFS hosted a virtual and in-person talanoa (chat) session on
     Human Rights: West Papua (Papua), with Theplans2020
                                                     for areport
                                                           secondistalanoa in 2021.feedback platform. The
                                                                    an important
                                              report is an opportunity to take stock, adjust, realign, and
                                              relaunch actions required for the overall success of the
     2020 Biennial Pacific Sustainable        2030Development
                                                    Agenda.           Report
     The 2020 Biennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report was endorsed by the Forum Economic
     Ministers Meeting as an update of the 2018 Report. The theme is “Ensuring Pacific People’s wellbeing
                                               Henry2050
     through the Blue Pacific identity: the proposed Cocker,
                                                          Strategy and the achievement of the 2030 Agenda
     for Sustainable Development”.             Regional Planning Adviser


     The 2020 Biennial Report reaffirms:
     •	   the region’s ongoing vulnerability to the impacts of climate change and natural disasters;
     •	   the need to bridge the significant gap in the participation of men vis a vis women in our economies,
          with women and youth in particular, under-represented in formal employment across the region;
     •	   the need to address and work to reduce the high rate of violence against women and girls – a
          problem deeply ingrained in our social norms and attitudes;
     •	   the need to strengthen the representation of women in political leadership; and
     •	   the recognition of the one million-plus persons with disabilities in the Pacific who still face deep
          inequalities and multiple barriers.


22   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Our region must work together to accelerate progress in several goals such as quality education (Goal 4),
climate action (Goal 13) as well as the life on land and below water (Goals 14 and 15).




“The 2020 Biennial Report does not sugar-coat
our reality here in the Blue Pacific… despite some
significant achievements and milestones, it confirms
the slow progress on our development targets in the
Pacific with increasing vulnerabilities and deepening
inequalities, more so now as we navigate through this
pandemic”

Secretary General, Dame Meg Taylor




                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    23
-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

     ENABLING OUTCOME 2:
     PROMOTE DELIVERY
     PIFS will mobilise partnerships and financing to deliver on Forum priorities

     Climate Change and Resilience
     COVID-19 disrupted approved work for 2020; one of the most significant impacts of the pandemic
     was the postponement of the COP26 meeting. Climate change and resilience remained a focus of the
     Secretariat’s work however, and the year saw recruitment of additional core capacity to support resilient
     development financing.
     On the climate change front, the Forum Secretariat’s key achievement in 2020 was the successful Pacific
     Islands Forum Leaders roundtable with Forum Dialogue Partners on Climate Ambition in December 2020.
     This marked the eve of the five-year anniversary of the Paris Agreement, a day prior to the global climate
     summit jointly hosted by the UNSG and the UK. There was also a Blue Pacific Webinar in September 2020
     to commemorate the first anniversary of the Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Change Action
     Now.
     On resilience engagement, the Pacific Resilience Partnership (PRP) Monthly Webinars commenced in
     August to share Pacific issues and the approaches taken at the regional and national level including
     the lessons learnt and identification of potential opportunities. The Secretariat also facilitated regular
     coordination meetings for the co-leads of the five PRP Technical Working Groups (TWG). Through the
     TWG on Risk Governance with membership drawn from the national NDMO and legal offices around
     the team, with technical support from the International Legal, Resilience and Security team, was an
     opportunity to build linkages between the FRDP, Boe Declaration and the PHP-C particularly for national
     officials.




                                              In this current era of multiple hazards, compounded by
                                              COVID-19, the need for effective local humanitarian actions
                                              based on strong local capacity has never been more
                                              obvious.
                                              It is important to uphold commitments for meaningful
                                              inclusion of all diverse women and people with disabilities
                                              in decision making and supporting them as first responders
                                              in all crisis setting.
                                              Susan Grey, Executive Director of FemlinkPacific and
                                              co-chair of the PRP TWG on Humanitarian Localization.




     The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework for the Framework for Resilient Development in the
     Pacific (FRDP) was complemented by an independent review of the effectiveness of the Pacific Resilience
     Partnership (PRP) governance arrangements and alignment of the FRDP to the Paris Agreement. Further,
     the Secretariat continued the development of the Pacific Resilience Standards as a regional tool to
     support the implementation of the FRDP. In collaboration with SPC and SPREP as the PRP Support

24   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Unit, PIFS continues to support the PRP Taskforce which provides broad guidance to the PRP with three
meetings held in 2020.
In terms of the Means of Implementation, the Secretariat’s focus was to support FICs to effectively access
and manage climate finance and disaster risk finance. An Informal Technical Working Group (TWG) on
Climate Finance and Public Financial Management (PFM) was jointly established by PIFS and PFTAC and
held nine meetings in 2020. The work of the TWG was commended by the Forum Economic Ministers
Meeting in August 2020 with a progress update to be provided in 2021. In supporting the private sector to
effectively engage with governments and to determine its needs, the Secretariat supported the national
private sector organisations in Cook Islands, Solomon Islands and Tonga with a mapping of climate
change and resilience activities undertaken by businesses in these three countries. The Secretariat with
the Government of Nauru jointly convened a virtual Sub-regional Private Sector Workshop on Climate
Finance for Micronesia in November 2020 in an attempt to elevate the discussions about access to
finance for the private sector and its associated challenges and opportunities at the sub-regional level.
The workshop was attended by more than 70 participants from government and the private sector across
the Micronesian countries (Nauru, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati and Palau).
The Secretariat continued support for the PRP Technical Working Group on Disaster Risk Financing
which was established in 2019. It also supported the establishment of the Resilient Development Finance
Division under the Ministry of Finance in Tonga to help strengthen capacity for disaster risk financing and
risk governance.


Private Sector engagement
The PIFS supported private sector organisations in Cook Islands, Solomon Islands and Tonga by mapping
climate resilience activities by businesses in these countries. The PIFS and Government of Nauru co-
hosted a virtual Sub-regional Private Sector Workshop on Climate Finance in November 2020, attended
by more than 70 participants from the Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru
and Palau. Nauru’s Secretary for Commerce, Industry and Environment Ms. Berilyn Jeremiah, emphasised
the importance of engaging the private sector to achieve tangible benefits for overall resilient and
sustainable development. She further added that the workshop (Sub-regional Private Sector Workshop
on Climate Finance for Micronesia) provided an opportunity to learn from each other and discuss ways in
which to collectively strengthen public-private sector engagements in climate change finance.




“The Chamber of Commerce sees the impact of climate
change and disasters as the most critical threats
facing businesses in the Pacific today. We believe the
private sector mapping has made existing public-
private partnerships stronger. SICCI members have
new guidance and interest in accessing climate change
resources for mitigation and adaptation activities as
resilient business operators.”
Mr Jay Bartlett, Chairperson of Solomon Islands Chamber of Commerce (SICC).




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report     25
-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

     Pacific Resilience Facility
     The PRF will help fund disaster preparedness and climate risk resilience in vulnerable Pacific communities
     by providing small-scale grants for community resilience. The work is led by a Technical Working Group of
     senior Forum officials. Following the 2019 Forum Leaders’ decision to establish the PRF, a prospectus was
     endorsed by Forum Economic Ministers in 2020 to engage development partners for financial support.
     The PIFS is monitoring the impacts of COVID-19 on Forum Members, while engaging with development
     partners to secure financial pledges and other support. A global pledging event to assist with funding the
     PRF was delayed due to the pandemic.



     “The Pacific Resilience Facility is a Pacific owned, led,
     and designed initiative endorsed by Pacific Islands
     Forum (PIF) Leaders.
     Through an innovative and pioneering approach to
     disaster preparedness and providing low quantum
     upfront investments in communities, the PRF will be
     positioned to respond swiftly and practically to the
     challenges faced by Pacific communities”

     Pacific Resilience Facility Prospectus: Building Community Resilience in Extraordinary Times.



     Regional Trade Integration
     The disruption of COVID-19 took a heavy toll on Pacific businesses, but also presented opportunities for
     trade and investment innovation. Key sectors impacted included tourism, ICT and fisheries, as well as
     the emerging digital economy in the region. The Pacific Aid for Trade Strategy 2020-2025 guides the PIFS
     trade programme and recognises that a strong business sector is critical to economic recovery from the
     pandemic.
     Key achievements this year are the Region’s First Trade Finance Symposium, the Joint Cooperation
     Framework with Business Mauritius and securing the Forum Trade Ministers Meeting as a standing
     Forum Meeting.




26   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Regional E-Commerce Strategy
E-commerce is a game-changer for inclusive, sustainable development. Despite trade liberalisation,
integrating Forum Island Countries into the global value chain is an uphill battle. However, e-commerce is
introducing borderless trade opportunities along with innovative solutions for business. In strengthening
Pacific e-commerce, this Strategy will help to offset structural weaknesses such as small size, lack of
scale, limited capacity, distance from main markets, and the physical clearance of goods at borders


Private Sector Development
Micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are the backbone of many island economies, a key
employer of women and young people, and a major driver of innovation. E-commerce skills and digital
tools have become more important with border closures and public health restrictions. At the 2020
Forum Economic Ministers Meeting, private sector representatives highlighted the need for public-
private partnerships in economic recovery. Within the Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific
States (OACPS), an OACP Business Forum was set up to strengthen private sector issues.


Enhance Regional Connectivity
The Pacific Quality Infrastructure (PQI) project aims to strengthen access to services that enhance trade
competitiveness in the Pacific region. This will encourage higher quality and safer products for local and
international markets.


Public Financial Management
The EU-funded Strengthening Public Finance Management and Governance in the Pacific project
coordinates Public Financial Management efforts in the region. The implementing partners include
the Pacific Financial Technical Assistance Centre (PFTAC), University of the South Pacific (USP), United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Pacific Association of Supreme Audit Institutions (PASAI).
The PFTAC delivers on-demand technical assistance; the USP sets up certified curricula for training;
UNDP works with Parliamentary bodies, and PASAI builds capacities of audit institutions). Future work
includes regional workshops in public financial management and case studies. The PIFS coordinates the
programme.


Labour Mobility
Labour mobility is an increasingly important driver of economic and social development with seasonal
worker schemes in Australia and New Zealand, as well as between FICs. It presents opportunities for
non-skilled and semi-skilled workers, such as under the Pacific Labour Scheme. The social welfare of FIC
workers, and intra-regional mobility, are key priorities. Seasonal workers and receiving states all benefit
in some way from the economic returns of labour mobility.


Fisheries
In 2015 Pacific Island Forum Leaders called for increased sustainable economic returns from fisheries to
be achieved in five years, within the context of the Fisheries Roadmap. In 2020 the Secretariat engaged
two consultants to undertake an independent review of progress made to date and a joint inter-agency
committee, involving PIFS, FFA, PNAO and SPC, was established to steer this work. As result of the review,
a draft report was developed and discussed by PNA Ministers and FFA Officials. The final report will be
discussed by Fisheries Ministers in 2021 and a high quality and credible report then delivered to Forum
Leaders.


Social Policy
Increased inequalities and vulnerabilities resulting from COVID-19 are impacting the health and education
of Pacific communities. In addition to the Socio-economic Impact Assessment of COVID-19 in the region,


                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report     27
-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

     PIFS has partnered with several other agencies to address these challenges in the region.
     As a regional partner to the Pacific Education Regional Framework (PACREF), PIFS worked closely with the
     PACREF Facilitation Unit and implementing agencies to ensure education systems delivered equal access
     to quality education in the region. A focus was inclusive education programs and support for Technical
     Vocational Education and Training for enhanced skills development across all industries.
     SPC is the lead on implementing the NCD Roadmap, and in 2020 PIFS supported by ensuring policy
     dialogue and discussions were reflected in the COVID-19 regional response efforts. A working group was
     also reconvened to address cervical cancer as a regional priority for Pacific Leaders and will continue to
     progress efforts for a regional situation analysis to inform a Pacific response.




     Forum Trade Ministers acknowledged the multiple
     facets of labour mobility, which offers opportunities
     within and beyond the region, and recognised the need
     for a long-term and inclusive decision-making Forum
     mechanism on regional labour mobility issues.
     Ministers also noted the need for a broad and inclusive
     regional platform for decision making and endorsed
     Labour Mobility as a standing agenda item of Forum
     Trade Ministers Meetings and Forum Trade Official
     Meetings




28   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   29
-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

     ENABLING OUTCOME 3:
     PROMOTE INFLUENCE
     PIFS will promote political and strategic relationships to advance Forum priorities

     International Engagement and Advocacy
     In 2020, Forum Foreign Ministers agreed to the following priorities:
     •	   COVID-19 response and recovery
     •	   climate change and resilience
     •	   sustainable ocean management, use and conservation; and
     •	   regional security.

     The PIFS developed a Blue Pacific Messages Guide setting out Forum calls to action for these priorities,
     which also featured in Forum statements and media engagement.
     On COVID-19, the Forum Chair delivered a statement to the UN General Assembly in December 2020,
     while the PIFS briefed Forum Dialogue Partners on priorities for COVID-19 recovery. On climate change
     and resilience, the Secretary General was supported in various climate advocacy meetings, including
     with the United Nations Secretary General António Guterres and United Kingdom’s Lord Goldsmith,
     Minister for Pacific and the Environment. Importantly, PIFS facilitated the Kainaki II to COP 26 High Level
     Roundtable on Urgent Climate Change Action Now in December 2020, marking the five-year anniversary
     of the Paris Agreement with Forum Leaders and Forum Dialogue Partners. The United Kingdom’s COP 26
     President Designate, Rt. Hon. Alok Sharma, affirmed the partnerships approach which Forum Leaders
     have highlighted as a critical part of climate action.




     ‘We meet as Leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum, and
     as Forum Dialogue Partners, on the eve of the fifth
     anniversary of the Paris Agreement with one goal in
     mind – to drive ambitious climate change action, now.
     Five years on, we must now ask ourselves: are we
     making the necessary policy and behavioural change
     to keep us on the 1.5 degree pathway? From the
     perspective of the Blue Pacific, the answer is simple: no,
     we are not.’

     Hon. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of Tuvalu and Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum




30   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Forum Leaders endorsed a Forum Leaders Ocean Statement on sustainable oceans management, which
was promoted at international events.



‘We, the Pacific Islands Forum Leaders, representing the
Blue Pacific and its peoples, are committed to strong
regional action, harnessing shared stewardship of the
Pacific Ocean and acting as one Blue Pacific Continent.
With 96 per cent of our region being Ocean, the Ocean
is at the heart of our geography, our cultures and our
economies.’




PALM Meeting
Forum Foreign Ministers met with the Japanese Prime Minister in October 2020 in the 4th PALM Ministerial
Interim Meeting, to review progress since the 2018 PALM 8 Leaders meeting and plan for PALM 9 in 2021.
Discussions focused on COVID-19, climate change and disaster resilience, oceans health and sustainable
economic development.
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan, Toshimitsu Motegi emphasised Japan’s determination to support
the Pacific Islands region, in cooperation with international and regional organisations, not only through
short-term assistance but also through mid-to-long term support to strengthen their health care systems
amid the COVID-19 pandemic and to help address economic challenges.
The PALM was initiated in 1997 by Japan to strengthen relations with PIF countries and work jointly
towards the development of the Pacific region. The PALM is co-chaired by the Prime Minister of Japan
and the Chair of the PIF and is attended by the Leaders of the FIC Members and the Foreign Ministers of
Australia and New Zealand. PALM is held in Japan every three years.

                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    31
-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

     New Partnership Agreement - OACPS and EU
     A new Partnership Agreement between the 79-member Organisation of African, Caribbean and Pacific
     States (OACPS), and the 27-member European Union (EU) was initialed on 15 April 2021. This is the new
     legal framework for cooperation between the EU and OACPS over the next 20 years and will be signed
     by Leaders in late 2021. The PIFS, and other CROP agencies, provided technical support to Pacific ACP
     States (PACPS) in their negotiations.
     Ambassador Fatumanava III Dr Pa’olelei Luteru of Samoa, a lead negotiator in Brussels, said the new
     agreement “will play a catalytic and pivotal role in our collective journey to prosperity, peace and a safe
     planet for all to live and flourish and where no one is left behind.” The 15 PACPS are Fiji, Cook Islands,
     Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa,
     Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu, plus Timor Leste, a Special Observer of the Forum which
     joined the PACPS in 2003.




      Pacific Negotiators at the signing of the new Partnership Agreement between the Members of the Organisation of
                        African, Caribbean, and Pacific States (OACPS), and the European Union (EU).




     Communications and Public Affairs
     The Communications Team has focused on promoting the work of the Forum and Members and
     driving awareness, advocacy and action to advance the priorities of Leaders. The COVID-19 pandemic
     has changed the way we communicate. More than ever before we are relying on technology to discuss,
     inform, influence and inspire. A focus on digital platforms and content saw a refreshed website, increased
     social media engagement and a rise in followers on both Facebook (43,000+ by Dec 2020) and Twitter
     (38,000+). A new webinar series was instigated, and five webinars were held on topics such as gender-
     based violence; fisheries; human rights and climate change. The first Forum e-newsletter was published
     in December 2020.


32   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Coverage in national, regional and international media was driven by more than 60 Forum statements
and releases on a wide range of topics, plus opinion pieces and press conferences. PIFS also co-hosted
media training workshops with the Pacific Islands News Association and the Australian-funded Pacific
Media Assistance Scheme. Thirteen journalists from seven Pacific nations participated.




Legal Support and Coordination
Sea Level Rise
In 2019, Leaders noted with concern the threat posed by sea level rise to the Blue Pacific Continent and
committed to conclude negotiations on maritime boundary claims and zones. Leaders also committed
to ensuring that maritime zones could not be challenged or reduced by sea-level rise and climate change.
A virtual regional conference in September 2020, convened by the Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum,
Tuvalu, with support from PIFS and other partners examined the Leaders’ commitments and identified
potential legal options to advance them. The outcomes of the conference were endorsed by Forum
Foreign Ministers in October 2020, and include:

•	   development of a regional declaration for consideration by Leaders in 2021, and
•	   establishment of a FOC Specialist Sub-Committee on Sea-Level Rise in Relation to International
     Law. The sub-committee’s work plan includes engaging in UN processes on oceans and the Law of
     the Sea whose theme is sea-level rise. The aim is to help shape global and regional discussions and
     the rights of Pacific states against climate change related sea-level rise and its impacts.


Nuclear Legacy Issues
In 2019, Leaders tasked the Secretariat to coordinate assistance in addressing the impacts of nuclear
testing in Kiribati, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the region. A CROP Taskforce on Nuclear
Legacy Issues in the Pacific was established in August 2020 and met three times in 2020. The work plan
includes a survey of Forum Members to understand their needs and identify where support is needed.
This is one of several steps leading into a comprehensive scientific assessment of contamination issues.
In 2019, Leaders called for the operationalisation of the Rarotonga Treaty (nuclear-free zone). The
Treaty Parties met on 15 December 2020 and issued a Ministerial Statement calling for a Meeting of the
Consultative Committee under the Treaty in 2021, to consider practical means of operationalising the
Treaty to advance Forum Leaders’ decisions.




“The Rarotonga Treaty is one of our very first and most
significant achievements as the Forum family. It is a
powerful testament to what we can achieve through
regionalism, through collective action, under the
framework of international law, and in conforming to
the rules-based international order, to which we all
subscribe,”

Secretary General, Dame Meg Taylor




                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   33
-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

     EVALUATING OUR WORK
     In 2020 COVID-19 disrupted PIFS services to Forum Members and other stakeholders due to border
     closures, social distancing, and related precautions. The Secretariat offices were closed to all but a
     skeleton staff. The response was to maintain contact via virtual means and adapt work practices to suit
     a changed work environment. This flexibility, and the opportunities offered by innovative solutions, has
     allowed the PIFS and its partners to successfully continue their work programmes.


     Human Resources
     This has been a significant year of change for the Human Resources Team, in response to COVID-19,
     digital transformation, process improvement and a change of leadership. In January 2021 HR farewelled
     Lusi Tuivanuavou, Team Leader Human Resources after 19 years of dedicated service, and welcomed
     new Team Leader, Sam McAleese.
     Pre-COVID the HR team was tracking well across all deliverables. Post-COVID the HR Team had to pivot to
     address the welfare considerations of staff, centered around health and safety and working from home.
     The HR response to COVID has been multi-faceted with regular staff meetings, welfare calls, a new PIFS
     Staff Newsletter, fortnightly Wellness Wednesday sessions, psychological support, surveys, vaccinations
     and working from home.
     The health and safety of staff has been the main concern. Staff cohesion has increased due to the
     measures undertaken as well as managing anxiety around COVID and a work/life balance. Above all, staff
     and the organisation have successfully transitioned to remote work and adapted to the new normal.
     The integration of the Human Resources Information Management System (HRIMS) and our partner
     finance systems has reduced costs and replaced manual processes. The HRIMS now incorporates all
     HR management and administration data for employees. A new Employee Self Service system was
     launched for all leave processing with further modules to be rolled out, creating a single portal for staff
     administration via the cloud. HR also improved recruitment timeframes, online training and an HR
     Dashboard for staff on the intranet.
     PIFS remains an employer of choice within the region through the strength of our reputation, competitive
     remuneration packages and low attrition. PIFS continues to be a competitive employer around learning
     and development, recognition and rewards, and succession planning.




                                               After serving my country for over thirty years and gaining
                                               skills and experience in my field of expertise, I wanted to
                                               offer my services towards the development of the region,
                                               and the best way to do that is to join the premier institution
                                               in the region.


                                               Denton Rarawa,
                                               Senior Economics Adviser




34   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

What stands out for me at PIFS is the people, I have
enjoyed the working relationships with staff and senior
management teams, we are a family and that makes the
working environment a good one.


Mele Utoikamau,
Corporate Services




I joined PIFS simply because I am passionate to serve our
Blue Pacific Continent and her people by contributing to
regional policy development, and advancing the rule of law
in our region.


Gayle Manueli,
Research Officer




         Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   35
-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

36   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

 Number of virtual Meetings for 2020
  250


  200


  150

                                              208                                           208
  100
                                                         198        188        192                       181       130
                                   146                                                                                       144
   50                                                                                                                                     106

             26          41
    0
                         y




                                                                                                     r




                                                                                                                         r
             y




                                                                                                    be




                                                                                                                                      r
                     ar




                                                                                                                         be



                                                                                                                                     be
         ar




                                                                                         t
                                 h




                                                                                       us




                                                                                                               er
                    ru




                                                                                                    em
        nu




                                                                                                                         m
                                                               ne
                              rc




                                                                                                                                      m
                                         ril




                                                                          ly
                                                    y




                                                                                                               b
                                                                                        g
                     b




                                                                                                                      ve
                              Ma




                                                    Ma




                                                                                                                                   ce
                                         Ap




                                                                                     Au




                                                                                                            to
                                                               Ju



                                                                          Ju




                                                                                                  pt
        Ja


                  Fe




                                                                                                                    No
                                                                                                          Oc




                                                                                                                              De
                                                                                             Se




Building a flexible, innovative PIFS response to COVID-19 disruption

Projects                                                   Benefits 
New sound systems to meeting rooms                         Improved sound quality to support regional meetings. 
New wireless solution                                      Improved security and capabilities. 
Upgraded network solution                                  Improved connectivity in PIFS with lower costs.
New Integrated information                    Systems An upgraded Finance system to suit current demands. 
(IIMS) for Finance and HR
                                                           A new HR system for staff to apply for leave and check their
                                                           totals.  
New Intranet                                               A new intranet for staff online access.  
                                                           A new helpdesk solution for Information Services.
                                                           A new Asset management database. 
Telecommunications upgrade for Internet,                   Internet service upgrade. 
Landline, Mobile.                                          Increased capacity at lower cost for three years, with three
                                                           providers.
                                                           Telephone costs halved.
                                                           Mobile services improved at lower cost.
Improved PIFS security                                     Upgrades to automate some features, including systems up-
                                                           dates, and working with website vendors.  

                                                           A two-factor authentication system for staff access.
Hardware refresh                                           Replaced staff computers bought in 2016 to 2017.  




                                                                     Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                     37
-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

     CAPITAL WORKS
     The rebuild of the Forum Fale was completed in 2020. The Forum Fale is an iconic part of regionalism; our
     countries gather under the same roof to work as one Blue Pacific Continent on issues that affect us all.
     The original Fale, Conference Centre and Secretariat buildings and residences were designed by a local
     architect firm, Archi­tects Pacific. The design of the new Fale mirrors the original structure and maintains
     the aesthetics with additions including a stage and a break out area. The structure and the building
     components are not only beautiful but durable, ensuring the longevity of this building. The re-design
     was awarded to Architects Pacific and work on the Fale rebuild began in January 2018.


     Other works included:
     •	   Upgrade of the Main Conference Centre including installation of windows at ceiling height, new fans
          and lighting
     •	   Garden upgrades (replanting and landscaping)
     •	   Installation of an accessible WC for persons with disabilities on the Main Conference Room level
     •	   New sewer lines and new pump installation.
     •	   Cyclone certification of all PIF HQ assets




38   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   39
-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

     WIDER FUNCTIONS
     Pacific Trade Invest
     PTI offices in Australia, China, New Zealand and Switzerland promote trade, investment, tourism and
     labour mobility.
     The Pacific islands region remained largely safe from COVID-19 outbreaks in 2020, however, the impact
     on livelihoods and economies was devastating – closed borders crippled tourism and travel. Job losses
     and business closures also reduced tax revenues to support public services.
     A PTI Pacific Business Monitor survey series tracked COVID-19 impacts in the region. The surveys helped
     to develop policy options advocating stronger support for the private sector. The reports highlighted
     the effects on each island country and informed the countries of paths to economic recovery. It also
     reinforced the importance of the Australian and New Zealand markets, as most Pacific exporters view
     them as primary markets.


     Trade support
     Digital Innovation in 2020 enabled Pacific businesses to enhance pathways into markets. PTI Australia
     delivered a programme for market services to connect companies with opportunities in Australia.
     Webinars were also organised by PTI Australia on the growing e-economy. A six-week Social Media for
     e-Business Scholarship taught how to effectively use social media as a business tool.
     PTI New Zealand piloted a Pasifika Innovators Entrepreneurs Programme to connect young entrepreneurs
     to Pasifika communities in New Zealand and the Pacific region.
     PTI China partnered with Investment Fiji and the Fiji Mission in China to launch the online Fiji-China
     Online Trade Expo in Beijing. A Cook Islands Retailers Online Platform was also launched, with an Arts
     and Crafts Centre in the Cook Islands, which PTI China funded. This encouraged small business operators
     to list products online, with some generating export sales.
     China approved market access for 77 fisheries exporters from Papua New Guinea, with PTI facilitating
     technical support. More exporters are going through the approval process. PTI Australia supported 582
     businesses across 16 Pacific nations, to facilitate over A$20 million in exports and a record nine investment
     deals. Market studies for kava and fisheries highlighted opportunities in producing countries. Other
     support included facilitating discussions between the Solomon Islands Timber Processing Association
     and potential buyers in China.


     Tourism agenda
     In 2020 PTI launched Australia’s Digital Tourism COVID-19 support package, in partnership with digital
     tourism technology provider WHL. This reduced monthly fees for hosting and other services while
     providing support to promote digital assets. With borders closed, travellers spent more time online.
     Digital Tourism workshops, and a learning hub, offered tools for tourism operators to adapt. For many
     operators this was their first virtual training.


     Investment opportunities
     The PTI network helps investors looking for opportunities in the Pacific, especially those with positive
     social and environmental impacts. Border closures made it challenging for investors to perform due
     diligence on assets so digital platforms were critical. A highlight for PTI Australia was a feature on the


40   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Pacific as a viable investment destination, in Forge magazine, and PTI Australia’s Investment Directory
listing 35 projects valued at over A$27m.
Support to the FIC Investment Promotional Authority included revised investment policies and new
projects translated into Chinese. An investment business guide app was also designed for Chinese
investors. The China-Pacific Investment Program – PTI China’s signature investment promotion event
- in partnership with the Pacific Missions was launched in 2020. This event promoted PNG investment
projects, with the second event in 2021 to promote Fiji investment projects.


Supporting Women in the private sector
PTI offices helped over 200 women-led businesses and ensured about half of participants at training and
workshops were women. PTI China funded the Vanuatu Online Farmers Market to support exporters,
local producers, and women’s groups to sell online. More Ni-Vanuatu businesses and women vendors
and women-led community enterprises have joined, offering 250+ products online.


COVID assistance
Governments in the region offered stimulus packages for private sector with PTI assisting with freight.
The 2020 Pacific Islands Export Survey revealed freight costs was one of three barriers to exports faced
by Pacific businesses, which was worsened by shipping disruption linked to COVID-19.
PTI Australia and PTI China offered a COVID-19 Freight Assistance Package, while support for e-commerce
included lower costs for digital trade. This showed the importance of good logistics and the need to
manage investments across hard and soft infrastructure and cross-border connectivity.
PTI Australia’s freight assistance in 2020 offered grants up to AUD2,500 per enterprise on a 50/50 cost
share basis. PTI China provided financial support towards freight, packaging and trade show costs for
10 businesses from Fiji, Samoa, PNG, Tonga and Vanuatu to promote products at trade shows in China.
An analysis of PTI digital capabilities suggested areas to streamline service delivery and engage with
clients via a single PTI brand beyond COVID-19. A Digital Transformation Strategy will be completed in
2021 along with a PTI Network Strategic Plan, Annual Report and a common website. This will make it
easier for clients to access services from a PTI office or via a network.
For further information visit PTI Global Network (pacifictradeinvest.com)


Office of the Pacific Ocean Commissioner
Plans for a major focus on the world’s oceans in 2020 were derailed by COVID-19. 2020 was to feature
the 2nd UN Ocean Conference; the adoption of an international treaty on marine biodiversity; an Ocean
Conference in Palau; adoption of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework at the UN Convention
on Biological Diversity (CBD) COP15, and talks on the ocean-climate nexus at the UN climate summit
(UNFCCC COP26). Preparations were delayed, although some activities proceeded with changes.
The first cohort of the Pacific Ocean Finance Fellows completed a nine-month course. The course
aimed to increase capacity in ocean finance and ocean governance in Pacific Island governments and
communities.
In June, as part of World Ocean Day, SG and Pacific Ocean Commissioner, Dame Meg Taylor, said
COVID-19 had pushed back critical international negotiations on climate change and ocean governance.
With the delay to UNOC II, the Ocean Taskforce drafted the PIF Leaders Ocean Statement, where the
Leaders re-committed to their role as custodians of the ocean.
The OPOC developed a suite of publications including the Blue Pacific Ocean Report, seven ocean
finance reports, and a children’s book titled Our Sea of Islands, Our Blue Pacific. Released in January
2021, the illustrated children’s book builds awareness around the richness of our ocean heritage and our
obligation as custodians of the biggest ocean in the world.
The Blue Pacific Ocean Report, released in January 2021, provides an overview across different sectors in
the region; takes stock of progress on regional ocean policy implementation, and suggests some forward
looking strategies. The report also identifies key strategic gaps in implementing regional ocean policies

                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    41
-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

     and commitments, and the overall integrity of ocean governance in the Pacific region.
     The key message is that the implementation of ocean priorities across the region is at best “moderate
     positive progress”. This means that Forum Members are undertaking those priorities at a relatively
     slow pace. There is clear evidence of disjointed and uncoordinated ocean initiatives, particularly on
     documenting progress.
     Seven ocean finance reports were prepared for launch in February 2021. These reports cover areas
     such as taxes and subsidies and their alignment to ocean health objectives; finance models for marine
     protected areas; innovative insurance mechanisms for protecting ocean assets; ocean bond structures
     and accessibility, and financing models for different types of community managed marine areas.
     The reports add to the growing body of knowledge on increasing the amount and efficacy of finance for
     the sustainable use of our vast ocean. Dame Meg said that the ocean is more than just an ocean space - it
     interconnects people, places and prospects, “the ocean is in us all”.
     For more information visit www.opocbluepacific.net



     Office of the Regional Authorising Officer
     The cooperation with the EU and Pacific-Africa Caribbean Pacific region (PACP) is governed and defined
     by the current Cotonou Agreement. 2020 marks the end of the EDF funding cycle and of the Cotonou
     Agreement. The 11 EDF is the last cycle.



     Overview of the 11th EDF PRIP
             Priority Area                                                           Allocation: EUR,
                                                                                     Million
             Priority Area 1 - Regional economic integration (REI)
      1      2019         Pacific Regional     Integration    Support   programme               37
                          (PRISE)
             Priority Area 2 - Sustainable management of natural resources and the environment, and
             the management of waste
      2      2017         Pacific-European Union Marine Partnership Programme                   35
                          (PEUMP)

      3      2018         Pacific - European Union Waste Management Pro-                        17
                          gramme (PacWaste Plus);
             Priority Area 3 - Inclusive and accountable governance
      4      2018         Strengthening Public Finance Management and Gover-
                          nance in the Pacific Project
                                                                                                11
      5      2017         Tackling root causes of gender inequality and violence                13
                          against women in the Pacific

      6      2017         Technical Cooperation Facility/Strengthening of Re-                   7
                          gional Organisations
      7      2020         Health Support in response to COVID-19 in the Pacific                 22
             Investment Facility for the Pacific
      8      2017         Investment Facility for the Pacific (IFP)                             20
      9      2020         Investment Facility for the Pacific (IFP)                             35
                          TOTAL                                                                197




42   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

In response to COVID-19, two decisions in relation to 11th EDF PRIP were taken in 2020: 1) repurpose
EUR22 million of the IFP funds, for emergency support; and 2) review and reprioritise PRISE planned
activities.

The re-purposed funds were aligned with the Forum Leaders-led Pacific Humanitarian Pathway on
COVID-19 (PHP-C) decisions, including the World Health Organisation (WHO) Pacific-led JIMT mechanism
and its Action Plan. The Financing Agreement was signed in November 2020, benefiting PACP countries
including Timor Leste. WHO is the lead implementing agency with underlying components delivered by
SPC and the World Food Programme.




                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   43
-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

     GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT
     Management and Reform
     The PIF Secretariat continually reviews its internal policies and processes to ensure they are fit for purpose
     and meet, or exceed, best practice standards. This work is assisted by two subcommittees appointed by
     the PIF Secretariat’s governing body, the Forum Officials Committee (FOC).
     The FOC subcommittee on Audit and Risk focuses on accounting, risk management, financial reporting,
     the integrity of the draft Budget, and assessment of non-regular revenue.
     The FOC subcommittee on Prioritisation and Resourcing focuses on resourcing (human and financial)
     and prioritisation of the work programme in response to the COVID-19 crisis. One response was a
     discount on assessed membership contributions for the 2021 budget and work programme.
     As the three-year internal audit consultancy with Ernst and Young (Fiji) ended in December 2020, the
     Secretariat launched a competitive tender process to engage a new internal auditor for the next three
     years. KPMG (Fiji) was appointed the Secretariat’s internal auditor for the period 2021 – 2023.



     FOC Subcommittees
     Several other subcommittees were appointed by the FOC to help deliver on Forum Leader priorities.

     Table: FOC Sub Committees

            Name                       Membership/ Composition                                    Responsible
                                                                                                  Director
      1     Forum International        All Forum members                                          Director
            Engagement and                                                                        Governance
            Advocacy                                                                              &
                                                                                                  Engagement
      2     Regional Security          “Senior Officials level of all Forum Members and           Director
            Cooperation                Technical Expert Agencies”                                 Policy

      3     2050 Strategy for the      All Forum Members with one representative each             Director
            Blue Pacific Continent                                                                Policy

      4     Prioritisation &           “The FSPR will be open to all PIF Members and              Director
            Resourcing                 comprise at least five members, while recognising          Operations
                                       that participation in FSPR sessions is open to all
                                       PIF Members. Participating Member States will be
            (Name changed              required to nominate at least one representative to
            from Priorisation and      the FSPR who would be expected to participate in
            Funding)                   all FSPR meetings for any given year. “
      5     Audit and Risk Sub-        “..three members nominated by different member             Director
            Committee                  states. FOC shall appoint the members from                 Operations
                                       nominations received from Member states and
                                       designate a Chair of Sub-Committee

      6     Sea-Level Rise             All Forum Members represented by senior legal,             Director
            in relation to             policy and Foreign Affairs Officials (from capital         Governance
            International Law          and/or Members’ UN Permanent Missions)                     &
                                                                                                  Engagement




44   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

     Name                 Membership/ Composition                                 Responsible
                                                                                  Director
7    PHP-C Ministerial    “As agreed by Foreign Ministers, membership of          Director
     Action Group (MAG)   the MAG comprises of Australia, Fiji, Nauru, NZ,        Policy
                          RMI, Tuvalu & Vanuatu. The representative of the
                          Forum Chair will serve as the Chair of the MAG


8    PHP-C Regional       Senior Officials from Member countries                  Director
     Taskforce            represented on the MAG (details above) and              Policy
                          PIFS, SPC Pacific Community, OCO Oceania
                          Customs Organisation, PICP Pacific Islands Chiefs
                          of Police, PILON Pacific Islands Law Officers
                          Network, WHO World Health Organisation as Lead
                          of JIMT; UNOCHA UN Office for Coordination of
                          Humanitarian Affairs as lead of the PHT

9    COVID-19 Economic    Senior Officials Forum Members                          Director
     Recovery TF                                                                  Programmes
                                                                                  & Initiatives

10   The Nuclear Legacy   “Nominated representatives from relevant CROP           Director
     Taskforce            agencies namely the Pacific Community (SPC),            Governance
                          the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (PIFS), the       &
                          Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment         Engagement
                          Programme (SPREP) and the University of the
                          South Pacific (USP), and from Fiji, Kiribati, and the
                          Republic of the Marshall Islands.




11   The Specialist       The SSCR will comprise eight individual members         Director
     Sub-Committee on     who are citizens of Forum member or associate           Policy
     Regionalism          member countries. Each member will hold one of
                          the following allocated positions:
                          •	   An individual from a Melanesian country;
                          •	   An individual from a Micronesian country;
                          •	   An individual from a Polynesian country;
                          •	   An individual from Australia or New Zealand;
                          •	   An individual from a Smaller Island State;
                          •	   An individual from a civil society organisation
                               in the Pacific;
                          •	   An individual from a private sector organisation
                               in the Pacific; and
                          •	   The Secretary General (the permanent Chair of
                               CROP), as the SSCR’s Chair.




12   The Socio-Economic   “The Taskforce will consist of nominated                Director
     Impact Assessment    representatives from the relevant CROP agencies,        Policy
     Taskforce            and Forum Members who have expressed their
                          interest in serving on the Taskforce.
                          The Taskforce may co-opt other technical expert
                          agencies and relevant stakeholders to support its
                          work.”




                                           Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   45
-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

     PIFS MANAGEMENT
     Dame Meg Taylor, a national of Papua New Guinea, is the
     first woman to hold the post of Secretary General at the
     Forum. Dame Meg began her professional life as Private
     Secretary to Chief Minister Michael Somare during self-
     government of Papua New Guinea, and then during his
     tenure as Prime Minister at the independence of Papua
     New Guinea. She has served in previous public, private
     and diplomatic positions including as Papua New Guinea’s
     Ambassador to Washington DC. She was appointed
     to the post of Vice President and Compliance Advisor
     Ombudsman (CAO) of the World Bank Group in 1999,
     setting up CAO, a key part of the governance structure
     of the World Bank Group. Dame Meg is also the Pacific
     Ocean Commissioner, advocating for the secure future
     of Pacific people based on the sustainable development,
     management and conservation of the Pacific Ocean and
     its resources. She also serves on the Boards of a number of
     companies and organizations.




     Dr. Filimon Manoni was appointed Deputy Secretary
     General in May 2020 and was previously the PIFS
     International Legal Adviser from December 2018. Dr.
     Manoni is the former Attorney General for the Government
     of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, providing both legal
     and policy analysis on regional and international matters,
     inclusive of regional and international treaty negotiations
     and agreements. Prior to that, Dr. Manoni served as a Legal
     Adviser at the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency (FFA).




     Mr Zarak Khan has been the Director of Programmes and
     Initiatives since June 2019. His role seeks to improve the lives
     of Pacific Islanders through regional economic integration
     and connectivity in the Pacific, building sustainable and
     inclusive growth. He was the Fijian Consul General and Trade
     Commissioner to Australia and New Zealand based in Sydney,
     Australia from 2016-2019. He was the PIFS Trade Policy Advisor
     from 2011–2016. Mr Khan holds postgraduate qualifications in
     Management, Public Administration and Economics from the
     University of the South Pacific in Suva, Fiji.




46   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

Mr Apaitia Veiogo was appointed Director Operations in
August 2020. Mr Veiogo is an experienced senior financial
executive from Fiji, and joined PIFS from Oceania Hospitals Pte
Limited where he was Acting General Manager. Prior to this,
Mr Veiogo served for 6 years as the Chief Financial Officer for
Kumul Consolidated Holdings (KCH) in Port Moresby, Papua
New Guinea, a state owned corporation with an asset base
valued over USD2 billion and holding company for eleven
major PNG state owned enterprises. Prior to this he also held
senior executive positions in private and public sector entities
in Fiji and PNG. Mr Veiogo holds a Bachelor of Business Degree
from the University of New England, Australia. He is a member
of the Fiji Institute of Accountants, member of the Certified
Practicing Accountants, PNG and an associate member of the
Australian Society of Certified Practicing Accountants.




Mr Sione Tekiteki was appointed as the Director
Governance & Engagement in 2017. He has worked for the
Forum Secretariat since 2013 in adviser level roles. Prior to
working for the Forum Secretariat, Mr Tekiteki was the Clerk
of the Legislative Assembly of Tonga during the country’s
political reform processes. His experience and knowledge
relate to stakeholder engagement, political and democratic
governance, public law, and institutional strengthening. Mr
Tekiteki holds a Bachelor of Commerce, Bachelor of Laws and
a Master of Laws (Hons) from the University of Auckland.




Mr. Paki Ormsby has been Director of Policy since September
2017 and is responsible for a range of international and
regional security and social policy initiatives. He previously
worked for the New Zealand Ministry of Health as Deputy
Director, Critical Projects. He was a Private Secretary to the
NZ Minister of Defence before being seconded in 2007 to the
NZ Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. A 2003 recipient of a
New Zealand Government Freyberg Scholarship, Paki studied
defence and strategic studies at the Australian National
University. He holds a Post Graduate Diploma in International
Relations and Security Studies, and a Bachelor of Political
Science from the University of Waikato, New Zealand.




                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   47
-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

                                 Senior Management Salary Band Levels


      Position                                                First Name   Last Name   Band

      Secretary General                                       Meg          Taylor       18

      Deputy Secretary General                                Filimon      Manoni       16

      Director Policy                                         Paki         Ormsby       15

      Director Governance & Engagement                        Sione        Tekiteki     15

      Director Programmes & Initiatives                       Zarak        Khan         15

      Director Operations                                     Apaitia      Veiogo       14




48   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

2020 FINANCIAL STATEMENT (FJD)
REVENUE: $20, 337, 303


Other contributions: $2, 948, 520




Voluntary Contributions:
$10, 713, 128




Contribution from Members: $6, 675, 655



EXPENSES: $18,499,927
                                                                                     Management of the
                                                                                 Secretariat: $3,493,433



                                                                                              Economic
                                                                                Governance: $3,363,865




                                                                                Political Governance and
                                                                                   Security: $2,693,436



                                                                               Strategic Partnerships and
                                                                               Coordination: $2,012,339


                                                                          Corporate Services: $6,936,854



 Total Revenue: $20, 337, 303       - Expenses: $18,499,927
                                             Surplus of income over expenditure: $1,837,376



                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    49
-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

     Audited
     Financial
     Statements
     2020




50   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

                Our Pacific Vision is for a region of peace, harmony,
                security, social inclusion, and prosperity, so that all Pacific
                people can lead free, healthy, and productive lives.
                Values
                We value and depend upon the integrity of our vast ocean
                and our island resources.
                We treasure the diversity and heritage of the Pacific and
                seek an inclusive future in which cultures, traditions and
                religious beliefs are valued, honoured and developed.
                We embrace good governance, the full observance of
                democratic values, the rule of law, the defence and
                promotion of all human rights, gender equality, and
                commitment to just societies.
                We seek peaceful, safe, and stable communities and
                countries, ensuring full security and wellbeing for the
                peoples of the Pacific.
                We support full inclusivity, equity and equality for all
                people of the Pacific.
                We strive for effective, open and honest relationships and
                inclusive and enduring partnerships based on mutual
                accountability and respect with each other, within our
                sub-regions, within our region, and beyond.
                These Pacific regional values will guide all our policy-
                making and implementation.
                Our principal objectives are:
                   Sustainable development that combines economic,
                   social and cultural development in ways that improve
                   livelihoods and well-being and use the environment
                   sustainably;
                   Economic growth that is inclusive and equitable;
                   Strengthened governance, legal, financial and
                   administrative systems; and
                   Security that ensures stable, safe human,
                   environmental and political conditions for all.

                                        Framework for Pacific Regionalism




                                             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   51
Financial Statements                          -i-                                 31 December 2020
-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

         Table of Contents

         Secreta                                           ............................................................................................... 1
                                                             ............................................................................................. 2
         General Fund Statement of Comprehensive Income ............................................................. 5
         Statement of Financial Position ............................................................................................. 6
         Statement of Changes in Funds.............................................................................................. 7
         Statement of Cash Flows ....................................................................................................... 8
         Notes to the Financial Statements .......................................................................................... 9
         1.        Reporting entity .................................................................................................................... 9
         2.        Statement of significant accounting policies ........................................................................ 9
         3.        Contributions from Members                      General Fund................................................................... 21
         4.        Other income             General Fund ........................................................................................... 21
         5.        General Fund             Expenditure .............................................................................................. 22
         6.        Cash and cash equivalents ................................................................................................. 23
         7.        Other financial asset at amortised cost.............................................................................. 24
         8.        Inventories.......................................................................................................................... 24
         9.        Receivables           Members...................................................................................................... 24
         10.       Other receivables and prepayments ................................................................................... 24
         11.       Property, plant and equipment........................................................................................... 25
         12.       Intangible assets................................................................................................................. 26
         13.       Right-of-use-Asset and Lease Liabilities ............................................................................ 27
         14.       Current payables and accruals .......................................................................................... 28
         15.       Provisions .......................................................................................................................... 29
         16.       Contributions received in advance                       Trust Fund............................................................... 29
         17.       Deferred income General Fund ...................................................................................... 30
         18.       Commitments and contingent liabilities ............................................................................. 30
         19.       Related party ...................................................................................................................... 31
         20.       Risk management policies .................................................................................................. 32
         21.       Events subsequent to year end ........................................................................................... 36
         Disclaimer ..................................................................................................................................... 37
         Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ............................................................ 38
         Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ............................................................ 39
         Supplementary Information ................................................................................................. 40

52        Financial
     Pacific Islands Statements
                     Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report- ii -                                                                 31 December 2020
-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

I am pleased to present the Secretariat   financial statements and independent auditors report for the
year ended 31 December 2020.

During the year, we expended FJD18.1m from General Fund and FJD12.5m from Trust Fund, while
our total cash and investment holdings at year end amounted to FJD38.0m.

I remain conscious of the responsibility entrusted to the Secretariat by Members of the Pacific Islands
Forum, and by our development partners, to manage such a substantial level of funding. I therefore
reaffirm our commitment to ensure that these financial statements provide an accountable and
transparent summary of the Secretariat                               2020 financial year.

In my opinion:

(a)     the accompanying General fund statement of comprehensive income is drawn up so as to give
        a true and fair view of the results of the Secretariat for the year ended 31 December 2020;

(b)     the accompanying statement of financial position is drawn up so as to give a true and fair view
        of the state of the Secretariat                         2020;

(c)     the accompanying statement of changes in funds is drawn up so as to give a true and fair view
        of the movement in funds of the Secretariat for the year ended 31 December 2020; and

(d)     the accompanying statement of cash flows is drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the
        cash flows of the Secretariat for the year ended 31 December 2020.

The continuous impact of COVID-19 on our overall operations gave the Secretariat an opportunity to
review, re-design and re-
priorities. As Fiji recorded its first COVID-19 case on the 19 March 2020, the Secretariat went into a
period of lockdown from 20 March to 29 June 2020, where majority of the staff moved to remote
working modalities and an increasing number of meetings held virtually. The operational expenditure
of the whole Secretariat was reviewed, taking into consideration the ongoing impact of COVID-19. This
review resulted in a 12.7% reduction in total expenditure recorded for 2020 compared to 2019 levels
emanating from reductions in travel, workshops, and meeting costs, while capitalising on the critical
role that technology offers, as borders remain closed. As we continue to deliver work programmes, the
Secretariat believes it has sufficient financial resources at this time to continue its operations for the
foreseeable future and it will continue to assess the impact of COVID-19 and challenges on the
Secretariat's work programme into the future years.

Dated at Suva this      21          day of      May               2021



                                __________________________
                                     Meg Taylor, DBE
                                      Secretary General




Financial Statements                            -1-                                31 December 2020

                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report       53
-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                     2




                    Independent Auditor’s Report

                    To the Members of Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat

                    Report on the audit of the financial statements

                    Opinion

                    We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (the
                    ‘Secretariat’), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2020, and the
                    general fund statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in funds and statement of
                    cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
                    significant accounting policies.

                    In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
                    position of the Secretariat as at 31 December 2020, and of its financial performance and cash
                    flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.

                    Basis for Opinion

                    We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our
                    responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the
                    Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.

                    We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
                    basis for our opinion.

                    Independence

                    We are independent of the Secretariat in accordance with the ethical requirements of the
                    International Ethics Standards Board for Accountant’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
                    (IESBA Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Fiji, and we have fulfilled
                    our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.

                    Other information
                    Members and management are responsible for the other information. The other information
                    comprises the information included in the Secretariat’s Annual Report for the year ended
                    31 December 2020 (but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report
                    thereon).

                    Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not
                    express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

                    In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
                    information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
                    inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
                    appears to be materially misstated.

                    If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
                    other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard,
                    except that not all other information was available to us at the date of our signing.

                    PricewaterhouseCoopers, Level 8 Civic Tower, 272 Victoria Parade, Suva, Fiji.
                    GPO Box 200, Suva, Fiji.
                    T: (679)3313955 / 3315199, F: (679) 3300947
                    PricewaterhouseCoopers is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.




54   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

                                                                                                         3




Responsibilities of Members and Management for the Financial Statements

Members and management are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and for such
internal control as the members and management determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the members and management are responsible for
assessing the Secretariat’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
members and management either intend to liquidate the Secretariat or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The members and management are responsible for overseeing the Secretariat’s financial reporting
process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

 • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due
   to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain
   audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
   not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
   error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
   override of internal control.

 • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
   procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
   opinion on the effectiveness of the Secretariat’s internal control.

 • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of
   accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the members and management.

 • Conclude on the appropriateness of the members and managements use of the going concern
   basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty
   exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Secretariat’s ability
   to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are
   required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial
   statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
   based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
   events or conditions may cause the Secretariat to cease to continue as a going concern.




                                         Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report              55
-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                              4




                     • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including
                       the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represents the underlying transactions
                       and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

                    We communicate with members and management regarding, among other matters, the planned
                    scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in
                    internal control that we identify during our audit.

                    Restriction on Use

                    This report is made solely to the Secretariat’s Members, as a body. Our audit work has been
                    undertaken so that we might state to the Members those matters we are required to state to them
                    in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
                    accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Secretariat and the Members as a body,
                    for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.




                    PricewaterhouseCoopers
                    Chartered Accountants




                    Kaushick Chandra

                    27 May 2021
                    Suva, Fiji




56   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

General Fund Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020




                                                             Note                            2020                 2019
                                                                                             FJD                  FJD

 Income

 Contributions from Members                                    3                       6,675,655            5,881,073
 Interest income                                                                          74,271              267,258
 Recoveries income                                                                     1,831,400            1,706,000
 Administration fees received                                                          1,042,849            1,045,651
 Other income                                                  4                      10,713,128           10,780,196
                                                                                      20,337,303           19,680,178

 Expenditure

 Economic Governance                                          5(a)                     3,363,865            4,153,832
 Political Governance and Security                            5(b)                     2,693,436            2,995,913
 Strategic Partnerships and Coordination                      5(c)                     2,012,339            2,642,635
 Corporate Services                                           5(d)                     6,936,854            6,936,204
 Management of the Secretariat                                5(e)                     3,493,433            3,716,391
                                                                                      18,499,927           20,444,975

 Net foreign exchange loss                                    2v                                  -          (356,708)

 Surplus of income over expenditure                                                     1,837,376          (1,121,505)




This statement is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial statements set out
on pages 9 to 36.

Financial Statements                                -5-                                  31 December 2020




                                                          Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                  57
-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

     Statement of Financial Position
     As at 31 December 2020
                                                                      Note                2020                  2019
                                                                                          FJD                   FJD
       Current assets
       Cash and cash equivalents                                        6          35,428,086            27,372,204
       Other financial assets at amortised cost                         7           2,593,348             2,477,893
       Inventories                                                      8               7,998                 9,732
       Receivables - Members                                            9             417,405               131,993
       Other receivables and prepayments                               10             548,487               494,074
       Total current assets                                                        38,995,324            30,485,896

       Non-current assets
       Property, plant and equipment                                  11            5,610,563              5,308,243
       Right-of-use asset                                            13(a)            355,941                461,974
       Intangible assets                                              12              133,893                      -
       Total non-current assets                                                     6,100,397              5,770,217

       Total assets                                                                45,095,721            36,256,113

       Current liabilities
       Current payables and accruals                                  14            2,227,263             2,300,927
       Lease liabilities                                             13(b)            106,556               102,093
       Provisions                                                     15              301,043               301,043
       Contributions received in advance - Trust Fund                 16           28,708,587            16,752,098
       Deferred Income - General Fund                                 17              274,564             4,804,805
       Total current liabilities                                                   31,618,013            24,260,966

       Non-current liabilities
       Lease liabilities                                             13(b)            261,542                368,098
       Total non-current liabilities                                                  261,542                368,098

       Total Liabilities                                                           31,879,555            24,629,064

       Net assets                                                                  13,216,166            11,627,049

       Accumulated and reserve funds
       General fund                                                                 9,540,128             9,355,533
       Exchange translation reserve                                                         -             (985,316)
       Capital reserve                                                              2,251,860             2,500,119
       Special fund reserve                                                         1,424,178               756,713
       Total accumulated and reserve funds                                         13,216,166            11,627,049

     For the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat,

     _________________________                                     ____________________________
     Meg Taylor, DBE                                               Apaitia Veiogo
     Secretary General                                             Director Operations
     This statement is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial statements
     set out on pages 9 to 36.

     Financial Statements                               -6-                                  31 December 2020




58   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Statement of Changes in Funds
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
                                                                                    2020                  2019
                                                                                    FJD                   FJD

 General Fund

 Balance at the beginning of the year                                         9,355,533           10,877,043
 Surplus/(deficit) of income over expenditure                                 1,837,376           (1,121,505)
 Transfer to Exchange Translation Reserve                                             -               356,708
 Transfer to close Exchange Translation Reserve                               (985,316)                     -
 Transfer to Special Fund Reserve                                             (667,465)             (756,713)
 Balance at the end of the year                                               9,540,128             9,355,533



 Exchange Translation Reserve

 Balance at the beginning of the year                                         (985,316)              (628,608)
 Transfer to General Fund                                                             -              (356,708)
 Transfer to close Exchange Translation Reserve *                  2v           985,316                      -
 Balance at the end of the year                                                       -              (985,316)


 Capital Reserve

 Balance at the beginning of the year                                         2,500,119             4,145,562
 Purchase of Trust Fund assets                                                   16,686                26,002
 Reversal of leasehold land revaluation (refer note 11)                               -           (1,393,472)
 Depreciation on revalued assets and PPE used for Projects                    (264,945)             (277,973)
 Balance at the end of the year                                               2,251,860             2,500,119


 Special Fund Reserve

 Balance at the beginning of the year                                         756,713                       -
 Transfer from General Fund                                                   667,465                 756,713
 Balance at the end of the year                                             1,424,178                 756,713




This statement is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial statements
set out on pages 9 to 36.




Financial Statements                               -7-                                  31 December 2020




                                                     Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report               59
-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

     Statement of Cash Flows
     For the year ended 31 December 2020
                                                                      Note                 2020                  2019
                                                                                           FJD                   FJD
      Cash flow from operating activities

      Contributions from members and donors                                         12,432,521               21,897,774
      Trust Fund income                                                             23,686,648               17,016,436
      Programme and project costs                                                 (12,228,604)             (19,611,277)
      Other operational costs                                                     (14,645,986)             (18,290,419)
      Interest received                                                                 88,594                  287,128
      Interest on leases                                                              (24,545)                 (28,821)
      Rental income                                                                    207,277                  226,213

      Net cash flow generated from operating activities                              9,515,905                1,497,034

      Cash flow from investing activities

      Proceed from disposal of property, plant and equipment                             16,357                   2,278
      Payments for property, plant and equipment                                    (1,110,942)             (1,315,042)
      Movement in other financial asset at amortised cost                             (115,455)               1,391,980

      Net cash flow (used in)/ generated from investing
       activities                                                                   (1,210,040)                  79,216

      Cash flows from financing activities
      Repayment of principal lease liability                                          (102,092)                (97,816)
      Net cash flow used in financing activities                                      (102,092)                (97,816)

      Effect on exchange rate changes                                                 (147,891)               (422,500)

      Net increase in cash held                                                      8,055,882                1,055,935

      Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                        27,372,204              26,316,269

      Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year                  6           35,428,086              27,372,204




     This statement is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial statements
     set out on pages 9 to 36.



     Financial Statements                               -8-                                  31 December 2020




60   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

1.        Reporting entity
          The Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat     Secretariat is domiciled in Fiji. The address of the
          Secretariat                                               The Secretariat is an international
          organisation established by treaty, signed and ratified by the governments of the eighteen
          member countries.
          The principal activity of the Secretariat during the course of the financial year was to facilitate,
          develop and maintain cooperation and consultation between member governments on economic
          development, trade, energy, legal, political, security and such other matters as the Pacific Islands
          Forum may direct. There were no significant changes in the nature of this activity during the
          year.
2.        Statement of significant accounting policies
          The significant policies, which have been adopted in the preparation of these financial
          statements, are noted below. Certain comparative amounts have been reclassified or
                                                      presentation.

          New standards

          A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for
          annual periods beginning after 1 January 2020 and have not been applied in preparing these
          financial statements. The company is yet to assess the impact of these standards and intends to
          adopt the standards no later than the accounting period in which the standards become effective.

           Title             Key Requirements                                                      Effective
                                                                                                   Date
           COVID-19-         As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, rent concessions have been 1 June 2020
           related Rent      granted to lessees. Such concessions might take a variety of forms,
           Concessions-      including payment holidays and deferral of lease payments. In May
           Amendments        2020, the IASB made an amendment to IFRS 16 Leases which
           to IFRS 16        provides lessees with an option to treat qualifying rent concessions
                             in the same way as they would if they were not lease modifications.
                             In many cases, this will result in accounting for the concessions as
                             variable lease payments in the period in which they are granted.
                             Entities applying the practical expedients must disclose this fact,
                             whether the expedient has been applied to all qualifying rent
                             concessions or, if not, information about the nature of the contracts
                             to which it has been applied, as well as the amount recognised in
                             profit or loss arising from the rent concessions.




Financial Statements                             -9-                                31 December 2020




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report        61
-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
      2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
               New Standards (continued)
                Classification The narrow-scope amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial                 1 January
                of Liabilities Statements clarify that liabilities are classified as either current or        2022
                as Current or  non-current, depending on the rights that exist at the end of the              [possibly
                Non-current-   reporting period. Classification is unaffected by the expectations of          deferred to
                Amendments     the entity or events after the reporting date (e.g. the receipt of a           1 January
                to IAS 1       waiver or a breach of covenant). The amendments also clarify what              2023]


                                   The amendments could affect the classification of liabilities,
                                   particularly for entities that previously
                                   intentions to determine classification and for some liabilities that can
                                   be converted into equity. They must be applied retrospectively in
                                   accordance with the normal requirements in IAS 8 Accounting
                                   Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. In May 2020,
                                   the IASB issued an Exposure Draft proposing to defer the effective
                                   date of the amendments to 1 January 2023.

                 Property, Plant   The amendment to IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment (PP&E) 1 January
                 and               prohibits an entity from deducting from the cost of an item of PP&E 2022
                 Equipment:        any proceeds received from selling items produced while the entity
                 Proceeds          is preparing the asset for its intended use. It also clarifies that an
                 before
                 intended use -    assesses the technical and physical performance of the asset. The
                 Amendments        financial performance of the asset is not relevant to this assessment.
                 to IAS 16
                                   Entities must disclose separately the amounts of proceeds and costs

                                   ordinary activities.

                 Onerous           The amendment to IAS 37 clarifies that the direct costs of fulfilling 1 January
                 Contracts-        a contract include both the incremental costs of fulfilling the contract 2022
                 Cost              and an allocation of other costs directly related to fulfilling contracts.
                 of Fulfilling a   Before recognising a separate provision for an onerous contract, the
                 Contract          entity recognises any impairment loss that has occurred on assets
                 Amendments        used in fulfilling the contract.
                 to IAS 37
                 Annual            The following improvements were finalised in May 2020:                     1 January
                 Improvements                                                                                 2022
                 to IFRS              IFRS 9 Financial Instruments clarifies which fees should be
                 Standards            included in the 10% test for derecognition of financial liabilities.
                 2018 2020            IFRS 16 Leases amendment of illustrative example 13 to
                                      remove the illustration of payments from the lessor relating to
                                      leasehold improvements, to remove any confusion about the
                                      treatment of lease incentives.

      Financial Statements                            - 10 -                             31 December 2020




62   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
(a)       Statement of compliance
          The financial statements of the Secretariat have been drawn up in accordance with International
          Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) adopted by the International Accounting Standards
          Board and the provisions of the Financial Regulations of the Secretariat.
          The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Secretary General on 21 May 2021.
(b)       COVID-19 impact and going concern
          With the unprecedented situation brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Pacific region
          is faced with a health crisis, an economic crisis and the ongoing climate crisis. Given the current
          economic situation of the Member States, the Secretariat's resources have been reviewed, re-
          prioritised and work programmes streamlined of its working modalities to ensure that it
          continues to support its Member States in progressing and achieving the collective regional
          agenda.
          In response to the uncertainty around economic recovery, the Secretariat put through a proposal
          in the 2021 budget for a 30% discount on assessed membership contributions for the years 2021
          to 2023, to cushion the impacts of the pandemic. This proposal was approved by FOC in its
          meeting on 10th December 2020.
          The Secretariat continues to explore, facilitate and expedite transition to more innovative
          modalities of work, including building on digital capacities and technologies to progress its
          regional priorities.
          Despite the challenges of COVID-19, the Secretariat’s experiences as an organisation
          in 2020 have formed the development of the 2021-2023 budget and work programme which
          will see the Secretariat operating with a reduced expenditure budget in line with the projected
          reductions in revenue from Assessed Membership Contributions.
          With the streamlined work programmes, the Secretariat believes it has sufficient financial
          resources at this time to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and it will
          continue to assess the impact of COVID-19 and challenges on the Secretariat's work programme
          into the future years.
(c)       Basis of measurement
          The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of historical costs and do not take into
          account changing money values or current valuations of non-current assets. The accounting
          policies have been consistently applied and, except where there is a change in the accounting
          policy, are consistent with those of the prior years.

(d)       Fund accounting
          The Secretariat has adopted fund accounting system for individual grants or donations for
          specified projects, the Secretariat has adopted a fund accounting system. Accordingly, it is
          necessary to establish a separate fund to record the amount received, expenditure incurred and
          the net balance of the funds available to be carried forward into the next financial period. The
          identification of funds is maintained within the accounting system thus providing the necessary
          control to ensure that each fund is used only for the purpose for which funds are received.

Financial Statements                            - 11 -                             31 December 2020



                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report          63
-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

     Notes to the Financial Statements
     For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

     2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
     (e)       Functional and presentation currency
               The financial statements are presented in Fiji dollars, rounded to the nearest dollar.

     (f)       Use of estimates and judgements
               The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to
               make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies
               and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ
               from these estimates.
               Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to
               accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any
               future periods affected.
               Information about critical judgments in applying accounting policies that have the most
               significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements is included in the
               following notes:
               Note 2(h) Property, plant and equipment
               Note 2(i) Intangible assets
               Note 2(u) Leases
               Note 2(p) Receivables

     (g)       Foreign currency transactions
               Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Fiji dollars at exchange rates at the dates
               of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the
               reporting date are translated into Fiji dollars at the exchange rate at that date. The foreign
               currency gains or losses on translation are recognised in profit or loss.
     (h)       Property, plant and equipment
               Recognition and measurement
               Property, plant and equipment purchased from the General Fund are stated at cost less
               accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
               Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of
               self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly
               attributable to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use, the costs of
               dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on which they are located and
               capitalised borrowing costs. Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related
               equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment.
               When parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
               accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
               Property, plant and equipment purchased from the Trust Fund are expensed at the time of
               purchase. These assets, together with donated assets, are capitalised with the corresponding
               credit reflected in the Capital Reserve.
               All additions are at VAT inclusive prices.
     Financial Statements                            - 12 -                              31 December 2020



64   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
(h)       Property, plant and equipment (continued)
          When assets are retired or otherwise disposed of, the related cost and accumulated depreciation
          is removed from the accounts and any resultant profit or loss is taken to the General Fund
          statement of profit or loss.
          For donated assets and assets previously expensed in Contributions Received in Advance
          Trust Fund (note 16), a transfer is also made from the Capital Reserve which exactly matches
          the net cost of donated or trust fund assets disposed of during the period. Gains or losses from
          the sale of donated or trust funded assets are credited as income or debited as expenditure in the
          General Fund statement of profit or loss.
          Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by
          comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and
          equipment.

          Subsequent expenditure
          The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
          carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefit embodied within
          the part will flow to the Secretariat and its cost can be measured reliably. The cost of the day-
          to-day servicing of plant and equipment is recognised in statement of profit or loss as incurred.
          Depreciation
          In order to ensure neutrality of donated assets and assets previously expensed in Contributions
          Received in Advance Trust Fund (note 16), a transfer is made from the Capital Reserve
          benefit realised from donated/trust fund assets that exactly offsets the depreciation of those
          assets.
          Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis on all property, plant and equipment other than

          value, over their estimated useful lives.
          Major depreciation periods are:
          Buildings                                      40 years
          Equipment                                3      5 years
          Furniture and fittings                   3      5 years
          Motor vehicles                                  4 years

          Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end
          and adjusted if appropriate.




Financial Statements                            - 13 -                             31 December 2020



                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report        65
-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

     Notes to the Financial Statements
     For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
     2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
     (i)       Intangible assets
               IT software
               IT software which is purchased, developed, or implemented, is recorded at historical cost and
               is amortised over its estimated useful life. The rates used are:
                 Computer software                             10%

     (j)        Revenue recognition
               Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. The
               Secretariat recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product or service to a customer.
               Revenue is presented net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.

               Revenue is recognised in the financial statements for the major activities as follows:
                Revenue type        Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and
                                    significant payment terms
                 Contribution from This represents contribution received from the member countries.
                 members           These funds are used by the Secretariat in delivering on its principal
                                   activities. Contribution from members are recognised on an annual
                                   accrual basis and the performance obligations are satisfied over time.
                                   Revenue is measured at the transaction price (membership
                                   contributions) agreed under the membership agreement.
                                   Any membership contribution received in advance of the year in


                 Interest income      Interest income represents interest income earned on the term deposits
                                      based on the maturity and the interest rate and is recognised as income
                                      as it is accrued.
                 Recoveries income This relates to the overhead recoveries which are recognised as
                                   income in the General Fund statement of profit or loss and an expense
                                   in Contributions Received in advance         Trust Fund (note 16).
                                   Recoveries income is recognised over time as the projects are carried
                                   out and the performance obligations are satisfied.

                                      Revenue is measured at the fixed transaction price (overhead rate as

                 Administration       This relates to the fees received by the Secretariat for administering
                 fees received        projects, which are recognised as income in the General Fund
                                      statement of profit or loss and an expense in Contributions Received
                                      in advance Trust Fund (note 16). Administration fees are recognised
                                      over time as the performance obligation are satisfied.

                                      Revenue is measured at the transaction price (administration fees
                                      rates) as agreed under the donor agreements.

     Financial Statements                           - 14 -                             31 December 2020


66   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
(j)       Revenue recognition (continued)
           Other income        Other income represents income earned from voluntary contribution
                               from member countries, rental of premises, donor reimbursements,
                               hire of conferences, gain/loss from disposal of property, plant and
                               equipment and other miscellaneous income.

                                Other income is recognised on receipt except where a department of
                                the Secretariat has arranged for a Secretariat invoice to be raised to a
                                third party; the revenue associated with these invoices is recognised
                                when the goods/services have been provided.

                                Revenue is measured at the transaction prices (voluntary
                                contributions, rental rates and prices) agreed under the membership
                                agreements, lease agreements and the Secretariats price manual
                                respectively. Payment terms is 30 days.
           Donor funds          General Fund
                                Revenue is measured at the transaction prices (donor grants) agreed
                                under the donor agreements.

                                Trust Fund
                                Donor funds received with specific end purpose are recognised as
                                revenue when the conditions attached to the funding have been met
                                and performance obligation satisfied. Until those conditions are met,
                                receipts

                                expenses incurred are recognised in statement of profit or loss on a
                                systematic basis in the same periods in which the income is
                                recognised.

(k)       Expenses
          Expenses are recognised on when the service is performed.

(l)       Income tax
          The Secretariat is exempt from income tax by virtue of Article XI of the Agreement Establishing
          the Secretariat, which is signed and ratified by the Fiji Government, and Section 6(1) of the
          Diplomatic Privileges and immunities Act 1971.

(m)       Cash and cash equivalents
          Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, cash at bank and short-term deposits with
          original terms of three months or less.
          Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Secretariat
          management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the
          statement of cash flows.

Financial Statements                          - 15 -                              31 December 2020



                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report       67
-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

      2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)

      (n)       Other financial asset at amortised cost
                Other financials asset at amortised cost comprises of term deposits with original terms greater
                than three months and are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

      (o)       Inventories
                Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories
                is based on the weighted average principle, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the
                inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
                existing location and condition.
                Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the
                estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
      (p)       Receivables
                Receivables, including Member contributions are recognised initially at fair value and
                subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less allowance for
                impairment losses.
                Receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that
                there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, significant difficulties
                of the debtor and default or delinquency in payments.
                Impairment losses on receivables are presented as net impairment losses within operating profit.
                Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against same line item.

      (q)       Other receivables
                Other receivables including prepayments, interest receivable, sundry debtors and recoverable
                expenditure are initially recognised at fair value.

      (r)       Employee entitlements
                Short-term benefits
                Short-term employee benefits comprising of annual leave and entitlement to Fiji National
                Provident Fund are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service
                is provided.

      (s)       Payables
                Commitments at year end include commitments for goods supplied and services rendered during
                the year, and any other commitments entered into or liability incurred but not discharged, at the
                close of the year.




      Financial Statements                           - 16 -                             31 December 2020



68   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

2.        Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)

(t)       Impairment
          The carrying amounts of the Secretariat

          recoverable amounts are estimated at each balance date. An impairment loss is recognised
          whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating amount exceeds its recoverable
          amount. All impairment losses are recognised in the statement of profit or loss.

(u)       Leases
          As a lessee
          The Secretariat recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the operating lease
          commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the
          initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the
          commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle
          and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is
          located, less any lease incentives received.
          The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
          commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the
          end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on the
          same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is
          periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain re-measurements of
          the lease liability.
          The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not
          paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that

          Secretariat uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
          Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis.
          Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments:

             - fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives
               receivable
             - variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate
             - the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that
               option, and
             - payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee
               exercising that option.
          The Secretariat does not have leases which contain the amounts expected to be payable by the
          lessee under residual value guarantees.




Financial Statements                           - 17 -                              31 December 2020



                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report          69
-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

     Notes to the Financial Statements
     For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
     2.       Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
     (u)       Leases (continued)
               As a lessee (continued)
               The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that rate can be
                                                                                  -of-use assets are measured at
               cost comprising the following:
               -    the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability
               -    any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives
                    received
               -    any initial direct costs, and
               -    Restoration costs.
               Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a
               straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term
               of 12 months or less.

               Cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liabilities are presented as cash flows from
               financing activities. Cash payments for the interest portion are presented as cash flows from
               operating activities, consistent with presentation of other interest payments. Short-term lease
               payments, payments for leases of low-value assets and variable lease payments that are not
               included in the measurement of the lease liabilities are presented as cash flows from operating
               activities.
               Critical judgements in determining rates for discounting future lease payments. Management
               applied judgment in selecting an appropriate rate to discount the remaining future lease
               payments when determining lease liabilities under IFRS 16.

     (v)      Exchange Translation Reserves

               Exchange Translation Reserve in accordance with the Schedule to the Finance Regulation, is the
               portion of the General Reserve that relates to consolidated unrealised foreign exchange gains or
               losses to separately account for foreign exchange movements from operation. This reserve is
               restricted to genuine foreign exchange gains or losses on transactions, projects and bank
               balances. The levels of the Reserve is reviewed annually as part of the budget preparation with
               the transfer of funds from the General Reserves to cover any project shortfalls. With the approval
               from Forum Officials Committee meeting in 2020, the exchange translation reserve has been
               closed and the balance from 2019 transferred to General Fund.

     (w)      Special Fund Reserve

               A Special Fund Reserve was setup in 2019 to quarantine net administrative fees or net
               management fees received on or after 1 January 2019 after offsetting project costs incurred
               directly in relation to administering of funds. These direct costs include the positions of staff
               directly required to carry out Extra Budget work in Corporate Services and will include any
               other cost of management of Trust Fund deemed appropriate by the Secretariat. The net
               administrative fee or net management fees would be carried into the General Fund Reserve and
               then transferred to Special Reserves.
     Financial Statements                            - 18 -                              31 December 2020



70   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
2.      Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)
(x)     Financial instruments
         Financial assets

          (i)     Classification
                  The Secretariat classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
                  those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through profit or loss or through
                  OCI), and those to be measured at amortised cost.

                  statements and the contractual terms of the cash flows.

                  held to maturity investments, receivables from members and other receivables.
         (ii)     Recognition and measurement
                  Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date the date on
                  which the Secretariat commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are
                  derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from them have expired or where they
                  have been transferred and the Secretariat has also transferred substantially all risks and
                  rewards of ownership.
                  A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following conditions
                  and is not designated as at fair value through profit or loss:
                  -    it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect
                       contractual cash flows; and
                  -    its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments
                       of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
          (iii)   Impairment of financial assets
                  The Secretariat assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses associated
                  with its financial assets measured at amortised cost. The impairment methodology
                  applied depends on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk.

          Financial liabilities
         (i)      Classification and subsequent measurement
                  In both the current and prior period, financial liabilities are classified as subsequently
                  measured at amortised costs, except for:
                  -    Financial liabilities arising from the transfer of financial assets which did not qualify
                       for de-recognition, whereby a financial liability is recognised for the consideration
                       received for the transfer. In subsequent periods, the Secretariat recognises any
                       expense incurred on the financial liability; and
                  -    Financial guarantee contacts and loan commitments.




Financial Statements                              - 19 -                              31 December 2020



                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report          71
-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

     Notes to the Financial Statements
     For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
     2.      Statement of significant accounting policies (continued)

     (x)     Financial instruments (continued)
              Financial liabilities (continued)
              (ii)    De-recognition
                      Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished (i.e. when the obligation
                      specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired). The Secretariat also
                      derecognises a financial liability when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the
                      modified liability are substantially different, in which case a new financial liability based
                      on the modified terms is recognised at fair value. On de-recognition of a financial liability,
                      the difference between the carrying amount extinguished and the consideration paid
                      (including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed) is recognised in profit
                      or loss.




     Financial Statements                             - 20 -                              31 December 2020


72   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
                                                                           2020              2019
                                                                           FJD               FJD
 3.    Contributions from Members       General Fund
       Australia                                                      1,872,788          1,872,788
       Cook Islands                                                      89,037             64,806
       Federated States of Micronesia                                    89,037             64,806
       Fiji                                                             247,703            180,291
       French Polynesia                                                 253,278            184,350
       Kiribati                                                          89,037             64,806
       Nauru                                                             89,037             64,806
       New Caledonia                                                    317,035            230,755
       New Zealand                                                    1,872,788          1,872,788
       Niue                                                              89,037             64,806
       Palau                                                             89,037             64,806
       Papua New Guinea                                                 606,690            441,581
       Republic of Marshall Islands                                      89,037             64,806
       Samoa                                                            188,028            136,857
       Solomon Islands                                                  182,534            132,858
       Tonga                                                            177,388            129,112
       Tuvalu                                                            89,037             64,806
       Vanuatu                                                          187,787            136,681
       Tokelau (Associate)                                               28,670             22,282
       Wallis and Futuna (Associate)                                     28,670             22,282
                                                                      6,675,655          5,881,073

 4.    Other income General Fund
       Rent received                                                    197,550            198,176
       Other income                                                      37,592             35,454
       Voluntary contributions                                       10,477,986         10,546,566
                                                                     10,713,128         10,780,196


        The voluntary contributions comprise of the contributions from Australia and New Zealand.




Financial Statements                         - 21 -                            31 December 2020
                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   73
-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
                                                                  2020            2019
                                                                  FJD             FJD
      5.    General Fund Expenditure
      5 (a) Economic Governance
            Salary and ancillary costs                        2,783,916      2,748,415
            Operational costs                                   363,173        623,456
            Duty travel and Meeting Costs                        41,418        639,961
            Recoveries                                          175,320        142,000
            Bad debts                                                38              -
                                                              3,363,865      4,153,832

      5 (b) Political Governance and Security
            Salary and ancillary costs                        1,812,742      1,598,322
            Operational costs                                   483,516        248,672
            Duty travel and meeting costs                       151,078        982,619
            Recoveries                                          246,100        166,300
                                                              2,693,436      2,995,913

      5 (c) Strategic Partnerships and Coordination
            Salary and ancillary costs                        1,634,096      1,584,469
            Operational costs                                    82,300        141,626
            Duty travel                                          60,943        618,340
            Recoveries                                          235,000        298,200
                                                              2,012,339      2,642,635

      5 (d) Corporate Services
            Salary and ancillary costs                        2,938,652      3,084,698
            Operational costs                                 2,350,527      2,379,260
            Duty travel and meeting costs                       107,484        297,028
            External audit fees                                  35,970         32,558
            Depreciation and amortisation                       528,331        446,060
            Impairment loss                                     308,790              -
            Recoveries                                          667,100        696,600
                                                              6,936,854      6,936,204

      5 (e) Management of the Secretariat
            Salary and ancillary costs                        3,110,248      2,983,073
            Operational costs                                    55,720        115,792
            Duty travel and meeting costs                        60,971        398,126
            Impairment loss                                      12,594              -
            Recoveries                                          253,900        219,400
                                                              3,493,433      3,716,391




74   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
     Financial Statements                            - 22 -           31 December 2020
-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

 Notes to the Financial Statements
 For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
                                                                        2020                2019
                                                                        FJD                 FJD
 6.     Cash and cash equivalents
       Bank balances
       Operating accounts FJD                                      1,256,191           1,018,196
       Operating accounts AUD                                      1,170,440           2,089,785
       Operating accounts EURO                                       239,844              26,405
       Operating accounts NZD                                      2,032,235           5,856,853
       Operating accounts USD                                      9,632,653           5,266,072
       PIFS Scholarship Fund bank account FJD                      2,714,332           2,052,438
       Hub & Spoke bank account FJD                                   44,652              56,992
       PITAP bank account EURO                                       877,621             862,542
       Human Rights bank account EURO                                 22,535              21,752
       Support to RAO bank account EURO                              455,792             325,017
       NSA Program bank account EURO                               1,592,925           1,428,888
       World Bank PREP Program bank account FJD                       10,278              48,815
       Green Climate Fund bank account USD                            86,139             110,333
       TECCBUF bank account EURO                                   4,049,024           1,232,376
       SPFMGPP bank account EURO                                     688,137             734,676
       Tackling Root Causes bank account EURO                      1,580,510             150,016
       Climate Change bank account EURO                            1,110,383           1,557,708
       Total bank balances                                        27,563,691          22,838,864

       Cash on hand
       Petty cash                                                      1,500                1,500
       Total cash on hand                                              1,500                1,500

       Short term deposit
       Term Deposit - AUD                                          7,862,895           4,531,840
                                                                   7,862,895           4,531,840

       Total cash and cash equivalents                            35,428,086          27,372,204



        Term deposit cash of $7,840,677 (AUD$5,000,000) is held with ANZ Bank Australia Limited on
        3-month term deposit account.
        Term deposit cash of $22,218 (AUD$14,168) is held with ANZ Bank Australia Limited on call
        account.




Financial Statements                       - 23 -                           31 December 2020


                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   75
-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

                                                                              2020               2019
                                                                              FJD                FJD
      7.    Other financial asset at amortised cost
            Term Deposits NZD                                            2,554,145          2,440,305
            Term Deposit AUD                                                39,203             37,588
            Total other financial asset at amortised cost                2,593,348          2,477,893

            Term deposit investment of $2,554,145 (NZD $1,736,308) is held with Westpac New Zealand
            Limited at an interest rate of 1.65% per annum maturing on 5 January 2021, and subsequently
            rolled over to be matured on 5 July 2021.
            Term deposit investment of $39,203 (AUD$25,000) is held with ANZ Fiji at the interest rate of
            0.25% maturing on 29 August 2021.

      8.    Inventories
            Consumable inventories                                           7,998                   9,732

      9.     Receivables    Members
             Federated States of Micronesia                                    259                     -
             Nauru                                                           6,667                     -
             Palau                                                             830                   861
             Papua New Guinea                                              710,018                     -
             New Caledonia                                                       -               131,132
             Republic of Marshall Islands                                    2,976                     -
                                                                           720,750               131,993
             Less: Allowance for impairment loss                         (303,345)                     -
             Net receivables - members                                     417,405               131,993



      10.    Other receivables and prepayments
             Prepayments                                                    17,358               148,535
             Prepaid franking machine                                        3,000                 3,000
             Bonds                                                          31,572                36,020
             Interest receivable                                            25,072                39,395
             Recoverable expenditure                                         9,650                     -
                                                                            86,652               226,950

             Sundry debtors                                                482,334               267,124
             Less: Allowance for impairment loss                           (20,499)                    -
             Net sundry debtors                                            461,835               267,124

             Total other receivables and prepayments                       548,487               494,074


     Financial Statements                          - 24 -                         31 December 2020


76   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

         Notes to the Financial Statements
         For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
         11.    Property, plant and equipment

                                         Land and       Work In       Plant and     Furniture         Motor
                                         Buildings      Progress     Equipment            and        Vehicle
                                                        (Land &                       Fittings
                                                        Building)
                                                                                                                      Total
                                               FJD             FJD          FJD           FJD             FJD          FJD
Cost/Valuation
Balance at 1 January 2019               11,715,745              -     4,075,462        653,992       201,560     16,646,759
Acquisitions                                49,755        690,222       558,168         42,899             -      1,341,044
Disposals                                        -              -      (12,850)       (13,272)             -       (23,122)
Reversal of leasehold land
valuation*                              (1,900,000)             -             -               -             -    (1,900,000)
Balance at 31 December 2019               9,865,500       690,222     4,620,780        683,619       201,560     16,061,681
Acquisitions                                261,872             -       707,048         24,815              -        993,735
Transfers                                   690,222     (690,222)             -               -             -              -
Disposals                                         -                    (25,078)         (7,196)      (54,700)       (86,974)
Balance at 31 December 2020              10,817,594              -    5,302,750        701,238       146,860     16,968,442


Accumulated Depreciation
Balance at 1 January 2019                6,431,798               -    3,583,239        550,865       115,824     10,681,726
Depreciation charge for the year           264,253               -      264,558         49,211        22,965        600,987
Disposals                                        -               -       (9,475)      (13,272)             -       (22,747)
Reversal of leasehold land
 valuation*                              (506,528)               -            -               -             -     (506,528)
Balance at 31 December 2019              6,189,523               -    3,838,322        586,804       138,789     10,753,438
Depreciation charge for the year           260,395                      353,869         50,014         22,965       687,243
Disposals                                                              (20,906)         (7,196)      (54,700)      (82,802)
Balance at 31 December 2020              6,449,918               -    4,171,285        629,622       107,054     11,357,879


Carrying Amount
At 1 January 2019                        5,283,947              -       492,223        103,127        85,736      5,965,033
At 31 December 2019                      3,675,977        690,222       782,458         96,815        62,771      5,308,243
At 31 December 2020                      4,367,676              -     1,131,465         71,616        39,806      5,610,563




* The reversal under Land and Buildings in 2019 represents revaluation previously booked on leasehold land with a net book
value of $1,393,472. With the adoption of IFRS 16 (Note 2u), this was reversed with a corresponding reversal against the
Capital Reserve (refer page 7).

         Financial Statements                         - 25 -                           31 December 2020




                                                      Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                   77
-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
      12.    Intangible assets                                                   FJD

             Computer software
             Cost
             Balance as at 1 January 2019                                 262,354
             Additions                                                          -
             Disposals                                                          -
             Balance as at 31 December 2019                               262,354
             Additions                                                    133,893
             Disposals                                                          -
             Balance as at 31 December 2020                               396,247

            Amortisation and impairment
            Balance as at 1 January 2019                                  245,341
            Amortisation charge for the year                               17,013
            Disposals                                                           -
            Balance as at 31 December 2019                                262,354
            Amortisation charge for the year                                    -
            Disposals                                                           -
            Balance as at 31 December 2020                                262,354


            Carrying amount
            At 1 January 2019                                              17,013
            At 31 December 2019                                                 -
            At 31 December 2020                                           133,893




      Financial Statements                           - 26 -   31 December 2020

78   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

13.     Right-of-use-Asset and Lease Liabilities

        The Secretariat leases land for its operations and the term of each land lease is ninety-nine years.
        The Secretariat also leases photocopiers and printers with lease terms of up to five years.

        Information about leases for which the Secretariat is a lessee is presented below.

        (a)      Right-of-use assets

        The statement of financial position shows the following amounts relating to right-of-use assets:


                                                                           Equipment           Land      Total
         Cost
         Balance as at 1 January 2019                                          426,694       141,313   568,007
         Additions                                                                   -             -         -
         Balance as at 31 December 2019                                        426,694       141,313   568,007
         Additions                                                                   -             -         -
         Balance as at 31 December 2020                                        426,694       141,313   568,007

         Amortisation
         Balance as at 1 January 2019                                                -             -         -
         Amortisation charge for the year                                      104,094         1,939   106,033
         Balance as at 31 December 2019                                        104,094         1,939   106,033
         Amortisation charge for the year                                      104,094         1,939   106,033
         Balance as at 31 December 2020                                        208,188         3,878   212,066

         Carrying amount
         Balance as at 1 January 2019                                          426,694       141,313   568,007
         Balance as at 31 January 2019                                         322,600       139,374   461,974
         Balance as at 31 December 2020                                        218,506       137,435   355,941




Financial Statements                           - 27 -                              31 December 2020




                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report          79
-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

       (b)     Lease Liabilities

             Lease liabilities included in the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2020 consist of:

                                                                                         2020                    2019
             Lease liabilities                                                            FJD                     FJD
             Current                                                                   106,556                102,093
             Non-current                                                               261,542                368,098
             Total lease liabilities                                                   368,098                470,191

             The statement of comprehensive income shows the following amounts relating to leases:

                                                                                         2020                    2019
                                                                                          FJD                    FJD
             Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets                                106,033                106,033
             Interest expense (included in finance cost)                                24,545                 28,821


                                                                                         2020                    2019
             Cash outflow for leases:                                                     FJD                    FJD
             Repayment of principal lease liabilities                                  102,092                 97,816
             Interest expense                                                           24,545                 28,821
                                                                                       126,637                126,637
             Rental expense - low value and short-term leases                                -                      -
             Total                                                                     126,637                126,637


                                                                                         2020                       2019
                                                                                         FJD                        FJD
      14.    Current payables and accruals
             Trade creditors and commitments                                          912,599               1,148,476
             Employee entitlement                                                     935,291                 800,520
             Other accrued expenses                                                   239,327                 160,519
             Sundry creditors                                                         136,472                 186,933
             Payables - Members:
                New Caledonia                                                           3,574                           -
                Marshall Islands                                                            -                       4,338
                Wallis and Futuna                                                           -                         141
             Total current payables and accruals                                    2,227,263               2,300,927




      Financial Statements                              - 28 -                          31 December 2020




80   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

 Notes to the Financial Statements
 For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

                                                                          2020                    2019
                                                                          FJD                     FJD
 15.     Provisions
         Provision for project ineligible expenditures                     301,043              301,043

         The provision for project ineligible expenditures represents the audit financial findings of the
         EU PITAP in relation to OCTA that is in dispute. Refer to Note 18, on contingent liabilities.


 16.      Contributions received in advance       Trust Fund
         Income
         Trust Fund income                                                24,068,033           17,521,548
         Interest income                                                           -               11,892
         Benefits derived from property, plant and                           264,945              277,973
         equipment
                                                                          24,332,978           17,811,413

         Expenditure
         Economic Governance                                               3,885,612            6,573,974
         Political Governance and Security                                 3,922,377            4,139,980
         Strategic Partnerships and Coordination                             265,391            5,008,768
         Corporate Services                                                   67,022              314,341
         Management of the Secretariat                                     4,236,087            4,033,336
                                                                          12,376,489           20,070,399


                                                                          11,956,489           (2,258,986)

         Net foreign exchange gain/(loss)                        2v                  -            (65,792)

         Surplus/(deficit) of income over expenditure                     11,956,489           (2,324,778)

         Balance at the beginning of the year                             16,752,098           19,076,876

         Balance at the end of the year                                   28,708,587           16,752,098




Financial Statements                            - 29 -                            31 December 2020




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    81
-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
      17. Deferred income General Fund
                                                                                       2020                 2019
                                                                                       FJD                  FJD
             Deferred income General Fund
             Voluntary Contribution received in advance
             - Amount due within next 12 months                                           -            4,804,805
             - Amount due after next 12 months                                            -                    -
             - Income in advance indirect cost*                                     274,564                    -
                                                                                    274,564            4,804,805
            *Income in advance consists of administration fee for the projects ending beyond 2020.
      18. Commitments and contingent liabilities

      (a)    Contingent liabilities
             (i) Pacific Integration Technical Assistance Program (PITAP)
             The European Union project entitled Pacific Integration Technical Assistance Program (PITAP)
             was established with the signing of a Contribution Agreement between the European Commission
             (EC) and Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (PIFS) in April 2011. PIFS later entered into a funding
             agreement with Melanesian Spearhead Group (MSG) and Office of the Trade Adviser (OCTA) in
             2014 for the same project. PITAP was then audited by an EU engaged auditor, EY India in 2016
             for the period from 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2015 for PIFS, from 14 February 2014 to 31
             December 2015 for MSG and from 07 February 2014 to 31 December 2015 for OCTA and the

             233,577 (of which EUR 91,759 relates to PIFS, EUR 120,929 relates to OCTA and EUR 20,889
             relates to MSG) which in their opinion are considered ineligible expenditures. PIFS with MSG and
                                                                                                       mount of
             EUR 786 which OCTA has agreed to. These three agencies will continue to object to these ineligible
             findings to the European Delegation in Suva and will seek to resolve this matter with the European
             Union. The Secretariat is monitoring the EUR 112,648 of the ineligible expenditures relating to
             PIFS and MSG as a contingent liability. The ineligible expenditure relating to OCTA is recorded
             as a provision for ineligible costs, refer to Note 15. (2019: $301k).

             There are further potential exposures which have been identified internally of EUR 101,965 relating
             to overspends on the overall PITAP project, and approximately EUR 178,000 and EUR 18,000
             specific to OCTA and PIFS component respectively, relating to documentation issues. The validity
             of the same will be confirmed once the Secretariat has undergone the final closure audit by the
             European Commission, which had been deferred due to the COVID-19 outbreak.

             (ii) Ratification and Implementation of Human Rights Treaties (IHRT)
             The European
             ratification and implementation of Human Rights Treaties (IHRT) was established with the signing
             of a Contribution Agreement between the European Commission (EC) and Pacific Islands Forum
             Secretariat (PIFS) in February 2012 PIFS later entered into a funding agreement with Secretariat
             of the Pacific Community (SPC) in February 2013 for the same project. IHRT was then subject to
             a mid-term audit by an EU engaged auditor, EY Belgium in 2016 for the period from 21 February


      Financial Statements                           - 30 -                            31 December 2020



82   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
18.   Commitments and contingent liabilities (continued)

      (ii) Ratification and Implementation of Human Rights Treaties (IHRT) (continued)

      The auditors reported financial findings totaling
      of the project which in their opinion are considered ineligible expenditures. PIFS had
      withheld the ineligible amount from the final tranche payment released to SPC under the
      project, and is yet to be disburse the same to the EC. The settlement to EC is expected to
      occur in 2021.

(b)   Capital expenditure commitments
      Expenditure approved and committed amounted to $183,420 as at 31 December 2020 (2019:
      $781,841).

19.   Related party
      Identity of related parties
      The Secretariat has a related party relationship with its executive officers.
      Key management personnel
      During the year the following persons were the executives identified as key management personnel with
      the greatest authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the
      Secretariat:

      Dame Meg Taylor               Secretary General
      Filimon Manoni                Deputy Secretary General (from 21 May 2020)
      Cristelle Pratt               Deputy Secretary General (until 02 March 2020)
      Apaitia Veiogo                Director Operations (from 31 August 2020)
      Sione Tekiteki                Director Governance and Engagement
      Irvine Paki Ormsby            Director Policy
      Zarak Khan                    Director Programmes and Initiatives



      The aggregate compensation of the key management personnel comprises of short-term benefits only
      and is set out below:
                                                                       2020                         2019
                                                                       FJD                          FJD

             Short-term benefits                                  2,471,104                    2,316,750



Financial Statements                            - 31 -                                31 December 2020




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report       83
-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
      20.   Risk management policies
            Financial risk management objective and policies
            The Secretariat                    l instruments comprise cash, short-term deposits and receivables.
            The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide finance for the Secretariat
            As a result of the Secretariat                                               posed to exchange rate risk,
            credit risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
            Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted, including the criteria for recognition,
            the basis of measurement and the basis on which income and expenses are recognised, in respect of each
            class of financial asset and financial liability are disclosed in Note 2 to the financial statements.
            (i)    Foreign exchange risk
                   Exchange rate risk relates to the risk of loss arising from changes in the exchange rates against
                   the Fiji dollar. The Secretariat receives funding from various member countries and donors in
                   foreign currency. The Secretariat utilises these foreign currencies to transact in Fiji dollars. This
                   exposes the Secretariat to foreign exchange risk. In order to reduce the exposure to foreign
                   exchange risks, the Secretariat operates various foreign currency bank accounts (such as
                   Australian, New Zealand, United States and Euro dollar accounts) and transacts where required
                   in these currencies.
                   The Secretariat exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows based on notional amounts:


                                                                          2020                       2019

                    AUD                                                746,389                  1,389,916
                    NZD                                              1,381,513                  4,050,599
                    USD                                              4,766,096                  2,507,018
                    EUR                                              4,236,091                  2,638,450




      Financial Statements                               - 32 -                           31 December 2020




84   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020
20. Risk management policies (continued)
     Financial risk management objective and policies (continued)
       (i) Foreign exchange risk (continued)
           The following significant exchange rates applied during the year:

                                                                           Reporting date rate
                                                                         2020               2019

       AUD                                                               0.6377               0.6651
       NZD                                                               0.6798               0.6916
       USD                                                               0.4904               0.4663
       EUR                                                               0.3990               0.4162

     Sensitivity analysis:

      A 10 percent strengthening or weakening of the foreign currency against the Fiji dollar at 31 December
      2020 would have increased or decreased respectively equity and income by the amounts shown below.
      This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remain constant. The analysis
      is performed on the same basis for 2019.

                             AUD           NZD                             USD                     EUR
                        Equity Income Equity Income                   Equity   Income         Equity Income

         2020                117       117       203        203          972           972     1,062      1,062

         2019                209      209       586        586           538           538       634        634



      Forward Contract Policy
      The Secretariat established a Forward Contracts Policy and Procedures in 2015 as a tool for managing
      foreign currency risks and it is designed to control risks associated with entering into Forward Contract
      arrangement. The Secretariat did not enter into any forward contracts in 2020.




Financial Statements                            - 33 -                             31 December 2020




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report           85
-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

       20. Risk management policies (continued)
            Financial risk management objective and policies (continued)
             (ii) Credit risk
                 Credit risk is the potential risk for loss arising from failure of Members to meet their agreed
                 contributions.
                 reduce any exposure to bad debts. This is not considered a significant risk.

                 The Secretariat does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
                 value through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the reporting date would not
                 affect the statement of comprehensive income. Furthermore, the financial assets and financial
                 liabilities are carried at amortized costs in the balance sheet and is considered a reasonable
                 approximation of fair value.

                 The maximum exposure to credit risk at balance date to recognized financial assets, is the carrying
                 amount, net of any provisions for impairment of these assets, as disclosed in the statement of
                 financial position and notes to the financial statements.

                 The Secretariat applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses for
                 receivables from members.

                 To measure the expected credit losses, receivables from members have been grouped based on

                 based on the probability of trade receivables following the movement of cash outstanding from
                 payment status of current through all delinquency buckets until write off. Loss rates are based on
                 historical credit losses experienced within this year. These rates are then adjusted to reflect current
                 and forward-looking
                 evaluation of receivables from members over their expected lives.

                 Movement in the allowance for impairment losses on membership receivable and sundry debtors
                 is summarized as follows:

                                                                                          2020               2019
                                                                                           FJD                FJD
                 Balance at beginning of year                                               -                   -
                 Impairment losses recognised      membership receivable              (303,345)                 -
                 Impairment losses recognised      sundry debtors                      (20,499)                 -
                 Balance at end of year                                               (323,844)                 -




      Financial Statements                            - 34 -                              31 December 2020




86   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

 20. Risk management policies (continued)
      Financial risk management objective and policies (continued)
      (ii) Credit risk (continued)

           The following table provides analysis about the exposure to credit risk and expected credit losses
           for trade receivables as at 31 December 2020:


                                                                         Gross
                                                                        carrying         Loss
                                                                        amount        allowance
                                                                              $             $
             Membership receivable
             Accounts individually assessed                               720,750         303,345

             Sundry debtors
             Accounts individually assessed                               482,334          20,499
             Total                                                      1,203,084         323,844


           While cash and cash equivalents and other financial asset at amortised cost are also subject to the
           impairment requirements of IFRS 9, the impairment loss is deemed immaterial due to short term
           maturities and/or low expected credit risks and a lack of delinquency.

      (iii) Interest rate risk

           exposure to interest rate risk is not considered material.
      (iv) Liquidity risk
            Liquidity risk is the risk that the Secretariat will not be able to meet its financial obligations as

            it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and
            stressed conditions,
            reputation.
            Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash, marketable securities and
            the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.

            has minimal exposure to liquidity risk.




Financial Statements                            - 35 -                              31 December 2020




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report           87
-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

      Notes to the Financial Statements
      For the Year Ended 31 December 2020

      20.   Events subsequent to year end

            A new Secretary General was appointed in February 2021 through a Special Leaders meeting. Due to
            travel restrictions and further developments with the SG designate, the tenure of the current Secretary
            General, Dame Meg Taylor was extended beyond 15th January 2021 until the commencement of her
            successor.

            Following the appointment of the new Secretary General, the five (5) Micronesian members made a
            joint decision to withdraw their membership from the Pacific Islands Forum                      . The full
            withdrawal process will take twelve (12) months to take full effect. This event is not likely to affect the
            2020 financial results, although it could impact the total assessed member contribution in future years,
            after the respective governments would have officially launched the process of withdrawal from the
            Forum.

            The European Union Delegation in its joint meetings with PIFS and its letter to PIFS dated 10 March
            2021 raised concerns on a perceived non performance of salary contract, and the eligibility of salary
            costs charged. A total of approximately $43,034 has been incurred, of which $8,714 relates to the 2020
            financial year, and the residual relating to the 2021 financial year. The Secretariat has responded to the
            Delegation on 23 March 2021 and are in discussions to find a resolution on this matter.

            On 19 April 2021, a new outbreak in Fiji of the local transmission of Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19)
            resulted in additional restrictions put into place by the Fijian Government. Measures taken to contain
            the virus continue to disrupt businesses and reducing the levels of activity across various sectors. There
            is considerable uncertainty around the possible duration of these increased restrictions and the resulting
            depth of impact that may come subsequently from the disruption caused.




      Financial Statements                           - 36 -                              31 December 2020




88   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                 37




Disclaimer

The additional unaudited supplementary information presented on pages 38 to 61 is compiled by
the management of Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion
on such financial information and no warranty of accuracy or reliability is given.

We advise that neither the firm nor any member or employee of the firm accepts any responsibility
arising in any way whatsoever to any person in respect of such information, including any errors or
omissions therein, arising through negligence or otherwise however caused.




27 May 2021                                                                                              PricewaterhouseCoopers
Suva, Fiji                                                                                               Chartered Accountants




PricewaterhouseCoopers, Level 8 Civic Tower, 272 Victoria Parade, Suva, Fiji.
GPO Box 200, Suva, Fiji.
T: (679)3313955 / 3315199, F: (679) 3300947
PricewaterhouseCoopers is a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, each member firm of which is a separate legal entity.




                                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                 89
-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                     7,045,655
                                                                                                                                        74,271


                                                                                                                                    10,713,128
                                                                                                                                    23,698,033
                                                                                                                                       264,945

                                                                                                                                                                          41,796,032



                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,249,477
                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,615,813
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,277,730
                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,129,627
                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,729,520
                                                                                                                                                                                                      28,002,167

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13,793,865
                                                                                                                      FJD




                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                              2020 Consolidated




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  31 December 2020
                                                                                                                      FJD


                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                              -


                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                    (1,831,400)
                                                                                                                                    (1,042,849)




                                                                                                                                                                          (2,874,249)




                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2,874,249)

                                                                                                                                                                                                      (2,874,249)
                                                                                              Eliminations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
ment
onsolidated
      of Comprehensive
            Statement
                    Consolidated
                       ofIncome
                          Comprehensive
                                 Statement
                                        Income
                                           of Comprehensive Income
d
or31
   the
     December
       Year Ended
               202031
                    For
                      December
                        the Year2020
                                 Ended 31 December 2020
                                         2020                                                                             2020 2020                                      Eliminations
                                                                                                                                                                            2020
                                                                                                                                                                               2020                                                             Eliminations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020 Consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2020                                                   2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Eliminati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Consol
                                                                                              Trust Fund
                                                                                                    2020




                                                                                                                                    23,698,033




                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,885,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,922,377
                                                                                                                                                                                                         265,391
                                                                                                                                                                                                          67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,236,087
                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,376,489

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11,956,489
                                                                                                     FJD



                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                      XB



                                                                                                                                       370,000




                                                                                                                                       264,945

                                                                                                                                                                          24,332,978




                                 General Fund                                                                     General Fund
                                                                                                                            Trust Fund                              General
                                                                                                                                                                        Trust
                                                                                                                                                                            Fund
                                                                                                                                                                              Fund                                                                  Trust Fund
                                                                                                                                    XB                                          XB                                                                          XB
                                            FJD                                                                            FJD     FJD                                       FJD
                                                                                                                                                                               FJDFJD                                                                   FJDFJD FJD                                                                             F
ncome                        Income

Contributions
 bers          from members Contributions6,675,655
                                               from members 6,675,655 370,000                                                                                                  6,675,655
                                                                                                                                                                                    370,000 -                                                                          370,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7,045,655
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                 7,0




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 38 -
nterest                        Interest     74,271                 74,271       -                                                                                                 74,271 - -                                                                               - 74,271
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
Recoveries income              Recoveries1,831,400
                                            income              1,831,400       -                                                                                              1,831,400
                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,831,400)
                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                     (1,831,400) -     0                                                     (1,831,4
Administration
 ived            fees received Administration
                                         1,042,849
                                                 fees received 1,042,849        -                                                                                              1,042,849
                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,042,849)
                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                     (1,042,849) -     0                                                     (1,042,8
Other income                   Other income
                                        10,713,128             10,713,128       -                                                                                             10,713,128 - -                                                                              10,713,128
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - -                                                               10,7
                                                                                              General Fund
                                                                                                      2020




                                                                                                                                                                          20,337,303




                                                                                                                                                                                                      18,499,927

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,837,376
                                                                                                                      FJD




                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                     6,675,655
                                                                                                                                        74,271
                                                                                                                                     1,831,400
                                                                                                                                     1,042,849
                                                                                                                                    10,713,128




                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,363,865
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,693,436
                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,012,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,936,854
                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,493,433




  rust Fund income             Trust Fund income-                      23,698,033
                                                                        -                                                                                                        23,698,033
                                                                                                                                                                                        -    -                                                                      23,698,033
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          23,698,033
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                 23,6
                                             Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income




Benefits
 operty, plant
         derived
               & from property,Benefits
                                  plant &derived from property, plant & 264,945                                                                                                     264,945 -                                                                          264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 264,945                                                            2
 quipment                      equipment
                                        20,337,303             20,337,303
                                                                       24,332,978                                                                                             20,337,303
                                                                                                                                                                                 24,332,978
                                                                                                                                                                                   (2,874,249)                                                                   (2,874,249)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    24,332,978
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          41,796,032                                                     (2,874,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41,7

Expenditure                  Expenditure
                                             For the Year Ended 31 December 2020




  conomic Governance           Economic  3,363,865
                                           Governance            3,363,865
                                                                         3,885,612                                                                                             3,363,865
                                                                                                                                                                                  3,885,612 -                                                                        3,885,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7,249,477
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                  7,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (Deficit)/surplus of income over expenditure




dolitical
   SecurityGovernance and Security
                               Political 2,693,436
                                         Governance and Security 2,693,436
                                                                         3,922,377                                                                                             2,693,436
                                                                                                                                                                                  3,922,377 -                                                                        3,922,377
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6,615,813
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                  6,6
 dtrategic
    Coordination
           Partnerships and Coordination
                               Strategic2,012,339
                                          Partnerships and Coordination
                                                                 2,012,339 265,391                                                                                             2,012,339
                                                                                                                                                                                    265,391 -                                                                          265,391
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,277,730
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                  2,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Strategic Partnerships and Coordination
                                                                                                                                    Benefits derived from property, plant &




Corporate Services             Corporate6,936,854
                                           Services              6,936,854 67,022                                                                                              6,936,854
                                                                                                                                                                                   (2,874,249)
                                                                                                                                                                                     67,022                                                                      (2,874,249)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4,129,627                                                     (2,874,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Political Governance and Security




Management
 etariat       of the Secretariat
                               Management3,493,433
                                              of the Secretariat 3,493,433
                                                                         4,236,087                                                                                             3,493,433
                                                                                                                                                                                  4,236,087 -                                                                        4,236,087
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7,729,520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                  7,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Management of the Secretariat




                                       18,499,927               18,499,927
                                                                        12,376,489                                                                                            18,499,927
                                                                                                                                                                                 12,376,489
                                                                                                                                                                                   (2,874,249)                                                                   (2,874,249)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12,376,489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,002,167                                                     (2,874,2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28,0
                                                                                                                                    Contributions from members


                                                                                                                                    Administration fees received




me
Deficit)/surplus
   over expenditure
                 of income over
                            (Deficit)/surplus
                                expenditure
                                     1,837,376of income over 1,837,376
                                                             expenditure
                                                                    11,956,489                                                                                                   1,837,376
                                                                                                                                                                                   11,956,489 -                                                                                                11,956,489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    13,793,865
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                     13,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Economic Governance
                                                                                                                                    Recoveries income




                                                                                                                                                                                                      Corporate Services
                                                                                                                                    Trust Fund income




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Financial Statements
                                                                                                                                    Other income




                                                                                                                                                                                        Expenditure
                                                                                                                                    equipment
                                                                                                                           Income


                                                                                                                                    Interest




nancial Statements          Financial Statements                                                                  - 38 -                                  - 38 -                                                                   - 38 -31 December 2020                                                   31 December 2020



           90           Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                               6,251,073
                                                                                                                                 279,150


                                                                                                                              10,780,196
                                                                                                                              17,151,548
                                                                                                                                 277,973

                                                                                                                                                                    34,739,940



                                                                                                                                                                                                10,727,806
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,135,893
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,651,403
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,498,894
                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,749,727
                                                                                                                                                                                                37,763,723
                                                                                                                   FJD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (422,500)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3,446,283)
                                                                                              2019 Consolidated




                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      31 December 2020
                                                                                                                   FJD


                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                              (1,706,000)
                                                                                                                              (1,045,651)
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                    (2,751,651)




                                                                                                                                                                                                (2,751,651)

                                                                                                                                                                                                (2,751,651)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                              Eliminations




                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
ment
nsolidated
      of Comprehensive
           StatementConsolidated
                     of Income
                        Comprehensive
                                  Statement
                                        Income
                                            of Comprehensive Income
 the
 31 December
     Year Ended2019
                 31 For
                    December
                         the Year
                               2019
                                  Ended 31 December 2019
                                    2019                                                                   2019     2019                              Eliminations
                                                                                                                                                          2019
                                                                                                                                                           2019                                                 Eliminations
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2019    2019 Consolidated
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Eliminations
                                  General                                                                General
                                                                                                              Trust Fund                            Trust
                                                                                                                                                      General
                                                                                                                                                          Fund                                                        Trust Fund
                                                                                              Trust Fund
                                                                                                    2019




                                                                                                                              17,151,548


                                                                                                                                                                    17,811,413



                                                                                                                                                                                                 6,573,974
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,139,980
                                                                                                                                                                                                 5,008,768
                                                                                                                                                                                                   314,341
                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,033,336
                                                                                                                                                                                                20,070,399
                                                                                                                  FJD




                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (65,792)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2,324,778)
                                                                                                                   XB



                                                                                                                                 370,000
                                                                                                                                  11,892




                                                                                                                                 277,973




                                    Fund                                                                   Fund                                           Fund
                                                                                                                      XB                                    XB                                                                                 XB
                                      FJD                                                                   FJD      FJD                                   FJD
                                                                                                                                                           FJDFJD                                                                         FJD FJD FJD                                                                        FJD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FJD
 ome                         Income




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - 39 -
bers
ntributions from members Contributions
                                 5,881,073 from members
                                                      5,881,073 370,000                                                                               5,881,073
                                                                                                                                                        370,000 -                                                             370,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 6,251,073                                                         6,251,073-
 rest                         Interest
                                   267,258              267,258 11,892                                                                                  267,258
                                                                                                                                                          11,892 -                                                             11,892
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 279,150                                                             279,150-
 overies income               Recoveries
                                 1,706,000income      1,706,000          -                                                                            1,706,000
                                                                                                                                                         (1,706,000)
                                                                                                                                                               -                                                      (1,706,000)     -   -                                                       (1,706,000)-
ministration
ved           fees received Administration
                                 1,045,651 fees received
                                                      1,045,651          -                                                                            1,045,651
                                                                                                                                                         (1,045,651)
                                                                                                                                                               -                                                      (1,045,651)     -   -                                                       (1,045,651)-
 er income                    Other
                                10,780,196
                                     income          10,780,196          -                                                                           10,780,196- -                                                              10,780,196
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -     -                                                            10,780,196-
                                             Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income

                                                                                                2019




                                                                                                                                                                    19,680,178




                                                                                                                                                                                                20,444,975
                                                                                                                   FJD




                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (356,708)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1,121,505)
                                                                                                Fund




                                                                                                                               5,881,073
                                                                                                                                 267,258
                                                                                                                               1,706,000
                                                                                                                               1,045,651
                                                                                                                              10,780,196




                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,153,832
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,995,913
                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,642,635
                                                                                                                                                                                                 6,936,204
                                                                                                                                                                                                 3,716,391
                                                                                              General




 st Fund income               Trust Fund income
                                          -                    17,151,548
                                                                -                                                                                    17,151,548-   -                                                       17,151,548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                17,151,548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                                  17,151,548-
nefits
 perty,derived
        plant &from property, Benefits
                               plant & derived from property, plant277,973
                                                                    &                                                                                   277,973 -                                                             277,973
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 277,973                                                             277,973-
 ipment                       equipment
                                19,680,178           19,680,17817,811,413                                                                            19,680,178
                                                                                                                                                     17,811,413
                                                                                                                                                         (2,751,651)                                                  (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           17,811,413
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                34,739,940                                                        (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   34,739,940
                                             For the Year Ended 31 December 2019




penditure                    Expenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (Deficit)/surplus of income over expenditure




  nomic Governance              Economic
                                   4,153,832
                                           Governance 4,153,832 6,573,974                                                                             4,153,832
                                                                                                                                                      6,573,974 -                                                            6,573,974
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10,727,806
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                 10,727,806
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                Strategic Partnerships and Coordination
                                                                                                                              Benefits derived from property, plant &




 itical
  Security
         Governance and SecurityPolitical
                                   2,995,913
                                          Governance and2,995,913
                                                          Security 4,139,980                                                                          2,995,913
                                                                                                                                                      4,139,980 -                                                            4,139,980
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 7,135,893                                                        7,135,893
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
dategic
   Coordination
         Partnerships and Coordination
                                Strategic
                                   2,642,635
                                          Partnerships and
                                                         2,642,635
                                                           Coordination
                                                                   5,008,768                                                                          2,642,635
                                                                                                                                                      5,008,768 -                                                            5,008,768
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 7,651,403                                                        7,651,403
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                Political Governance and Security




  porate Services               Corporate
                                   6,936,204
                                           Services      6,936,204 314,341                                                                            6,936,204
                                                                                                                                                        314,341
                                                                                                                                                         (2,751,651)                                                  (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               314,341
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   4,498,894                                                      (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,498,894
                                                                                                                                                                                                Management of the Secretariat




 nagement
  tariat     of the Secretariat Management
                                   3,716,391 of the Secretariat
                                                         3,716,391 4,033,336                                                                          3,716,391
                                                                                                                                                      4,033,336 -                                                            4,033,336
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 7,749,727                                                        7,749,727
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                              Contributions from members


                                                                                                                              Administration fees received




                                 20,444,975             20,444,97520,070,399                                                                         20,444,975
                                                                                                                                                     20,070,399
                                                                                                                                                         (2,751,651)                                                  (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           20,070,399
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                37,763,723                                                        (2,751,651)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37,763,723
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Foreign exchange (loss)
                                                                                                                                                                                                Economic Governance




 eign exchange (loss)         Foreign
                                 (356,708)
                                       exchange (loss) (356,708) (65,792)                                                                             (356,708)
                                                                                                                                                        (65,792)                        -                                               (65,792)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - (422,500)                                              (422,500)-
                                                                                                                              Recoveries income




                                                                                                                                                                                                Corporate Services
                                                                                                                              Trust Fund income




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Financial Statements




me
 ficit)/surplus
   over expenditure
                of income over(Deficit)/surplus
                               (1,121,505)
                               expenditure      of income
                                                      (1,121,505)
                                                           over expenditure
                                                                (2,324,778)                                                                         (1,121,505)
                                                                                                                                                    (2,324,778)                         -                                            (2,324,778)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (3,446,283)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                      (3,446,283)-
                                                                                                                              Other income




                                                                                                                                                                                  Expenditure
                                                                                                                              equipment
                                                                                                                     Income


                                                                                                                              Interest




ncial Statements            Financial Statements                                                         - 39 -                          - 39 -                                                                  - 3931
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - December 2020                                                       31 December 2020




                                                                                                                                      Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                     91
-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                            9,504,513
                                                                                                                                                                            9,642,464
                                                                                                                                                                            1,974,301


                                                                                                                                                                                            8,908,690



                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,071,272)

                                                                                                                                                                                            (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                             2020 Carry
                                                                                                                                                              Forward




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                            3,137,540
                                                                                                                                                                            4,615,734



                                                                                                                                                                                          4,289,922



                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,376,489
                                                                                                                                                                              266,271

                                                                                                                                                                                             67,022

                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                             Expenditure
                                                                                                                                                                2020


                                                                                                                                                                            12,642,053
                                                                                                                                                                            14,258,198
                                                                                                                                                                             2,240,572


                                                                                                                                                                                           13,198,612



                                                                                                                                                                                                          41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,004,250)

                                                                                                                                                                                            (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                            Total 2020

                                                                                                                                                            Available
                                                                                                                                                             Funds

                                                                                                                                                                            7,848,909
                                                                                                                                                                            8,236,120
                                                                                                                                                                            3,795,880


                                                                                                                                                                                          8,658,852



                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                            344,393

                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                           (36,417)
                                                                                                                                                            Received
                                                                                                                                                            Funding
                                                                                                                                                              2020




nformation
 ntary Information
               Supplementary Information
 ome
 on ofand
       Income
          Expenditure
              and Reconciliation
                  Expenditure
                      - Trust Fund
                               - Trust
                                 of Income
                                    (Sum
                                       Fund
                                         byand
                                            Programmes)
                                            (Sum
                                               Expenditure
                                                 by Programmes)
                                                           - Trust Fund (Sum by Programmes)
                                                                                                                                                                              4,793,144
                                                                                                                                                                              6,022,078



                                                                                                                                                                                            4,539,760



                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                            (1,555,308)

                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,348,643)


                                                                                                                                                                                               36,417
                                                                                                                                                                                            (250,109)




December
 2020     2020    As at 31st December 2020
                                                                                                                                                             2020 Funding
                                                                                                                                                              Balance c/f
                                                                                Reconciliation of Income and Expenditure - Trust Fund (Sum by Programmes)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 40 -
                                                                                       2020       2020
                                                                                                     Total 2020Total 2020         2020          Total 2020
                            2019 Carry 2019 Carry2020        2020
                                                               2020 Funding2020
                                                                           2019 Funding
                                                                                 Carry         2020         2020 Funding2020      2020
                                                                                                                                    2020 Carry2020 Carry
                  Prog        Prog                               Prog                Funding FundingFunds        Funds         Funding             Funds
                             Forward ForwardReallocation
                                                       Reallocation
                                                                Balance c/fForward
                                                                            Balance c/f Reallocation         Balance
                                                                                                                   Expenditure
                                                                                                                     c/f      Expenditure
                                                                                                                                     Forward Forward                                                                                                                                Exp
mme               code        code
                            Programme                             code              Received ReceivedAvailable Available       Received          Available
 nce
 c Governance PI             5,635,789
                            Economic
                               PI        5,635,789
                                                (842,645) (842,645)
                                        Governance                  PI4,793,144
                                                                             5,635,789
                                                                                4,793,144
                                                                                      7,848,909
                                                                                              (842,645)
                                                                                                 7,848,909
                                                                                                      12,642,05312,642,053
                                                                                                                4,793,144
                                                                                                                      3,137,5403,137,540
                                                                                                                                 7,848,909
                                                                                                                                      9,504,5139,504,513
                                                                                                                                                  12,642,053                                                                                                                         3,
                                                                                                                                                                            (2,120,892)




                                                                                                                                                                                                          (4,514,759)
                                                                                                                                                                              (842,645)
                                                                                                                                                                              (129,679)


                                                                                                                                                                                          (602,466)
                                                                                                                                                                                          (819,077)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                             Reallocation




 Governance
 e                  PS       6,151,757
                            Political    6,151,757
                               PS Governance    (129,679) (129,679)  6,022,078
                                                                    PS       6,151,757
                                                                                6,022,078
                                                                                      8,236,120
                                                                                              (129,679)
                                                                                                 8,236,120
                                                                                                      14,258,19814,258,198
                                                                                                                6,022,078
                                                                                                                      4,615,7344,615,734
                                                                                                                                 8,236,120
                                                                                                                                      9,642,4649,642,464
                                                                                                                                                  14,258,198                                                                                                                         4,
                                                                                                                                                                2020




 pPartnership
    and        and
                    ST          565,584
                            Strategic
                               ST          565,584
                                              (2,120,892)
                                      Partnership and (2,120,892)  (1,555,308)
                                                                   ST         (1,555,308)
                                                                               565,5843,795,880
                                                                                            (2,120,892)
                                                                                                 3,795,880
                                                                                                       2,240,572
                                                                                                              (1,555,308)
                                                                                                                 2,240,572
                                                                                                                         266,271 3,795,880
                                                                                                                                  266,271
                                                                                                                                      1,974,301 1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                   2,240,572
  tion                      Coordination
 e Services        CS         (746,177)
                            Corporate
                               CS        (746,177)
                                       Services (602,466) (602,466)(1,348,643)
                                                                   CS        (746,177)
                                                                              (1,348,643)
                                                                                        344,393
                                                                                              (602,466)
                                                                                                   344,393
                                                                                                     (1,004,250)
                                                                                                              (1,348,643)
                                                                                                               (1,004,250)67,022 344,393
                                                                                                                                    67,022
                                                                                                                                    (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                              (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                 (1,004,250)
ment
  Secretariat
       of the Secretariat
                   MS        5,358,837
                            Management
                               MS        5,358,837
                                          of the(819,077)
                                                 Secretariat(819,077)
                                                                   MS4,539,760
                                                                             5,358,837
                                                                                4,539,760
                                                                                      8,658,852
                                                                                              (819,077)
                                                                                                 8,658,852
                                                                                                      13,198,61213,198,612
                                                                                                                4,539,760
                                                                                                                      4,289,9224,289,922
                                                                                                                                 8,658,852
                                                                                                                                      8,908,6908,908,690
                                                                                                                                                  13,198,612                                                                                                                         4,
                                                                                                                                                                            5,635,789
                                                                                                                                                                            6,151,757



                                                                                                                                                                                          5,358,837



                                                                                                                                                                                                          16,752,098
                                                                                                                                                                              565,584




                                                                                                                                                                                             36,417
                                                                                                                                                                                          (746,177)

                                                                                                                                                                                          (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                             2019 Carry
                                                                                                                                                              Forward




Movement
Exchange Movement  FX         (250,109)
                            Foreign      (250,109)
                               FX Exchange      Movement-          FX (250,109)
                                                                       -     (250,109)
                                                                                (250,109)       -      (250,109)
                                                                                                       - -      (250,109)
                                                                                                                 (250,109)     -      (250,109)
                                                                                                                                          --     (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                   (250,109)
 ncome              II          II36,417
                            Interest Income36,417         -         II - 36,417 36,417
                                                                                   36,417
                                                                                       (36,417) (36,417)
                                                                                                       -        - 36,417 -     - (36,417)-     -          - -
BUTIONS
 CONTRIBUTIONS              TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS
                            16,752,098
                                     16,752,098
                                          (4,514,759)
                                                   (4,514,759)
                                                           12,237,339
                                                                  16,752,098
                                                                    12,237,339
                                                                          28,847,737
                                                                                (4,514,759)
                                                                                   28,847,737
                                                                                         41,085,076
                                                                                                 12,237,339
                                                                                                  41,085,076
                                                                                                      12,376,489
                                                                                                               12,376,489
                                                                                                               28,847,737
                                                                                                                   28,708,587
                                                                                                                            28,708,587
                                                                                                                              41,085,076                                                                                                                                            12,
DONORS                       FROM DONORS
                                                                                                                                                               Prog
                                                                                                                                                               code




                                                                                                                                                                                          MS
                                                                                                                                                                                          FX
                                                                                                                                                                                          CS
                                                                                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                                                                                                PS
                                                                                                                                                                PI




                                                                                                                                                                                           II
                                                    Supplementary Information




                                                                                                                                                                     Management of the Secretariat



                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                     Foreign Exchange Movement
                                                                                As at 31st December 2020




                                                                                                                                                                     Strategic Partnership and
                                                                                                                                                                     Economic Governance
                                                                                                                                                                     Political Governance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Financial Statements
                                                                                                                                                                     Corporate Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                        FROM DONORS
                                                                                                                                                                     Interest Income
                                                                                                                                                                     Coordination
                                                                                                                                                                     Programme




  Statements                 Financial Statements                                                                                                            - 40 -             - 40 -                                        - 40 -   31 December
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                312020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   December 2020


            92              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                     (1,247)
                                                                                                                                   (96,622)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (38,303)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (52,172)
                                                                                                                                       1,002
                                                                                                                                         977




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28,708,581
                                                                                                                                       7,514

                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                       9,829

                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                       3,968

                                                                                                                                       5,157

                                                                                                                                       2,464

                                                                                                                                       8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                    183,542

                                                                                                                                    363,632

                                                                                                                                     38,925
                                                                                                                                     16,270

                                                                                                                                    368,513


                                                                                                                                    101,942
                                                                                                                                    596,368
                                                                                                                                     75,320

                                                                                                                                    315,343



                                                                                                                                     28,830

                                                                                                                                     12,457
                                                                                                                                    348,568




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37,885
                                                                                                                                  4,869,912

                                                                                                                                  1,824,851




                                                                                                                                  8,585,187

                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                  3,668,231




                                                                                                                                  6,348,434




                                                                                                                                  1,072,795
                                                                                                                            2020 Carry
                                                                                                                             Forward




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                       (1,207)
                                                                                                                                                          (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (197,937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                             -


                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -


                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                         9,331
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                       11,830




                                                                                                                                                       31,767




                                                                                                                                                       22,240
                                                                                                                                                      200,408

                                                                                                                                                      122,295




                                                                                                                                                      321,341




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 540,382

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 264,945
                                                                                                                                                    2,854,172

                                                                                                                                                    1,953,081




                                                                                                                                                    2,455,734




                                                                                                                                                    2,059,312




                                                                                                                                                    1,728,861
                                                                                                                                 2020 Expenditure




                                                                                                                                       (1,247)
                                                                                                                                     (96,622)




                                                                                                                                          (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (250,109)
                                                                                                                                   11,040,921




                                                                                                                                         1,002
                                                                                                                                           977




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            41,085,074
                                                                                                                                         7,514




                                                                                                                                         9,829




                                                                                                                                         3,968

                                                                                                                                         5,157

                                                                                                                                         2,464

                                                                                                                                         8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                       11,830




                                                                                                                                       16,270




                                                                                                                                       75,320




                                                                                                                                       28,830

                                                                                                                                       12,457




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  37,885
                                                                                                                                      183,542

                                                                                                                                      564,040

                                                                                                                                      161,220


                                                                                                                                      400,280


                                                                                                                                      423,283
                                                                                                                                      605,699


                                                                                                                                      315,343




                                                                                                                                      347,361




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 502,079

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 264,945
                                                                                                                                    7,724,084

                                                                                                                                    3,777,932




                                                                                                                                            21




                                                                                                                                    5,727,543




                                                                                                                                    8,077,295




                                                                                                                                    1,095,035
                                                                                                                            Total 2020 funds
                                                                                                                               Available




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            28,847,735
                                                                                                                                          -


                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -



                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                     16,070




                                                                                                                                     88,350
                                                                                                                                     75,320




                                                                                                                                     14,615
                                                                                                                                    183,542

                                                                                                                                    250,000




                                                                                                                                    403,816



                                                                                                                                    126,518




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 586,943

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 264,945
                                                                                                                                  5,916,838

                                                                                                                                  2,286,124




                                                                                                                                  7,712,102




                                                                                                                                  2,261,396

                                                                                                                                  3,192,532




                                                                                                                                  4,399,159




                                                                                                                                  1,069,465
 pplementary
 nformation InformationSupplementary Information
                                                                                                                            2020 Funding
                                                                                                                              Received




 conciliation
  Income andofExpenditure
               Income and
                        Reconciliation
                          - Expenditure
                            Trust Fund of
                                       (Sum
                                        - Trust
                                          Income
                                             byFund
                                                Donors)
                                                 and(Sum
                                                     Expenditure
                                                         by Donors)
                                                                 - Trust Fund (Sum by Donors)
mber
 at 31st
     2020December 2020 As at 31st December 2020
                               2019 Carry           2019
                                                       2020
                                                          Carry           20202020
                                                                               Funding                                                                        2019
                                                                                                                                                              2020
                                                                                                                                                               2020Carry
                                                                                                                                                                    Funding
                                                                                                                                                                     Funding         Total
                                                                                                                                                                                       2020
                                                                                                                                                                                        20202020
                                                                                                                                                                                              Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                  funds        2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                               TotalFunding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020 funds         2020 Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2020 Carry Total 2020 2020funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Carry
Donor               Donor                               Donor                                                                                                                                                   2020 Expenditure        2020 Expenditure                           2
                                Forward            Reallocation
                                                     Forward              Reallocation
                                                                           Balance c/f                                                                         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                Balance
                                                                                                                                                                 Received c/f        Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                        Available
                                                                                                                                                                                         Received               Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c/f              Received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Forward           Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Forward
                                                                                                                                      (4,240)

                                                                                                                                      (1,247)
                                                                                                                                    (96,622)




                                                                                                                                 (1,861,116)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (84,864)
                                                                                                                                         (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (250,109)
                                                                                                                                        1,002
                                                                                                                                          977




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,237,339
                                                                                                                                        7,514




                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                        9,829




                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                        3,968

                                                                                                                                        5,157

                                                                                                                                        2,464

                                                                                                                                        8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                      16,270




                                                                                                                                      19,467




                                                                                                                                      28,830

                                                                                                                                      12,457


                                                                                                                                      25,570



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37,885
                                                                                                                                     314,040

                                                                                                                                     161,220




                                                                                                                                     517,349


                                                                                                                                     188,825




                                                                                                                                     332,746
                                                                                                                                   1,807,246

                                                                                                                                   1,491,808




                                                                                                                                   3,328,819

                                                                                                                                           21




                                                                                                                                   2,535,011




                                                                                                                                   3,678,136




  STRALIA                        AUSTRALIA
                                    2,829,225          (1,021,979)
                                                         2,829,225            (1,021,979)
                                                                                  1,807,246                                                                        2,829,225
                                                                                                                                                                      5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                       1,807,246        (1,021,979)
                                                                                                                                                                                              7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                               5,916,838              1,807,246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,854,172            5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,869,912      7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4,869,912
                                                                                                                            2020 Funding




  STRALIAN
  L POLICE FEDERAL POLICE        AUSTRALIAN
                                         7,514 FEDERAL POLICE  7,514-                   7,514
                                                                                           -                                                                            7,514
                                                                                                                                                                            7,514-                 7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7,514 -                    - 7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            7,514 7,514
                                                                                                                             Balance c/f




 INA                             CHINA
                                    1,491,808            1,491,808-               1,491,808-                                                                       1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                      2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                       1,491,808              3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                               2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -               1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,953,081            2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,953,081
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,824,851      3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,824,851
                                                         Reconciliation of Income and Expenditure - Trust Fund (Sum by Donors)




CRETARIAT
 MMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT COMMONWEALTH   (4,240)        SECRETARIAT
                                                             (4,240)-                 (4,240)
                                                                                           -                                                                          (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                          (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                          16,070                  11,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                  (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11,830              16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    11,830 -           11,830       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 41 -
RNATIONAL
 NSERVATION INTERNATIONAL CONSERVATION
                                     (96,622)      INTERNATIONAL
                                                           (96,622)-                 (96,622)
                                                                                           -                                                                        (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                        (96,622)-               (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -              (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (96,622) -                   (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -          (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (96,622)
IRO                              CSIRO (1,247)               (1,247)-                 (1,247)
                                                                                           -                                                                          (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247)-               (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247) -                    (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -            (1,247)(1,247)
  GLOBAL                         DT GLOBAL    -                     --                     - -                                                                          183,542
                                                                                                                                                                              - -               183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                 183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                  183,542 - -            183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -         183,542183,542
                                                                                                                                    (3,377)
                                                                                                                               (1,021,979)




                                                                                                                               (1,190,338)




                                                                                                                               (2,117,372)




                                                                                                                                   (27,292)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (36,417)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4,514,759)
                                                                                                                                      (285)
                                                                                                                                  (117,692)




                                                                                                                                        (7)
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -


                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -


                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                          -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                          -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
 ROPEAN UNION                    EUROPEAN
                                    4,519,157 UNION (1,190,338)
                                                         4,519,157            (1,190,338)
                                                                                  3,328,819                                                                        4,519,157
                                                                                                                                                                      7,712,102
                                                                                                                                                                       3,328,819        (1,190,338)
                                                                                                                                                                                             11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                               7,712,102              11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,328,819
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,455,734            7,712,102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,455,734
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,585,187     11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,585,187
                                                                                                                            Reallocation




ENCH POLYNESIA                   FRENCH
                                      314,040
                                            POLYNESIA 314,040-                       314,040
                                                                                           -                                                                         314,040
                                                                                                                                                                        250,000
                                                                                                                                                                         314,040                564,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                 250,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                 314,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         564,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           200,408              250,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   200,408
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      363,632         564,040363,632
                                                                                                                               2020




CHD                              GICHD 21                         21-                      -21                                                                              21 21-                    - 21-                    21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21 -                    - - 21              21 21
DEEN CLIMATE FUND                GREEN161,220
                                          CLIMATE FUND 161,220-                      161,220
                                                                                           -                                                                         161,220
                                                                                                                                                                         161,220-               161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -               161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           122,295                 122,295
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       38,925
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -             161,22038,925
TERNATIONAL
 NOMICS CONSULTING
                ECONOMICS CONSULTING
                                 INTERNATIONAL
                                       16,270       ECONOMICS16,270- CONSULTING 16,270     -                                                                          16,270
                                                                                                                                                                          16,270-                 16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16,270 -                     16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -            16,27016,270
TERNATIONAL
ERATION OF RED  FEDERATION
                  CROSS    OF REDINTERNATIONAL
                                    CROSS9,829      FEDERATION 9,829- OF RED CROSS9,829    -                                                                            9,829
                                                                                                                                                                            9,829-                 9,829
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  9,829
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9,829 -                    - 9,829
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            9,829 9,829
PAN                              JAPAN256,256          (2,117,372)
                                                           256,256            (2,117,372)
                                                                                (1,861,116)                                                                         (1,861,116)
                                                                                                                                                                     256,256
                                                                                                                                                                      2,261,396         (2,117,372)
                                                                                                                                                                                               2,261,396
                                                                                                                                                                                                400,280             (1,861,116)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         400,280
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31,767           2,261,396
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31,767
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      368,513         400,280368,513
                                                                                                                                   (4,240)
                                                                                                                                  (96,622)
                                                                                                                                   (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (84,864)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (250,109)
                                                                                                                                     1,002
                                                                                                                                       977




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16,752,098
                                                                                                                                     7,514




                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                     9,829




                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                     3,968

                                                                                                                                     5,442

                                                                                                                                     2,464

                                                                                                                                     8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                    16,270




                                                                                                                                    19,467




                                                                                                                                    28,830

                                                                                                                                    12,457


                                                                                                                                    52,862



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   37,885


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                36,417
                                                                                                                                  314,040

                                                                                                                                  161,220


                                                                                                                                  256,256
                                                                                                                                  117,630


                                                                                                                                  517,349


                                                                                                                                  188,825




                                                                                                                                  336,123
                                                                                                                                2,829,225

                                                                                                                                1,491,808




                                                                                                                                4,519,157

                                                                                                                                        21




                                                                                                                                2,535,011




                                                                                                                                3,678,143




PAN
  RIBUTION
      ANNUAL CONTRIBUTION        JAPAN117,630
                                          ANNUAL CONTRIBUTION
                                                         (117,692)
                                                           117,630              (117,692) (62)                                                                       117,630(62)-          (117,692) (62)-                   (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (62)                    (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -     -           (62)      -
                                                                                                                            2019 Carry
                                                                                                                             Forward




  REA                            KOREA
                                    2,535,011            2,535,011-               2,535,011-                                                                       2,535,011
                                                                                                                                                                      3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                       2,535,011              5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                               3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -               2,535,011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,059,312            3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,059,312
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,668,231      5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3,668,231
  MBERS                          MEMBERS
                                       19,467                19,467-                   19,467
                                                                                           -                                                                          19,467
                                                                                                                                                                        403,816
                                                                                                                                                                          19,467                423,283
                                                                                                                                                                                                 403,816
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                  423,283
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19,467
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           321,341              403,816
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   321,341
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      101,942         423,283101,942
 W ZEALAND                       NEW517,349
                                       ZEALAND             517,349-                  517,349
                                                                                           -                                                                         517,349
                                                                                                                                                                         517,349
                                                                                                                                                                          88,350                605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                  88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                 517,349
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9,331             88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,331
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      596,368         605,699596,368
 MANIA                           ROMANIA -                          --                     - -                                                                            75,320
                                                                                                                                                                              - -                 75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                  75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                   75,320 - -             75,32075,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -          75,32075,320
FE GROUND                        SAFE GROUND
                                         3,968                 3,968-                   3,968
                                                                                           -                                                                            3,968
                                                                                                                                                                            3,968-                 3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,968 -                    - 3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            3,968 3,968
AIN                              SPAIN188,825              188,825-                  188,825
                                                                                           -                                                                         188,825
                                                                                                                                                                        126,518
                                                                                                                                                                         188,825                315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                 126,518
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                 188,825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         315,343 -              126,518
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -         315,343315,343
                                                                                                                                                    BENEFITS DERIVED FROM PROPERTY, PLANT &
                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF RED CROSS




ANDING FUND                      STANDING5,442FUND             (285)
                                                               5,442                  (285)
                                                                                        5,157                                                                           5,442
                                                                                                                                                                            5,157-              (285)
                                                                                                                                                                                                   5,157-                  5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,157 -                    - 5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            5,157 5,157
                                                                                                                                                    WOMEN'S ENVIRONMENT & DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                                    INTERNATIONAL ECONOMICS CONSULTING




 IWAN                            TAIWAN
                                    3,678,143            3,678,143
                                                                 (7)              3,678,136
                                                                                         (7)                                                                       3,678,143
                                                                                                                                                                      4,399,159
                                                                                                                                                                       3,678,136              8,077,295
                                                                                                                                                                                               4,399,159
                                                                                                                                                                                                   (7)                3,678,136
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,077,295
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,728,861            4,399,159
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,728,861
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6,348,434      8,077,295
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS FROM DONORS




UND
ADE ADVOCACY FUND                TRADE2,464
                                          ADVOCACY FUND2,464-                           2,464
                                                                                           -                                                                            2,464
                                                                                                                                                                            2,464-                 2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,464 -                    - 2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            2,464 2,464
                                                         Supplementary Information




                                                                                                                                                    NET EFFECT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE




  DP                             UNDP28,830                  28,830-                   28,830
                                                                                           -                                                                          28,830
                                                                                                                                                                          28,830-                 28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,830 -                     28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -            28,83028,830
                                                                                                                                                    UNIVERSITY OF THE SOUTH PACIFIC
                                                         As at 31st December 2020




                                                                                                                                                    CONSERVATION INTERNATIONAL




  ESCO                           UNESCO  8,988                 8,988-                   8,988
                                                                                           -                                                                            8,988
                                                                                                                                                                            8,988-                 8,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  8,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             8,988 -                    - 8,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            8,988 8,988
                                                                                                                                                    UN OFFICE OF PROJECT SERVICES
                                                                                                                                                    COMMONWEALTH SECRETARIAT




                                                                                                                                                    JAPAN ANNUAL CONTRIBUTION




                                                                                                                                                    WORLD TRADE ORGANISATION
                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIAN FEDERAL POLICE




  IFEM                           UNIFEM12,457                12,457-                   12,457
                                                                                           -                                                                          12,457
                                                                                                                                                                          12,457-                 12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,457 -                     12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -            12,45712,457
                                                                                                                                                    UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




MERICA
  ITED STATES OF AMERICA         UNITED
                                      336,123
                                           STATES OF AMERICA
                                                           336,123
                                                            (3,377)                 (3,377)
                                                                                     332,746                                                                         336,123
                                                                                                                                                                         332,746
                                                                                                                                                                          14,615              (3,377)
                                                                                                                                                                                                347,361
                                                                                                                                                                                                  14,615                332,746
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         347,361
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1,207)             14,615
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1,207)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      348,568         347,361348,568
                                                                                                                                 Donor




                                                                                                                                                    TRADE ADVOCACY FUND




  IVERSITY
  OUTH PACIFIC
            OF THE SOUTH PACIFICUNIVERSITY 977 OF THE SOUTH977    PACIFIC
                                                                    -                     977
                                                                                           -                                                                              977977-                    977
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                     977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               977 -                    - 977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -              977 977
                                                                                                                                                    GREEN CLIMATE FUND




TOFFICE
    SERVICES
          OF PROJECT SERVICES UN OFFICE52,862OF PROJECT(27,292)
                                                            SERVICES
                                                             52,862               (27,292)
                                                                                       25,570                                                                         1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                      52,862
                                                                                                                                                                          25,570             (27,292)
                                                                                                                                                                                              1,095,035
                                                                                                                                                                                               1,069,465               1,095,035
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25,570
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             22,240           1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,072,795
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22,240         1,095,035
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,072,795
                                                                                                                                                    FRENCH POLYNESIA




OMEN'S
ENT & DEVELOPMENT
          ENVIRONMENT & DEVELOPMENT
                                 WOMEN'S 1,002ENVIRONMENT1,002  & DEVELOPMENT
                                                                    -                   1,002
                                                                                           -                                                                            1,002
                                                                                                                                                                            1,002-                 1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                      - -                  1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,002 -                     - 1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -            1,002 1,002
                                                                                                                                                    INTEREST INCOME
                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Financial Statements
                                                                                                                                                    STANDING FUND




 GANIZATION                      ORGANIZATION
                                                                                                                                                    ORGANIZATION
                                                                                                                                                    NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                    SAFE GROUND




                                                                                                                                                    WORLD BANK




ORLD BANK                        WORLD
                                     (84,864)
                                           BANK            (84,864)-                 (84,864)
                                                                                           -                                                                          (84,864)
                                                                                                                                                                         (84,864)
                                                                                                                                                                         586,943                 502,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                 586,943
                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                   (84,864)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          502,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             540,382             586,943
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    540,382
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (38,303)                          502,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (38,303)
                                                                                                                                                    EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA




                                                                                                                                                    DT GLOBAL




ORLD
 NISATION
        TRADE ORGANISATION       WORLD 37,885
                                           TRADE ORGANISATION37,885-                   37,885
                                                                                           -                                                                            37,885
                                                                                                                                                                           37,885-                37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                     - -                   37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            37,885 -                    37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - -                              37,88537,885
                                                                                                                                                    MEMBERS

                                                                                                                                                    ROMANIA



                                                                                                                                                    TAIWAN


                                                                                                                                                    UNESCO




ROM
NEFITS PROPERTY,
          DERIVEDPLANT
                  FROM PROPERTY,
                        &        BENEFITS
                                   PLANT &DERIVED
                                              -        FROM PROPERTY,
                                                                    --       PLANT & - -                                                                                 264,945
                                                                                                                                                                              - -                264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                 264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                    264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -               264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    264,945 -                           264,945     -
                                                                                                                                                    UNIFEM
                                                                                                                                                    KOREA
                                                                                                                                                    CHINA




                                                                                                                                                    GICHD



                                                                                                                                                    JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                    CSIRO




                                                                                                                                                    SPAIN




 UIPMENT                         EQUIPMENT
                                                                                                                                                    UNDP




TEREST INCOME                    INTEREST
                                       36,417INCOME       (36,417)
                                                             36,417               (36,417) -                                                                          36,417 --              (36,417) --                         -- -                  - - -                       -     -
 TGNEFFECT
      EXCHANGE
            OF FOREIGN EXCHANGENET  (250,109)
                                      EFFECT OF FOREIGN  (250,109)
                                                               EXCHANGE
                                                                    -              (250,109)
                                                                                           -                                                                       (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                      (250,109)-               (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     - -                (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (197,937)             (197,937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (52,172)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -                   (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (52,172)
ONS
TALFROMCONTRIBUTIONS
             DONORS FROM DONORS TOTAL
                                   16,752,098
                                          CONTRIBUTIONS(4,514,759)
                                                        16,752,098
                                                                FROM DONORS   (4,514,759)
                                                                                 12,237,339                                                                       16,752,098
                                                                                                                                                                     28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                     12,237,339           (4,514,759)
                                                                                                                                                                                             41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                              28,847,735               12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,376,493         28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28,708,581              41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28,708,581




 ial Statements                  Financial Statements                                                                                               - 41 -   - 41 -                                           - 41 -       31 December 202031 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                               93
-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      408,854

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        424,264
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,025,416




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            210,805
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,989



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39,922
                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,181




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 297,344
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (33,484)
                                                                                                                                                                   Forward




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    381,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             686,400
                                                                                                                                                                    Carry
                                                                                                                                                                     2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,204,761

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      313,786
                                                                                                                                                                                          1,288




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,112
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       66,731




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        96,195
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53,101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28,601
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (90)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31,870




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 79
                                                                                                                                                                      Expenditure
                                                                                                                                                                         2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        520,459
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            213,917
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (33,484)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70,720




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,230,177
                                                                                                                                                                                          1,288




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39,922




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      722,640
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,181




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53,101



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 297,423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44,022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    381,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             715,001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (90)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        31,870
                                                                                                                                                                   Total 2020

                                                                                                                                                                   Available
                                                                                                                                                                    Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      501,267
                                                                                                                                                                                          -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       70,720



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            179,234
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,881,728




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        520,459




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             715,001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 297,423
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    381,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        19,080
                                                                                                                                                                   Received
                                                                                                                                                                   Funding
                                                                                                                                                                     2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          348,449
                                                                                                                                                                                          1,288




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (33,484)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39,922




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,181




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      221,373
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34,683




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                53,101
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (90)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44,022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,790




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                   Balance c/f
                                                                                                                                                                    Funding




pplementary InformationSupplementary Information
                                                                                                                                                                      2020




 onciliation of Income and
                       Reconciliation
                           Expenditureof -Income
                                           Trust Fund
                                                  and Expenditure
                                                       (Detail by Donors)
                                                                   - Trust Fund (Detail by Donors)
 at 31st December 2020As at 31st December 2020
nformation
                                                                                                                                                                                          (28,612)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (77,791)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                      Reallocation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (44,923)
                                                                                                                                                                         2020




ome and Expenditure - Trust Fund (Sum by Programmes)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
2020                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2020          2020         Total 20202020          2020 202
                                                                          Project                                                                                                         Budget                                                               Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2019 Carry     2020 Budget  Funding       Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2019 Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (33,484)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      221,373
                                                                                                                                                                                          29,900




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         39,922




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          348,449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,181
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,790




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            34,683




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         44,022




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                98,024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 77,701




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                      2019 Carry
                                                                                                                                                                       Forward




 Donor                       Project Name
                                       Donor                               code   Project
                                                                                   KRA Name
                                                                                          Prog                                                                                             Type                                                                 code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Prog      Type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Balance Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c/f    Received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c/f    ReceivedForwa
                                                           Reconciliation of Income and Expenditure - Trust Fund (Detail by Donors)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2020                                                                                                             Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - 42 -
                              2019 Carry                  2020                                                                                                   2020 Funding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2020                                                                                             2020 Carry
 RALIA           Prog
               Public Sector Dialogue
                                 AUSTRALIA
                                      (XB)             Public
                                                          1010XB
                                                              Sector Dialogue
                                                                       PI Balance
                                                                              (XB)
                                                                               OPT2                                                                                                                                                                              Funding                                                                                                                              Funds
                               Forward              Reallocation                                                                                                         c/f XB                                                                                 1010XB29,900PI                                                                                                                   OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (28,612) XB                                                                                             1,288 29,900
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Expenditure (28,612)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - Forward1,288 1,288                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,288                         -
                 code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Received                                                                                                                         Available
 RALIA         PIPSO Review     AUSTRALIA               PIPSO
                                                           1012XB
                                                              Review PI        OPT2    XB                                                                                                                                                                       1012XB12,790PI                                                                                                                  OPT2                                                    - XB                                12,790 12,790 19,080                                                                                                                                                                  - 31,870 12,790 31,870 19,080
                                                                                                                                                                      Budget




                               5,635,789              (842,645)                4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                                           7,848,909                                                                                                       12,642,053        3,137,540                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,504,513
                                                                                                                                                                       Type




nce                PI
                                                                                                                                                                                          XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB
RALIA          PACER Plus Signatories
                                AUSTRALIA
                                      Meeting (Pacific) PACER
                                                            1222
                                                              Plus Signatories
                                                                       PI      Meeting
                                                                               KRA2 (Pacific)
                                                                                       XB                                                                                                                                                                                         1222       PI                                                                                                  KRA2    XB        -         70,720                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           70,720       -                                                                      66,731 70,720                        3
e                 PS           6,151,757              (129,679)                6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                                           8,236,120                                                                                                       14,258,198        4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,642,464
RALIA          PACER Plus Meetings
                               AUSTRALIA                  PACER
                                                             1223
                                                                Plus Meetings
                                                                        PI                                                                                           OPT2                                        XB                                                               1223(33,484)PI                                                                                                OPT2   - XB (33,484)(33,484)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - (33,484)(33,484)                                                                                                     (33,
p and                              565,584            (2,120,892)                                                                                                  (1,555,308)                                                                                                     3,795,880                                                                                                        2,240,572          266,271                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                           Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                          OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPT2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KRA2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PER1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PER1




                   ST
 RALIA         PACER Plus Rules of
                                AUSTRALIA
                                   Origin Workshop        PACER
                                                             1224
                                                                Plus Rules
                                                                         PIof Origin
                                                                                 OPT2Workshop
                                                                                            XB                                                                                                                                                                                    1224 39,922PI                                                                                                  OPT2                                                   - XB                                 39,922 39,922                                                                                                                               -                                        - 39,922 39,922                                                                                         -      - 39
                   CS            (746,177)               (602,466)                                                                                                 (1,348,643)                                                                                                         344,393                                                                                                     (1,004,250)           67,022                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                           KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MS

               Strengthening Trade Negot. skills -FICs Strengthening Trade Negot. skills -FICs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI
                                                                                                                                                                                          PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI




 Secretariat
 RALIA             MS
               on PACER        5,358,837
                                AUSTRALIA              (819,077)
                                                        on PACER
                                                            1234      PI     4,539,760
                                                                             OPT2           XB                                                                                                                                                                                      8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1234 77,701PI                                                                                                 OPT213,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (77,791) XB         4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (90) 77,701                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (77,791)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -           (90) (90)                                                                                                         (90)                      -
Movement                    (250,109)
                    FX Property                                        -            (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                                                                   (250,109)                -                                                                                                                                                                                                               (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1012XB
                                                                                                                                                                                          1010XB
                                                                                                                                                                      Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1911A




               Intellectual     - Trademarks              Intellectual Property - Trademarks
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1223

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1224




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1376




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1384

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1385
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1386




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1383




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1911
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1234

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1304




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1387

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1394
                                                                                                                                                                       code




 RALIA         Admin II      AUSTRALIA
                                36,417                    Admin1304 - PI           OPT236,417XB                                                                                                                                                                                   1304(36,417)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        44,022PI                                                                                                OPT2    - XB -44,022 44,022   -                                                                                                                                                                                                          -      - 44,022 -44,022                                                                                                                          -      - 44
 RALIA         Aid For Trade Workshops
                                AUSTRALIA                 Aid For
                                                               1376
                                                                  Trade Workshops
                                                                         PI     OPT2                                                                                                                             XB                                                               1376 2,181PI                                                                                                  OPT2                                                    - XB                                             2,181 2,181                                                                                                                     -                                        -             2,181 2,181                                                                               -      -     2
BUTIONS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PACER Plus Signatories Meeting (Pacific)




                               16,752,098             (4,514,759)                                                                                                  12,237,339                                                                                                     28,847,737                                                                                                                          41,085,076                                                                                       12,376,489                                                                                                                               28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Strengthening Trade Negot. skills -FICs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PACER Plus Rules of Origin Workshop




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support to PT&I Sydney Governance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PIF Geneva Operations (DFAT Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trade Policy Officer WTO (Geneva)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Intellectual Property - Trademarks




 RALIA         WTO ContributionAUSTRALIA
                                GOA-PIFS                  WTO1383
                                                              Contribution
                                                                        PI GOA-PIFS
                                                                              KRA2                                                                                                                               XB                                                               1383348,449PI                                                                                                  KRA2                                                   - XB                          348,449348,4491,881,728                                                                                                                                                                    2,230,177
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -        348,4491,204,761
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,881,728
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,025
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trade Representative (Geneva)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WTO Contribution GOA-PIFS
                                                                                                                                                                           Project Name

                                                                                                                                                                                          Public Sector Dialogue (XB)




 RALIA         Trade Representative
                               AUSTRALIA
                                    (Geneva)              Trade
                                                              1384
                                                                Representative
                                                                        PI     (Geneva)
                                                                                 PER1                                                                                                                            XB                                                               1384221,373PI                                                                                                  PER1                                                   - XB                          221,373221,373 501,267                                                                                                                                                                      - 722,640221,373 313,786501,267 408
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Aid For Trade Workshops




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PT&I Geneva Operations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Support to PT&I Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Implementation -DFAT
                                                           Supplementary Information




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trade Office - Sydney
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PACER Plus Meetings
                                                                                                                                      As at 31st December 2020




 RALIA         Trade Policy Officer
                                 AUSTRALIA
                                    WTO (Geneva)          Trade
                                                              1385
                                                                Policy Officer
                                                                          PI WTO
                                                                               PER1
                                                                                 (Geneva) XB                                                                                                                                                                                      1385                                                         PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                  PER1                                                  - XB                                                                -                                                        - 520,459                                                                                    - 520,459                                                                   - 96,195520,459 424
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PIPSO Review




 RALIA         PT&I Geneva Operations
                              AUSTRALIA                   PT&I1386
                                                               Geneva Operations
                                                                        PI     TCAF1                                                                                                                             XB                                                               1386 34,683PI                                                                                               TCAF1                                                     - XB                                 34,683 34,683 179,234                                                                                                                                                                - 213,917 34,683                                                                 3,112179,234 210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               on PACER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Reserve)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Phase 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Review




               PIF Geneva Operations (DFAT Funds          PIF Geneva Operations (DFAT Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Admin




 RALIA         Reserve)        AUSTRALIA                  Reserve)
                                                              1387      PI      KRA2       XB                                                                                                                                                                                     1387                                                         PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                 KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                                      XB                                                               -                                                         - 381,858 -                                                                                        381,858                                                               -                           -381,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                381,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Financial Statements




               Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative- Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative-
 RALIA         Phase 2             AUSTRALIA              Phase
                                                              1394
                                                                 2         PI      KRA2          XB                                                                                                                                                                               1394                                                         PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                 KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -                                                      XB                                                               -                                                         - 715,001 -                                                                                        715,001                                                               - 28,601715,001
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           686,4
               Support to PT&I Review                     Support to PT&I Review
                                                                                                                                                                           Donor

                                                                                                                                                                                          AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AUSTRALIA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AUSTRALIA




 RALIA         Implementation -DFAT
                                AUSTRALIA                 Implementation
                                                              1911      MS-DFAT TCAF1                                                                                                                            XB                                                               1911 98,024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS                                                                                             (44,923)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TCAF1                                                         XB                                 53,101 98,024                                                                                                               (44,923)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                                                                   53,101 53,101 53,101                                                                              - -


               Support to PT&I Sydney Governance          Support to PT&I Sydney Governance
 RALIA         Review           AUSTRALIA                 Review
                                                             1911A      MS      TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                           1911A                                                                  MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                            TCAF1                                                      - XB                                                               -                                                         - 297,423                                                                                    - 297,423                                                                   -                79297,423 297
 RALIA         Trade Office - Sydney
                                 AUSTRALIA                Trade
                                                              2120
                                                                Office - Sydney
                                                                           PI   TCAF1                                                                                                                            XB                                                               2120                                  117PI                                                                 TCAF1                                                     - XB                                                          117                                        117                                                                     -                                        -              117                                   117                                                -      -


 cial Statements                Financial Statements                                                                                                               - 40 -                                                                                                         - 42 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 42 -                                                      31 December 2020                                                                                                                     31 December 2020


           94                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                            (96,111)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (37,497)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,841




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104,902
                                                                                                            33,718




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,711




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    459,565




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,563




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                    (7,377)




                                                                                                                                                                                               3,921

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,641




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          732




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                             Forward
                                                              Carry
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          142,775

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,318
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    86,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3,662)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                    2,730




                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                Expenditure
                                                                   2020




                                                                                                                                            (96,111)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          142,775
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (37,497)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,841




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104,902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,318
                                                                                                            33,718




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,711




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,563




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    546,029




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                               3,921




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69,085
                                                                                    (4,647)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,979




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          732




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                             Total 2020

                                                             Available
                                                              Funds




                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                               -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                             Received
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          142,775
                                                                                                                                            (96,111)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104,902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (37,497)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,841




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,318
                                                                                                            33,718




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,711



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    546,029




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,563




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69,085
                                                                                                                                                                                               3,921
                                                                                    (4,647)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,979




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          732




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)
                                                             Balance c/f
                                                              Funding
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2020                                                                         2020                                                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2020                                                               2020
 nformation                                         Project                                       Budget
                                                                                                     Project 2019 Carry             Budget
                                                                                                                                 2020                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2019 Carry                                                                   Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2020                                                                                                  Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Funding                                                               Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2020
      Donor                 Project
 Income    and Expenditure     -Donor
                                    Name
                                 Trust   Fund (Sumcode  ProjectKRA
                                                        by      Name Prog
                                                            Donors)  PER1.
                                                                                                   Typecode Forward
                                                                                                                KRA        Prog
                                                                                                                             Reallocation
                                                                                                                          PER1.
                                                                                                                                     Type                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    c/f                                                                   Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Received                                                                                                Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Balance c/f                                                          Expenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Received




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (175,660)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (6,695)
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (5)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                    -
                                                                Reallocation




mber 2020
 AUSTRALIA      PT&I- General
                          AUSTRALIA
                              Manager       PT&I- General
                                                     2150ManagerPI     1                            XB 2150       PI
                                                                                                                   (4,647) 1           XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4,647)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4,647)               --        (4,647)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (4,647)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,730 -
                                                                   2020




                                2019 Carry                  2020              2020 Funding            2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020 Carry
Donor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2020 Expenditure
                                 Forward             Reallocation               Balance c/f             Received             Available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Forward
  AUSTRALIA      Conflict Prevention
                              AUSTRALIAand Peace      Conflict Prevention
                                                                   2220      and
                                                                               GEPeaceOPT1          XB 2220       GE
                                                                                                                   33,718 OPT1         XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            33,718
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        33,718                --         33,718
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          33,718                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                                     2,829,225              (1,021,979)                1,807,246            5,916,838             7,724,084                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,854,172               4,869,912
 L POLICE                                 7,514                        -                    7,514                     -                7,514                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   7,514




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104,902
                                                                                                                                            (96,111)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (37,497)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,841
                                                                                                            33,718




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,711




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          318,435
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,563




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28,013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    546,029
                                                                                                                                                                                               3,921




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,979




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               69,085
                                                                                    (4,647)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          732




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)
                                                                2019 Carry




  AUSTRALIA      Election Observation
                              AUSTRALIA  PNG -DFAT Election Observation
                                                                   2432       PNG
                                                                               GE -DFAT OPT1        XB 2432 2,286,124
                                                                                                                 (96,111)
                                                                                                                  GE      OPT1 3,777,932
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (96,111)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (96,111)                --       (96,111)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (96,111)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                                                                 Forward




                                     1,491,808                         -               1,491,808                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,953,081               1,824,851
CRETARIAT                               (4,240)Technical               - Drafters' Technical
                                                                                          (4,240)              16,070                11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11,830                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - 43 -
                 Pacific Legislative Drafters'        Pacific Legislative
 RNATIONAL
  AUSTRALIA      Forum        AUSTRALIA(96,622)       Forum        2525-       GE       (96,622) XB 2525
                                                                                        OPT1                          -
                                                                                                                 GE3,921  OPT1     (96,622)
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,921       -       --      (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,921                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
                                        (1,247)                        -                  (1,247)                     -              (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                 (1,247)
                 FOC-SC: Regional Security &- PacificFOC-SC: Regional  - Security & Pacific -                 183,542               183,542                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                183,542
                                                                Budget
                                                                 Type




  AUSTRALIA      Fusion CentreAUSTRALIA
                                     4,519,157        Fusion   Centre
                                                                   2527
                                                            (1,190,338)        PD       OPT1
                                                                                       3,328,819    XB 2527 7,712,102
                                                                                                                 PD2,979 OPT1 11,040,921
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,979
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,979
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,455,734        --          2,979
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,979
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,585,187                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (3,662) -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                            XB

                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                               XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                    XB




                                       314,040                         -                 314,040              250,000               564,040                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    200,408                 363,632
  AUSTRALIA      Climate Change
                              AUSTRALIA
                                   Resourcing21ProjectClimate Change
                                                                   3460- Resourcing     OPT2 21 XB 3460
                                                                               PD Project                             -
                                                                                                                  PD3,711 OPT2         XB 21
                                                                                                                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,711
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,711       -       --              21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,711
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,711                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
 D                                     161,220                         -                 161,220                      -             161,220                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    122,295                  38,925
                                                                     PER1.
                                                                     Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OPT3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OPT3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT1
                                                                                                            OPT1

                                                                                                                                            OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                               OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PER1
                                                                       1




 NOMICS CONSULTING                       16,270                        -                  16,270                      -              16,270                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                 16,270
                 Support for Pacific Resilience
ERATION OF RED CROSS                      9,829 Working
                                                      Support for Pacific
                                                                       -    Resilience Working
                                                                                            9,829                     -                9,829                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   9,829
                                                                     KRA




  AUSTRALIA      Group -DFAT  AUSTRALIA256,256        Group (2,117,372)
                                                               -DFAT
                                                                   3469        ST (1,861,116)
                                                                                        KRA2        XB 3469 2,261,396
                                                                                                                 546,029
                                                                                                                  ST      KRA2      400,280
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            546,029 31,767
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     546,029                  --       368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       546,029
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         546,029                                                                                                                                                                                                                                86,464 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PD

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PD
                                                                                                                                            GE
                                                                                                            GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE
                                                                                                                                                                                               GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST
                                                                                    PI




 RIBUTION                              117,630                (117,692)                      (62)                     -                 (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (62)                        -
                 Support to Aus. Dev. Partner Peer Support to Aus. Dev. Partner Peer
                                     2,535,011                         -               2,535,011            3,192,532             5,727,543                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,059,312               3,668,231
  AUSTRALIA      Review       AUSTRALIA               Review 3624              PD       OPT1        XB 3624      PD 732 OPT1           XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               732
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            732               --             732
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              732                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
                                                                Project




                                         19,467                        -                  19,467              403,816               423,283                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    321,341                 101,942
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4020
                                                                                                                                            2432




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4011
                                                                                                            2220
                                                                                    2150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3460




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4704

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4708




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4736
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4721

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4722




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5538
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4739
                                                                                                                                                                                               2525

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2527




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3469

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3624

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3684
                                                                 code




                                       517,349
                 Forum Compact Implementation/Phase   Forum Compact    - Implementation/Phase
                                                                                         517,349               88,350               605,699                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,331                596,368
  AUSTRALIA      II - AUS     AUSTRALIA        -      II - AUS 3684    -       PD       OPT1 - XB 3684 75,320    PD69,085 OPT1       75,320
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            69,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69,085        -       --        75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         69,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          69,085                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                                          3,968                        -                    3,968                     -                3,968                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Forum Compact Implementation/Phase




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Support Pac Reg Education Framework
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support for Pacific Resilience Working




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pacific Regional Strategy on Disability




                                       188,825                         -                 188,825              126,518               315,343                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                315,343
                                                                                                                                                                             Pacific Legislative Drafters' Technical




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support to Pac Delegation at Global




  AUSTRALIA      Support to ITAUSTRALIA
                                Infrastructure        Support to 4011
                                                                   IT Infrastructure
                                                                               CS       OPT3        XB 4011      (37,497)
                                                                                                                  CS      OPT3         XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (37,497)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (37,497)                --       (37,497)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (37,497)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Climate Change Resourcing Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FOC-SC: Regional Security & Pacific




                                          5,442                   (285)                     5,157                     -                5,157                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Support to Aus. Dev. Partner Peer
                                                                                                                                            Election Observation PNG -DFAT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PEDF M&E Framework - AUSAID




                                     3,678,143                      (7)                3,678,136            4,399,159             8,077,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,728,861               6,348,434
                                                                                                            Conflict Prevention and Peace




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ICT Services Upgrade Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Social Inclusion-Activity Cost




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pacific Plan Adviser Support
                                                                     Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Support to IT Infrastructure




UND
  AUSTRALIA      ICT ServicesAUSTRALIA    2,464
                               Upgrade Project        ICT Services4020 -
                                                                    Upgrade    Project
                                                                               CS       OPT32,464 XB 4020             -
                                                                                                                  CS5,563 OPT3         2,464
                                                                                                                                       XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,563
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5,563       -       --          2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5,563
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,563                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
                                         28,830                        -                  28,830                      -              28,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                 28,830
                                                                                    PT&I- General Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Social Inclusion Advisor




                                          8,988                        -                    8,988                     -                8,988                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   8,988
  AUSTRALIA      Support PacAUSTRALIA
                               Reg Education FrameworkSupport Pac  4704
                                                                     Reg Education
                                                                               GE Framework
                                                                                        OPT2        XB 4704       GE
                                                                                                                   30,841 OPT2         XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            30,841
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30,841                --         30,841
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30,841                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      --
                                         12,457                        -                  12,457                      -              12,457                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                 12,457
MERICA                                 336,123                  (3,377)                  332,746               14,615               347,361                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,207)                348,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Disability Sum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Fusion Centre




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Group -DFAT




 OUTH  PACIFIC
  AUSTRALIA                   AUSTRALIA - 977
                 PEDF M&E Framework         AUSAID PEDF M&E 4708       -
                                                                   Framework   PD
                                                                                - AUSAIDOPT1977 XB 4708           PD -150 OPT1         XB977
                                                                                                                                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            150       -       --            977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              150                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     --
 T SERVICES                              52,862                (27,292)                   25,570            1,069,465             1,095,035                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,240               1,072,795
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               II - AUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Review
                                                                                                                                                                             Forum




ENT & DEVELOPMENT                         1,002                        -                    1,002                     -                1,002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                   1,002
  AUSTRALIA      Social Inclusion
                              AUSTRALIA
                                   Advisor            Social Inclusion
                                                                   4721Advisor PD       PER1        XB 4721      318,435
                                                                                                                  PD      PER1 (175,660)
                                                                                                                                       XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            142,775
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       318,435         (175,660)       142,775
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         142,775                                                                                                                                                                                                                       142,775
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Financial Statements




                                       (84,864)                          -              (84,864)                                                                                                                                                               586,943                                                                                                                                               502,079                                                                                   540,382                                                                                                                                                             (38,303)
 NISATION
  AUSTRALIA                              37,885
                  Social Inclusion-Activity
                              AUSTRALIA     Cost                         -
                                                          Social Inclusion-Activity
                                                                      4722                37,885
                                                                                 PDCost KRA2                                                                                                                                                           XB 4722    PD -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28,013 KRA2                                                                                                                                        37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (6,695)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB                                                                               21,318
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28,013      - (6,695)                                                                                                                                                       37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,318
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21,318                                                                    21,318
 ROM PROPERTY, PLANT &                         -                         -                     -                                                                                                                                                               264,945                                                                                                                                              264,945                                                                                    264,945                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                     Donor

                                                                                    AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                               AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             AUSTRALIA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AUSTRALIA




 AUSTRALIA      Pacific Regional
                             AUSTRALIA
                                 Strategy  on Disability
                                       36,417       Pacific Regional
                                                                4736 Strategy
                                                            (36,417)       PD on Disability
                                                                                   OPT2 -                                                                                                                                                              XB 4736            5 OPT2      XB(5) -                        PD -                                                                                                                                                                                                      -5     -                                                                               (5)                                                    -- -                                                                                     -
 GN EXCHANGE                        (250,109)
                Support to Pac Delegation           Support to Pac-Delegation at Global
                                            at Global                             (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                            -          (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (197,937)                                                                                                                              (52,172)
ONS FROM DONORS Disability Sum
 AUSTRALIA                        16,752,098
                             AUSTRALIA                   (4,514,759)
                                                    Disability Sum
                                                                4739       GE 12,237,339
                                                                                   OPT2                                                                                                                                                                XB 473928,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GE (15) OPT2 41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (15)                                                                                  15 -                                             28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (15)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -                                                                                      15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

  AUSTRALIA             Pacific Plan AUSTRALIA
                                     Adviser Support      Pacific Plan5538
                                                                       Adviser Support
                                                                                 PD    OPT1                                                                                                                                                            XB 5538                                                      104,902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PD      OPT1                                                                                              XB -                                                        104,902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           104,902                                                                                                                    --                                                               104,902
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        104,902                                                                       --


 Financial Statements             Financial Statements                                                      - 41 -                                                                                                                                                                               - 43 -                                                                                                                                                                            - 43 -                                            31 December 2020                                                                                                                                                                 31 December 202


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    95
-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        702,872
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  693,284
                                                                                                               (25,140)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             399,365




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,824,851
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       18,616
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       357,515
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6,392




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,346
                                                                                   911




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               330,117
                                                                                                                                                                   72,563




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                          58,762




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,388
                                                            Forward
                                                             Carry
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  229,797




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              186,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              160,400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,674,588
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  246,236




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,854,172




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,346)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             96,213




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,953,081
                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,357
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       143,221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                   1,264




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               36,680
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (18,669)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                               Expenditure
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  229,797




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              186,085
                                                                                                               (25,140)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              160,400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,377,460
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  939,520




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             495,578
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7,724,084




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22,973




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6,392




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                   911




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       500,736
                                                                                                                                                                   73,827




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               366,797
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                          40,093
                                                            Total 2020

                                                            Available
                                                             Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              435,236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              373,054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  541,763




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,274,804
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,916,838
                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,281
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       643,242




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               366,797
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                            Received
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                               (25,140)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (311,966)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (249,151)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (212,654)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             495,578
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  939,520




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22,973




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,281)
                                                                                   911




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6,392
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,807,246
                                                                                                                                                                   73,827

                                                                                                                                                                                                          40,093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,514




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (142,506)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,388




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                            Balance c/f
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                           Project                                                                                                                                               Budget                                                    Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Funding        Funding 2020 Funds Funding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2019 Carry
 Donor                       Project Name
                                       Donor                code                        Project
                                                                                        KRA NameProg                                                                                                              Type                                                      code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Prog       Type
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Balance c/f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      c/f    ReceivedForwar

nformation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (688,278)
                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,021,979)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          (15)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                               Reallocation




 ALIA    Pacific Plan ReviewAUSTRALIA
                             (XB)                        Pacific
                                                             5541Plan Review
                                                                         PD (XB)OPT1                                                                                                                                             XB                                                   5541                                   911
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PD                                      OPT1                                -                 XB               911                                                                     911                                  -                                           -                      911                        911                                                -      -
                                                                  2020




 ome
 ALIA and Expenditure       - AUSTRALIA
           Review of GovernanceTrust  Fund (Sum
                                 & Financing         byofProgrammes)
                                                Review
                                                    5542 Governance
                                                               ST     &
                                                                      OPT1
                                                                        Financing XB                                                                                                                                                                                                  5542(25,140)ST                                                                   OPT1                                -                 XB      (25,140)(25,140)                                                                                                      -                                           - (25,140)(25,140)                                                                                   -      -(25,1
 2020      Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance - Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (249,151)
                                                                                                               (25,140)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (311,966)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (212,654)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,122




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       22,973
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,627,798




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6,392




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             495,578




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,281)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,102,656
                                                                                   911




                                                                                                                                                                                                          40,108




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (142,506)
                                                                                                                                                                   73,827




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,829,225




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,514




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,388




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
 ALIA          DFAT               AUSTRALIA              DFAT5654                                         ST                                          ASF1                                                                       XB                                                   5654 73,827ST                                                                    ASF1                               -                  XB           73,827 73,827                                                                                                    -                                           - 73,827 73,827                                                                     1,264                   - 72,
                                                               2019 Carry
                                                                Forward




               Support for PIF Members attendance at Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                                                                                                                                    2020                                                                                    Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 44 -
 ALIA          BBNJProg        2019 Carry
                                 AUSTRALIA            2020
                                                     BBNJ
                                                        5655        MS 2020  Funding
                                                                          TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                              5655 40,108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS                                                                     TCAF1(15) XB                                                                2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40,093 40,108                                                                                                                        2020   Carry40,093 (18,669)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (15) 40,093                                                                                                                            58,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Funding                                                                               Funds
                                Forward               Reallocation                                                          Balance c/f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Expenditure                                                                                                         Forward
                  code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Received                                                                                    Available
 ALIA          Support to OPOC -DFAT
                                AUSTRALIA
                                     Funding             Support
                                                            5656to OPOC
                                                                      MS-DFATTCAF1
                                                                              Funding                                                                                                                                            XB                                                   5656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,627,798
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS                                                                     TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (688,278)                                             XB      939,520
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,627,798                                                                                                        (688,278)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -        939,520939,520 246,236                                                                                                                        -693,
                                                               Budget




                               5,635,789                 (842,645)             4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                                                7,848,909                                                                         12,642,053         3,137,540                                                                                                                                                                                       9,504,513
                                                                Type




nce                 PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                   XB

                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




 ALIA          Ocean Analyst & Manager
                                AUSTRALIA                Ocean
                                                            5691
                                                               Analyst &
                                                                       MSManager
                                                                              PER1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                             5691
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (311,966)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS                                                                      PER1 - XB (311,966)(311,966) 541,763                                                                                                                                                                                   - 229,797
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (311,966) 229,797541,763
e                  PS          6,151,757                 (129,679)             6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                                                8,236,120                                                                         14,258,198         4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                       9,642,464
pALIA
  and                           565,584                (2,120,892)           (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                                                3,795,880                                                                      PER1 2,240,572          266,271                                                                                                                                                                                       1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PER1.
                                                                    Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1
                                                                                   OPT1

                                                                                                               OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PER1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PER1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF
                                                                                                                                                                   ASF1




               Ocean Communications
                             AUSTRALIA
                                    Officer              Ocean
                                                            5692
                                                               Communications
                                                                       MS     PER1
                                                                               Officer XB                                                                                                                                                                                             5692
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (212,654)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS                                                                             - XB (212,654)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (212,654) 373,054                                                                                                                                                                                   - 160,400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (212,654) 160,400373,054
                      ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1




 ALIA          OceanCS       (746,177)
                     Management
                             AUSTRALIA
                                Officer                  (602,466)
                                                         Ocean
                                                            5693
                                                               Management (1,348,643)
                                                                     MS Officer
                                                                           PER1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                                 5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (249,151)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS         (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PER1    - XB (249,151)      67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (249,151) 435,236 (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      - 186,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (249,151) 186,085435,236
                                                                    KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS
                                                                                   PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PD
                                                                                                               ST

                                                                                                                                                                   ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI




 Secretariat
RALIA Total       MS          5,358,837
                               AUSTRALIA Total           (819,077)                                                                                    4,539,760                                                                                                                         8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,829,225          13,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,021,979)    1,807,246  4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,829,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,916,838      8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (1,021,979)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,807,246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4,869,
 ALIAN
Movement           FX          (250,109)
                               AUSTRALIAN                          -                                                                                  (250,109)                                                                                                                                    -         (250,109)                      -       (250,109)
                                                               Project




                                                                                                               5542
                                                                                   5541




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5691

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5692




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2141
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              5693



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2256




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1034
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2105




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3681
                                                                                                                                                                                                          5655




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2108
                                                                                                                                                                   5654




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2112



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2224
                                                                code




 AL POLICE     VAW Scoping Study
                               FEDERAL POLICE            VAW2256
                                                             Scoping Study
                                                                      GE                                                                             OPT1     XB                                                                                                                      2256 6,392GE     OPT1 - XB         6,392 6,392          -      - 6,392 6,392            -      - 6,
                    II            36,417                           -                                                                                      36,417                                                                                                                          (36,417)                     -                    -                    -
 ALIAN                          AUSTRALIAN
BUTIONS
AL POLICE      Inter-Agency Border
                                FEDERAL
                                   Training
                                          POLICE         Inter-Agency
                                                             2547     Border
                                                                       GE Training
                                                                             OPT1                                                                                                                                                XB                                                   2547 1,122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GE                                                                      OPT1                                -                 XB            1,122 1,122                                                                                                     -                                           -              1,122 1,122                                                                           -      - 1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Support PT&I Network including Review
                                                                                                                                                                                         Support for PIF Members attendance at




                              16,752,098               (4,514,759)                                                                                12,237,339                                                                                                                                28,847,737                                                                                      41,085,076                                                                              12,376,489                                                                                    28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
                                                                                                                                                  Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -




RALIAN                          AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I
                                                                                                               Review of Governance & Financing




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB




 AL POLICE                      FEDERAL POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ocean Communications Officer




                                Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7,514                                                                             -                                7,514 7,514                                                                                                     -                                           -              7,514 7,514                                                                           -      - 7,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Inter-Agency Border Training
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Ocean Management Officer
                                                                    Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               China Scholarship Publicity
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Ocean Analyst & Manager




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trade Office - Beijing - XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Trade Development (XB)
                                                                                   Pacific Plan Review (XB)




               Pacific Resilience Facility-China
                                   CHINA         XB      Pacific
                                                             1034Resilience
                                                                          PIFacility-China
                                                                                   KRA2 XB XB                                                                                                                                                                                         1034495,578PI                                                                    KRA2                                -                 XB      495,578495,578                                                                                                        -                                           - 495,578495,578 96,213                                                                                     -399,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        VAW Scoping Study




               Trade Office - Beijing
                                   CHINA
                                      - XB               Trade
                                                             2105
                                                               Office - Beijing
                                                                         MS - XBTCAF1                                                                                                                                            XB                                                   2105
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS                                                                     TCAF1                               -                 XB 1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,274,804                                                                                                                                               2,377,460
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -      1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,674,588
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,274,804702,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               of Structure




               Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I          Deputy Trade Commissioner
                                                                             PER1.- PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PER1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C)-PRC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Beijing
                                                                                                                                                  DFAT

                                                                                                                                                                                         BBNJ




               Beijing         CHINA                     Beijing
                                                              2108     PI      1         XB                                                                                                                                                                                           2108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (142,506)PI                                                                      1                                -                  XB (142,506)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (142,506) 643,242                                                                                                                                               - 500,736
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (142,506) 143,221643,242357,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Financial Statements




               Support PT&I Network including Review Support PT&I Network including Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUSTRALIA Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEDERAL POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEDERAL POLICE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FEDERAL POLICE




               of Structure    CHINA                 of Structure
                                                         2112      MS      TCAF       XB                                                                                                                                                                                              2112 14,388
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS                                                                     TCAF                               -                  XB           14,388 14,388                                                                                                    -                                           -                                   - 14,388                                                                - 14,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUSTRALIAN
                                                                    Donor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         AUSTRALIAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AUSTRALIAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHINA Total
                                                                                   AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                               AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                   AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                          AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AUSTRALIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AUSTRALIA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              AUSTRALIA




               Trade Development CHINA
                                   (XB)              Trade
                                                         2141
                                                            Development
                                                                    PI (XB)KRA2        XB                                                                                                                                                                                             2141 22,973PI                                                                    KRA2                                -                 XB           22,973 22,973                                                                                                    -                                           - 22,973 22,973                                                                     4,357                   - 18,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        CHINA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CHINA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHINA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CHINA




               Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP- Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Total




               C)-PRC            CHINA               C)-PRC
                                                         2224      PD       KRA2       XB                                                                                                                                                                                             2224                                        PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                    KRA2                               -                  XB                                                     -                                   - 366,797                                                                      - 366,797                                                             - 36,680366,797330,

               China Scholarship Publicity
                                 CHINA                   China
                                                             3681
                                                               Scholarship
                                                                        PD Publicity
                                                                                KRA2                                                                                                                                             XB                                                   3681 (1,281)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PD                                                                    KRA2                                -                 XB           (1,281) (1,281)                                                                                   1,281                                                      -                                   - (1,281) (1,346) 1,281 1,
  Total                           CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,491,808                                                                                                    -                       1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,286,124                                                                                                                                             3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -     1,491,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,953,081
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,824,

cial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                                                              - 40 -                                                                                                                             - 44 -                                                                                                                                                 - 44 -                                                                     31 December 2020                                                                                                    31 December 2020


             96               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (92,351)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6,993)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                100,844
                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        183,542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (669)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,763)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      166,016
                                                                                                                                                  (96,622)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    123,378
                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)

                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  732,869




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1,933)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21,720
                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   183,542
                                                            Forward
                                                             Carry
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     631

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               89,074




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         56,922
                                                                                     11,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   123,138




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30,773
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    91,259
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                      11,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,254
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,933
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                               Expenditure
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3,277)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,763)
                                                                                     11,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        183,542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    214,637




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131,617
                                                                                                                                                  (96,622)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  732,869



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (38)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   144,858
                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)
                                                                                                                      11,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   183,542
                                                            Total 2020

                                                            Available
                                                             Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        183,542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                     16,070




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                      16,070




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                           -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   183,542
                                                            Received
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3,277)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,763)
                                                                                     (4,240)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  732,869



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (38)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   144,858




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131,617
                                                                                                                                                  (96,622)




                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                      (4,240)




                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247)
                                                            Balance c/f
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2020          2020         Total 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2020           2020    20
  nformation                                    Project                                                                                                                  Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Carry                                                                                           2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020
   Donor               Project Name
                                 Donor            code Project
   Income  and Expenditure        - Trust Fund (Sum     byKRA   NameProg
                                                             Donors)                                                                                                      Type code Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                         KRA                                                                                         Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c/f   Received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Received Forw
MMONWEALTH                COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                               Reallocation




mber   2020 Hub & Spoke Project
 RETARIAT                 SECRETARIAT
                                - ComSec    Hub & 1420
                                                  Spoke Project
                                                             PI - ComSec
                                                                    TCAF1                     XB                                                                                                 1420 (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI     TCAF1        -XB      (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4,240)     16,070                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -    11,830 (4,240)                                                                                                11,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,070
                                                                  2020




MMONWEALTH                      2019 Carry
                             COMMONWEALTH                 2020              2020 Funding                                                                                                         2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2020 Carry
Donor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2020 Expenditure
                                 Forward              Reallocation            Balance c/f                                                                                                          Received             Available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forward
RETARIAT                     SECRETARIAT
 l                           Total 2,829,225              (1,021,979)                1,807,246                                                                                                         5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4,240)              7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -        (4,240)   2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (4,240)     16,070                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -       4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,830 (4,240)                                                                                                11,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,070
 L POLICE                                 7,514                      -                    7,514                                                                                                                  -                7,514                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3,277)
                                                                                     (4,240)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (38)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         49,929


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131,617
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,763)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   144,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  732,869
                                                                                                                                                  (96,622)




                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,247)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      168,270
                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)
                                                                                                                      (4,240)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,247)
                                                               2019 Carry




 SERVATION    Conservation Interntional
                             CONSERVATION
                                        Sup. for Pac Conservation Interntional   Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                      for Pac
                                                                Forward




                                     1,491,808                       -                                                                                                                                 2,286,124             3,777,932             1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1,824,851
 RNATIONAL
CRETARIAT     Ocean Comm. INTERNATIONAL (4,240)      Ocean  5652
                                                            Comm.    -  ST      TCAF1         XB
                                                                                        (4,240)                                                                                                  5652 (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                          16,070   TCAF1        -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 11,830 (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (96,622)  11,830 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - (96,622)(96,622) -                                                                                                                       -   - (96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - 45 -
 SERVATION
 RNATIONAL                   CONSERVATION
                                      (96,622)                       -                 (96,622)                                                                                                                  -            (96,622)                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (96,622)
 RNATIONAL                   INTERNATIONAL
                                        (1,247)                      -                  (1,247)                                                                                                                  -              (1,247)                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,247)
 l                           Total             -                     -                         -                                                                                                      (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                         183,542                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               183,542  (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (96,622)        - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - (96,622)(96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    183,542                                                                                                                          -   - (96
                                                               Budget
                                                                Type




                                     4,519,157            (1,190,338)                3,328,819                                                                                                         7,712,102            11,040,921             2,455,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
              SOI Regional Capacity Development SOI Regional Capacity Development
                                       314,040                       -                 314,040                                                                                                           250,000               564,040                200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       363,632
 O            Workshop       CSIRO                   Workshop
                                                            5653        MS      TCAF1         XB                                                                                                 5653 (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS      TCAF1        -XB      (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,247)          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -    (1,247)(1,247)                                                                                                                        -   -   (1
                                              21                     -                       21                                                                                                                  -                   21                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             21
                                                                                     TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                     TCAF1




 D                                     161,220                       -                 161,220                                                                                                                   -             161,220                122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         38,925
                                                                    Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PER1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PER1




 O Total                     CSIRO Total                                                                                                                                                                (1,247)                 -        (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -    (1,247)(1,247)                                                                                                                        -   -   (1
 NOMICS CONSULTING                      16,270                       -                   16,270                                                                                                                  -               16,270                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16,270
Global        DFAT
ERATION OF RED CROSSE-commerce
                             DT Global
                                AFT Fund9,829        DFAT E-commerce
                                                            1458     - PIAFT Fund
                                                                                KRA2 9,829    XB                                                                                                 1458       PI - - KRA2         -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,829        -    -   183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 183,5429,829-                                                                                                                   183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -     18
                                                                    KRA




                             DT Global256,256             (2,117,372)              (1,861,116)                                                                                                         2,261,396               400,280                 31,767                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                     MS




Global Total                            Total                                                                                                                                                                                                           183,542                                                                                                                                                                                                                               183,542                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           183,542 18
                                                                                                                                                  ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI
                                                                                     PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
 RIBUTION                              117,630              (117,692)                      (62)                                                                                                                  -                 (62)                  (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                     2,535,011                       -               2,535,011                                                                                                         3,192,532             5,727,543             2,059,312                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,668,231
                                                               Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1002H




              Public Finance Management 19,467
                                           &                         -
                                                     Public Finance Management     & 19,467                                                                                                              403,816               423,283                321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       101,942
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1008
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3477
                                                                                     1420




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1458




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3480
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3481
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3476
                                                                                                                                                  5652




                                                                                                                                                                                                     5653




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3475




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3482
                                                                code




 OPEAN UNION  Governance EUROPEAN      517,349
                                         UNION       Governance
                                                            1002     - PI       KRA2 517,349  XB                                                                                                          88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1002 732,869
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI     KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -XB          732,869 9,331 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        732,869                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 732,869 596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     732,869                                                                                                                         -   - 73
                                               -                     -                         -                                                                                                          75,320                 75,320                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        75,320
                                          3,968                      -                    3,968                                                                                                                  -                3,968                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     4: Bank Charges & Exch rate differences




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
                                                                                                                                Conservation Interntional Sup. for Pac




                                       188,825                       -                 188,825                                                                                                           126,518               315,343                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                      SOI Regional Capacity Development




 OPEAN UNION  4: Bank ChargesEUROPEAN
                              & Exch rateUNION
                                           differences
                                          5,442      4: Bank
                                                           1002H
                                                             Charges
                                                                 (285) &PI
                                                                         Exch rate
                                                                                OPT2
                                                                                   differencesXB
                                                                                          5,157                                                                                                 1002H      (38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI - OPT2           -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,157     (38) (38)        - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -        (38)5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (38)                                                                                                         631               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Private Sector Cl. Change-Finance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PFM Programme Administrator




                                     3,678,143                     (7)               3,678,136                                                                                                         4,399,159             8,077,295             1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Public Finance Management &
                                                                                     Hub & Spoke Project - ComSec




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DFAT E-commerce AFT Fund
                                                                    Project Name




UND
 OPEAN UNION  PFM Programme  EUROPEAN     2,464
                               Administrator
                                         UNION       PFM Programme
                                                            1003     - Administrator
                                                                        PI       PER1 2,464   XB                                                                                                            PI - PER1
                                                                                                                                                                                                 1003 (3,277)                     2,464 (3,277)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -XB           (3,277)        - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -    (3,277)  2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3,277)                                                                                                89,074                      - (92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Travel & Subsistence - 1.2




                                        28,830                       -                   28,830                                                                                                                  -               28,830                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Finance Officer - 1.1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PFM Research Officer




                                          8,988                      -                    8,988                                                                                                                  -                8,988                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Coordinator-1.1.1




                                        12,457                       -                   12,457                                                                                                                  -               12,457                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Office Costs - 1.3




 OPEAN UNION
MERICA        PFM Research Officer
                             EUROPEAN    UNION
                                       336,123       PFM Research
                                                            1008    Officer
                                                               (3,377)  PI       PER1 332,746 XB                                                                                                 1008       PI -
                                                                                                                                                                                                          14,615    PER1        -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               347,361         -    - (1,207) -                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    348,568   -                                                                                               1,933                      -   (1
                                                                                                                                Ocean Comm.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Officer-1.1.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Governance




 OUTH PACIFIC                               977                      -                      977                                                                                                                  -                  977                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            977
                                                                                                                                                                                      Workshop




 T SERVICES                             52,862                (27,292)                   25,570                                                                                                        1,069,465             1,095,035                 22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,072,795
              PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
 ENT & DEVELOPMENT                        1,002      PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                     -                    1,002                                                                                                                  -                1,002                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1.1




 OPEAN UNION  Coordinator-1.1.1
                             EUROPEAN UNION          Coordinator-1.1.1
                                                            3475        PI       PER1         XB                                                                                                 3475 144,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI      PER1        -XB     144,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             144,858           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 144,858  144,858                                                                                                123,138                      -   2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Financial Statements




                                          (84,864)
              Private Sector Cl. Change-Finance                          - Change-Finance
                                                        Private Sector Cl.                (84,864)                                                                                                          586,943                                                                          502,079                540,382                                                                                                                                                                                             (38,303)
                                                                                   COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                   COMMONWEALTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION




 NISATION     Officer-1.1.2 EUROPEAN37,885                               - PI        PER1 37,885                                                                                                              PI -                                                                            -37,885                     -                                                                                                                                                                                               37,885
                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL




 OPEAN UNION                                 UNION      Officer-1.1.2
                                                                3476                            XB                                                                                                  3476 214,637                                                                     PER1      XB     214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           214,637                                                                                                                                             -                          -                        214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         214,637                                                                             91,259                      - 12
                                                                                                                                INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                CONSERVATION
                                                                                                                                CONSERVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   DT Global Total




 ROM PROPERTY, PLANT &                           -                       -                       -                                                                                                          264,945                                                                          264,945                264,945                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                   SECRETARIAT
                                                                                   SECRETARIAT
                                                                    Donor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CSIRO Total




 OPEAN UNION  Finance Officer EUROPEAN
                                - 1.1.3      UNION      Finance3477
                                                                 Officer - 1.1.3
                                                                            PI       PER1       XB                                                                                                  3477 49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI                                                                     PER1     -XB      49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            49,929                                                                                                                                             -                          -                         49,92949,929                                                                             56,922                      -   (6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        DT Global




                                            36,417               (36,417)                        -                                                                                                                -                                                                                 -                     -                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
 OPEAN UNION  Travel & Subsistence
                                EUROPEAN
                                      - 1.2 UNION       Travel &3480
                                                                  Subsistence
                                                                            PI - 1.2 OPT2       XB                                                                                                  3480 (4,763)
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI                                                                     OPT2     -XB      (4,763)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4,763)                                                                                                                                            -                          -                         (4,763)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (4,763)                                                                                                    -   -   (4
                                                                                                                                                                                                     CSIRO
                                                                                   Total




                                                                                                                                Total




  GN EXCHANGE                            (250,109)                       -              (250,109)                                                                                                                 -                                                                        (250,109)              (197,937)                                                                                                                                                                                             (52,172)
 ONS FROM
 OPEAN     DONORS
       UNION  Office Costs - 1.3EUROPEAN16,752,098
                                             UNION      Office(4,514,759)
                                                               Costs
                                                                3481 - 1.3 PI          12,237,339
                                                                                     KRA2       XB                                                                                                  3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                          131,617
                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI                                                                     KRA2 41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -XB     131,617   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           131,617                                                                                                                                             -                          -                          28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   131,617
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         131,617                                                                             30,773                      - 10
                  Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-ActEst RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
 OPEAN UNION      1.1             EUROPEAN UNION      1.1 3482          PI     KRA2      XB                                                                                                         3482 168,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI                                                                      KRA2                           -XB                                                 168,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             168,270                                                                           -                          -                        168,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        168,270                                                                               2,254                      - 16


 ncial Statements               Financial Statements                                                                - 41 -                                                                                         - 45 -                                                                                                                                                       - 45 -                              31 December 2020                                                                                                                             31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                          Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            97
-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2,048,277)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,321,467)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   272,177
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (369,056)
                                                                                    55,520




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (259,929)
                                                                                                                                                                                 366,261



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             65,523




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         219,839
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (181,767)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,674)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,608,609

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         88,316




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (48,139)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              508
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,160
                                                                                                                                       31,993




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       77,249



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (19,907)
                                                            Forward
                                                             Carry
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            143




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,398)
                                                                                    9,666




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29,638




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                 102,874




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (597)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (147)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                       600




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (968)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (30)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,251




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                               Expenditure
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,321,452)
                                                                                    65,186




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (369,653)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2,048,134)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   270,779
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (259,929)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         88,316




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (181,767)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,607,641




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              508
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         219,809




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,000
                                                                                                                                                                                 469,135




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,160
                                                                                                                                       32,593




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       84,500



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (19,907)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (48,139)
                                                            Total 2020

                                                            Available
                                                             Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                 535,973




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       51,907



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                            Received
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (1,321,452)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   270,779
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2,048,134)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (181,767)
                                                                                    65,186




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (369,653)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (259,929)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         219,809




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,605
                                                                                                                                                                                 (66,838)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              508
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,607,641

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         88,316
                                                                                                                                       32,593




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,160




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (19,907)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (48,139)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       32,593
                                                            Balance c/f
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                           Project                                                                                                                            Budget                                                       Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2019 Carry
 Donor                                Donor
                            Project Name                    code                   Project
                                                                                   KRA NameProg                                                                                                Type                                                         code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (602,458)
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                       (587,880)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                               Reallocation




                           AUSTRALIA                     Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                                                                                                      5541                                   PD                                                           OPT1                                                            XB                                                                                                  911                                                                                                      -                                                                               911                                         -
PEAN UNION Dev FRDP's M&R Framework -Act 2.2                 3485        PI      KRA2                                                                                                                      XB                                                                                            65,186                                                                                                     -                                                       65,186                                                                                                                -                                                                 65,186                                                                                9,666                         55,
                                                                  2020




ome and Expenditure         - AUSTRALIA
                               Trust
           Sth-Sth Collab-IK&Cap      Fund (Sum
                                 shrg-Climat      byofProgrammes)
                                             Review   Governance & Financing                                                                                                                                                                                           5542     ST                                                                                     OPT1                                                                XB                                     (25,140)                                                                                                                                                              -                (25,140)                                                                                                   -
 2020
PEAN UNION Action-Act 4.1                        3486       PI     OPT2       XB
                                             Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          620,473                                                                                      (587,880)                                                                                            32,593                                                                                                                -                                                                32,593                                                                                  600                          31,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (718,994)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   270,779
                                                                                    65,186




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (2,048,134)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         219,809




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             95,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (369,653)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,605




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              508
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (259,929)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (181,767)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,607,641

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         88,316




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            12,160
                                                                                                                                       620,473




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,000
                                                                                                                                                                                 (66,838)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (19,907)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (48,139)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       32,593




                                 AUSTRALIA          DFAT                                                                                                                                                                                                               5654                                                  ST                                            ASF1                                                            XB                                                                             73,827                                                                                                                        -                                                        73,827                                                             -
                                                               2019 Carry
                                                                Forward




               Strgc Eng&Dia-Private Sector-Bldg
                                                    Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                                                                                                                 2020                                                                                        Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 2020(66,838) 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 46 -
               CC&DR -Act 6.12019 Carry              2020           PI 2020    Funding                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (15) Carry40,093
PEAN UNION                                             3487                 KRA2     XB                                                                                                                                                                                   (66,838)                                                                                                             535,973                                                                                                                                                                                                                              469,135      102,874                                                                                                                             366,
                   Prog          AUSTRALIA          BBNJ                                                                                                                                                                                                               5655
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Funding MS                                                                                 TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB          40,108
                               Forward
               Access_Prv Sector-CC & DR Info&CapReallocation
                                                  -                      Balance c/f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Expenditure                                                                                                                  Forward
PEAN UNION         code
               KS-Act 6.2                              3488to OPOC  PI -DFATKRA2                                                                                                                                                                                       Received                                                                                                                 Available
                                 AUSTRALIA          Support                  Funding XB                                                                                                                                                                                5656 32,593
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MS                                                                                TCAF1                           -                                       XB                               32,593
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,627,798 51,907
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (688,278) 84,500939,520                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7,251                     - 77,
                                                               Budget




                                5,635,789             (842,645)              4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                                   7,848,909                                                                                            12,642,05395,161 3,137,540 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                             9,504,513
                                                                Type




nce            AdminPI
                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB
                                                                                                                                                                                 XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                       XB




PEAN UNION            Cost/Fee (PACRES)
                                 AUSTRALIA               3489
                                                      Ocean Analyst &PIManager
                                                                           OPT2     XB                                                                                                                                                                                 5691 95,161
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MS                                                                                        PER1 - XB         (311,966)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 95,161(311,966)                                                                                                29,638541,763 65,
e                               6,151,757
                    PS Coporation
               Technical           Facility PE 1- EDF (129,679)              6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                                   8,236,120                                                                                            14,258,198        4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                              9,642,464
p andUNION                        565,584              (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                                  3,795,880                                                                                         PER1 2,240,572         266,271 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCAF1
                                                                    Prog




PEAN           10                                           3508    MS       TCAF1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                  (19,907)                                                                                                - XB (19,907)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - (19,907)                                                                                                                         -373,054(19,9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OPT2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OPT2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OPT2
                                                                                    KRA2

                                                                                                                                       OPT2



                                                                                                                                                                                 KRA2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA2




                                 AUSTRALIA               Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                                                                  5692      MS                                                                                                          (212,654)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (212,654)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ASF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ASF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ASF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ASF




                    ST
PEAN UNION         CS Advisor (746,177)
               Technical      -AUSTRALIA
                                EU/RAO                   (602,466)
                                                            3511
                                                         Ocean Management (1,348,643)
                                                                     ST Officer
                                                                           ASF     XB                                                                                                                                                                                  5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (259,929)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS                                                                                            (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PER1   - XB (259,929)    67,022 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (249,151)       (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (259,929)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -       (249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -435,236
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (259,9
                                                                    KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI
                                                                                    PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI
                                                                                                                                       PI



                                                                                                                                                                                 PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI




 Secretariat        MS           5,358,837
                                  AUSTRALIA Total        (819,077)                                                                                4,539,760                                                                                                              8,658,852                                                                                            13,198,612 2,829,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4,289,922       8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,021,979)      1,807,246                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5,916,838
PEAN UNION     Programme Officer - EU/RAO                   3512      MS                                                                         TCAF1    XB                                                                                                             (369,653)                                                                                               -    (369,653)            -      (369,653)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (597)      (369,0
Movement             FX          (250,109)
                                  AUSTRALIAN                       -                                                                               (250,109)                                                                                                                        -                                                                                          (250,109)                 -       (250,109)
                                                               Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6022
                                                                                    3485




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3489




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6005

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6011
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6012


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3511

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3512



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3519




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3517
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3518
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3513




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6024
                                                                                                                                       3486



                                                                                                                                                                                 3487

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3488



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3508




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3596
                                                                code




PEAN UNION                        FEDERAL POLICE
               TA - Short Term - EU/RAO                  VAW3513
                                                             Scoping Study
                                                                      MS                                                                         TCAF1    XB                                                                                                           2256      GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,607,641                                                                                         OPT1 - XB 2,607,641 6,392       -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,607,641   6,392                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (968)                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,608,
                      II             36,417                        -                                                                                  36,417                                                                                                               (36,417)                                                                                                     -                -                   -
                                  AUSTRALIAN
BUTIONS
PEAN UNION                        FEDERAL
               Equipment & Operations
                                16,752,098
                                           POLICE
                                        - EU/RAO         Inter-Agency Border
                                                            3516
                                                       (4,514,759)      ST Training
                                                                              ASF                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                 12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2547 88,316
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPT1                           -     88,316
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     12,376,489 - 28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      88,316                                                                                       1,122                                                                                                                -                                                                  1,122                                           -        - 88,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Technical Coporation Facility PE 1- EDF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      Access_Prv Sector-CC & DR Info&Cap -
                                                                                    Dev FRDP's M&R Framework -Act 2.2




                                  AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Techinical Cooperation Facility PE 2-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Equipment & Operations - EU/RAO
                                                                                                                        Sth-Sth Collab-IK&Cap shrg-Climat



                                                                                                                                                                  Strgc Eng&Dia-Private Sector-Bldg




                                  FEDERAL POLICE
PEAN UNION     Travel & Meetings - EU/RAO                    3517                          ST                                                               ASF                                            XB                                                            (2,048,134)                                                                                                                               -                          (2,048,134)                                                                                                                                         -                                    (2,048,134)                                                                                                         143                    (2,048,2
                                  Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7,514                                                                                                  -         7,514                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Programme Officer - EU/RAO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Travel & Meetings - EU/RAO
                                                                    Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Technical Advisor - EU/RAO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PICTA Technical Assistance

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PICTA Technical Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PICTA Travel and Meetings




PEAN UNION     Visibility - EU/RAO                           3518                     MS                                                         TCAF1                                                     XB                                                                                   219,809                                                                                                            -                                                     219,809                                                                                                                  -                                        219,809                                                                                                         (30)                       219,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Admin Cost/Fee (PACRES)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TA - Short Term - EU/RAO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EPA Technical Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EPA Travel and Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Indirect Costs - EU/RAO




PEAN UNION                        CHINA
               Indirect Costs - EU/RAO                   Pacific
                                                             3519Resilience
                                                                          STFacility-China
                                                                                    ASF XB XB                                                                                                                                                                          1034
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (181,767)PI                                                                                       KRA2                                    -                       XB (181,767)495,578                                                                                                                                    -                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (181,767)495,578                                                                                                     -        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (181,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PICTA Indirect Costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Visibility - EU/RAO




                                CHINA
               Techinical Cooperation Facility PE 2-     Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                                                                                                   2105     MS                                                                                 TCAF1                                                                   XB                                  1,102,656                                                                                                                                                                -         1,102,656                                                                                         1,274,804
                                                                                                                                                                  CC&DR -Act 6.1
                                                                                                                        Action-Act 4.1




PEAN UNION     EDF 10                                        3596        MS       TCAF1                                                                                                                   XB                                                              (48,139)                                                                                                                                 -                                                     (48,139)                                                                                                                 -                                                         (48,139)                                                                                                 -       (48,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EPA Visibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                      KS-Act 6.2




                                                         Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PER1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EDF 10




PEAN UNION     PICTA Technical Assistance
                                CHINA                         6005
                                                         Beijing       PI    OPT2         XB                                                                                                                                                                             (718,994)PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2108                                                                                           (602,458)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1       XB(1,321,452)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (142,506)                                                                                                                                                                                              -                                    (1,321,452)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -      (142,506)                                                                                                         15643,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,321,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Financial Statements




PEAN UNION     PICTA Technical Assistance                     6011PT&I Network
                                                                        PI      OPT2       XB                                                                                                                                                                               (1,821)                                                                                                                                -                                                       (1,821)                                                                                                                -                                                       (1,821)                                                                                         (147)                       (1,6
                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION




                                                         Support               including Review
PEAN UNION                      CHINA
               PICTA Travel and Meetings                 of Structure
                                                              6012      PI      OPT2       XB                                                                                                                                                                          2112 72,605
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MS                                                                                        TCAF                                    -                       XB                               72,605 14,388                                                                                                         -                                                     - 72,605 14,388                                                                                                    -        - 72,
                                                                    Donor




PEAN UNION                       CHINA
               PICTA Indirect Costs                      Trade  Development
                                                             6019       PI (XB)OPT2        XB                                                                                                                                                                          2141 12,160PI                                                                                       KRA2                                    -                       XB                               12,160 22,973                                                                                                         -                                                     - 12,160 22,973                                                                                                    -        - 12,
                                                         Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
PEAN UNION     EPA Technical Assistance
                                 CHINA                       6021
                                                         C)-PRC         PI      OPT2       XB                                                                                                                                                                          2224270,779
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PD                                                                                    KRA2                                        - XB                                                  270,779                                                                                 -                                -                                                     - 270,779                                                                                 - (1,398)366,797272,
PEAN UNION     EPA Travel and Meetings                       6022       PI      OPT2                                                                                                                       XB                                                                  508                                                                                                                                 -                                                                           508                                                                                                -                                                                                508                                                                              -
                                CHINA                    China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                                                                                                   3681      PD                                                                                        KRA2                                                            XB                                      (1,281)                                                                                                                                                              -        (1,281)                                                                                               1,281
PEAN UNION     EPA Visibility                                6024       PI      OPT2                                                                                                                       XB                                                               25,000                                                                                                                                 -                                                        25,000                                                                                                                -                                                       25,000                                                                                                    -        25,
                                CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,491,808                                                                                                                                                               -     1,491,808                                                                                            2,286,124

cial Statements                Financial Statements                                                                                            - 40 -                                                                                                                  - 46 -                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 44 -                                                                 31 December 2020                                                                                                                             31 December 2020


             98               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       269,445
                                                                                                                                    (1,563)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (6,165)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              133,507




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    177,119
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2,737)
                                                                                                                                                               241,240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,784)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,210)
                                                                                 (2,035)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               163,369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10,422
                                                                                                               44,449




                                                                                                                                                                                                   29,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,071
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,706




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               58,806




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        221

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,985

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,437
                                                          Forward
                                                           Carry
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                    (258)

                                                                                                                                                               -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (110)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (589)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (920)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (37)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                             Expenditure
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                    (1,821)

                                                                                                                                                               241,240



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (6,275)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2,737)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       268,525
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              133,507




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,210)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    176,530
                                                                                 (2,035)
                                                                                                               44,449




                                                                                                                                                                                                   29,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,821)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               163,369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10,422




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,706




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               58,806




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,071




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,985
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,437
                                                          Total 2020

                                                          Available
                                                           Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                               -
                                                          Received
                                                          Funding
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    176,530
                                                                                                                                                               241,240



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (6,275)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2,737)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       268,525
                                                                                                                                    (1,821)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              133,507




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,210)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               163,369
                                                                                 (2,035)
                                                                                                               44,449




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        221
                                                                                                                                                                                                   29,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,706

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,821)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,071




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,985

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10,422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               58,806
                                                          Balance c/f
                                                           Funding
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2020          2020                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Total 2020             2020    20
 nformation                                     Project                                                                                                                                               Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                2019 Carry                                                                                                                          2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2020
  Donor                          Donor
                        Project Name              code Project
  Income   and Expenditure        - Trust Fund (Sum     byKRA   NameProg
                                                             Donors)                                                                                                                                   Type code      KRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Forward                                                                                                                          Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Reallocation         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         c/f       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Received            Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Received Forw
                           COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                             Reallocation




mber  2020 Trade Policy Officer
 OPEAN UNION               SECRETARIAT
                                ACP/EU      Hub & 6026
                                                  Spoke Project
                                                             PI - ComSec
                                                                     PER1                    XB                                                                                                                                                       1420 (2,035)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI    TCAF1        -XB             (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2,035)                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -          (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (2,035)                                                                                                          16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -       (2
                                                                2020




                                    2019 Carry             2020             2020 Funding                                                                                                                                                              2020 Funding       Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2020 Carry




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
Donor                            COMMONWEALTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2020 Expenditure
 OPEAN UNION    EPA Indirect Costs Forward                   6029
                                                       Reallocation     PI      OPT2 c/f XB
                                                                             Balance                                                                                                                                                                         44,449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Received                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Available         44,449                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  44,449
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Forward                                                                                                             -        4
                                 SECRETARIAT
 OPEAN UNION                     Total 2,829,225
                WTO Technical Assistance
                                                           (1,021,979)
                                                             6031       PI      OPT2
                                                                                    1,807,246
                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,724,084
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -         (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (4,240)           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -       4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,821)                                                                                       16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (258)                          (1
  L POLICE                                    7,514                  -                   7,514                                                                                                                                                                       -                 7,514                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    176,530
                                                                                                                                    (1,821)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (6,275)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              133,507




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2,737)
                                                                                                                                                               241,240




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,210)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       268,525




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        221
                                                                                 (2,035)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,821)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               163,369




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,071




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,985

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       898
                                                                                                               44,449




                                                                                                                                                                                                   29,161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,706




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10,422
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,437




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               58,806
                                                             2019 Carry




                                 CONSERVATION         Conservation Interntional Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                     for Pac
                                                              Forward




                                         1,491,808                   -                                                                                                                                                                                      2,286,124            3,777,932                1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,824,851
 CRETARIAT
 OPEAN UNION                     INTERNATIONAL
                                            (4,240)
                Trade Policy Officer WTO (Geneva)     Ocean 6034
                                                             Comm. - PI         PER1 (4,240) XB                                                                                                                                                       5652 241,240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16,070  TCAF1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -11,830        (96,622) 11,830 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             241,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 241,240 (96,622)-                                                                                                   -    - 24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - 47 -
 RNATIONAL                       CONSERVATION
                                           (96,622)                  -                (96,622)                                                                                                                                                                       -            (96,622)                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (96,622)
 OPEAN UNION    WTO Indirect Costs
                                 INTERNATIONAL
                                            (1,247)          6039    -  PI      OPT2         XB
                                                                                       (1,247)                                                                                                                                                               29,161 -               -(1,247) 29,161                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  29,161(1,247)                                                                                                    -        2
                                 Total            -                  -                        -                                                                                                                                                               183,542              183,542        (96,622)          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -         (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              183,542                                                                                                          -
                                                             Budget
                                                              Type




 OPEAN UNION                             4,519,157
                Trade Policy Technical Assistance          (1,190,338)
                                                             6041 Capacity      OPT23,328,819
                                                                        PI Development       XB                                                                                                                                                             7,712,102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (6,275)            11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -         (6,275)     2,455,734 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (6,275)                                                                                    (110)                          (6
                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                    XB

                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                      SOI Regional
                                           314,040                   -                314,040                                                                                                                                                                 250,000              564,040                    200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         363,632
                                 CSIRO                Workshop                                                                                                                                                                                        5653      MS     TCAF1          XB            (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -          (1,247)                                                                                                         -
                                                 21                  -                      21                                                                                                                                                                       -                    21                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
 OPEAN
 D      UNION   Trade Policy Long-Term Consultant
                                           161,220           6045    - PI       OPT2 161,220 XB                                                                                                                                                             133,507 -               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   161,220   133,507                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 133,507                                                                                                           -        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1,247) 122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            38,925
                                                                  Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT2
                                                                                                                                    OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT2
                                                                                                               OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                   OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OPT2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PER1
                                                                                                                                                               PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PER1
                                                                                 PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PER1




                                 CSIRO Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -          (1,247)                                                                                                         -
  NOMICS CONSULTING                          16,270                    -                   16,270                                                                                                                                                                    -               16,270                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16,270
 ERATION  OF REDTrade
 OPEAN UNION      CROSS          DT Global
                       Policy Indirect Costs 9,829    DFAT E-commerce
                                                              6049     - PIAFT Fund
                                                                                  OPT2 9,829    XB                                                                                                                                                    1458 16,706PI - KRA2          -XB9,829 16,706         -       - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -    16,7069,829-                                                                                      183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -                     1
                                                                  KRA




                                 DT Global256,256
                                            Total           (2,117,372)              (1,861,116)                                                                                                                                                            2,261,396              400,280                     31,767                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         368,513                                                                                      183,542
                                                                                 PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI
                                                                                                                                    PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                               PI
                                                                                                               PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                   PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI




  RIBUTION                                 117,630            (117,692)                      (62)                                                                                                                                                                    -                  (62)                     (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
 OPEAN UNION    PIPSO Technical Assistance
                                         2,535,011            6051     - PI       OPT22,535,011 XB                                                                                                                                                           (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,192,532               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5,727,543    (1,821)     2,059,312 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (1,821)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,668,231                                                                                     (37)                     (1
                                                             Project




                                             19,467                    -
                                                      Public Finance Management      & 19,467                                                                                                                                                                 403,816              423,283                    321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         101,942
                                                                                 6026




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6041

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6045




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6052




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6062
                                                                                                                                    6031




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6061




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6071



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6079

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6087

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6089

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6091
                                                                                                                                                               6034
                                                                                                               6029




                                                                                                                                                                                                   6039




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6049

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6051



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6059




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6066
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6069



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6077
                                                              code




 OPEAN UNION    PIPSO Travel and EUROPEAN
                                   Meetings517,349
                                              UNION   Governance
                                                              6052     - PI       OPT2 517,349  XB                                                                                                                                                             88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1002 (1,210)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI    KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -XB            732,869 9,331 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,210)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -         596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              732,869
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,210)                                                                                                          -    -   (1
                                                  -                    -                         -                                                                                                                                                             75,320                75,320                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          75,320
 OPEAN UNION    PIPSO Indirect Costs          3,968           6059     - PI       OPT2 3,968    XB                                                                                                                                                             9,437 -              - 3,968     9,437               - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9,4373,968                                                                                                     -
                                           188,825                     -                 188,825                                                                                                                                                              126,518              315,343                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Trade Policy Long-Term Consultant
                                                                                                                                                               Trade Policy Officer WTO (Geneva)




                                 EUROPEAN UNION       4: Bank Charges    & Exch rate differences                                                                                                                                                     1002H       PI    OPT2           XB                (38)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -              (38)                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Aid for Trade Technical Assistance




                PT & I Technical Assistance 5,442             6061(285) PI        OPT2 5,157                                                                                                                                                                176,530 -               - 5,157 176,530                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 176,5305,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Trade Policy Technical Assistance




 OPEAN UNION                                                                                    XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (589)                          17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Trade Representative (Geneva)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Programme Monitoring Officer




                                         3,678,143                   (7)               3,678,136                                                                                                                                                            4,399,159            8,077,295                1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Forum Support Indirect Costs
                                                                                 Trade Policy Officer ACP/EU




 OPEAN UNION    PT & I Travel and  Meetings UNION             6062        PI      OPT2          XB                                                                                                                                                    1003 (2,737)                  -XB2,464 (2,737)                - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (2,737)                                                                                                          -        (2
                                                                  Project Name




 UND                                          2,464                    - Administrator 2,464                                                                                                                                                                     PI - PER1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Aid for Trade Indirect Costs
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PIPSO Travel and Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PIPSO Technical Assistance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PT & I Travel and Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PT & I Technical Assistance




                                 EUROPEAN             PFM Programme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (3,277)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -          (3,277)                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OCTA Technical Assistance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Trade Policy Indirect Costs
                                                                                                                                    WTO Technical Assistance




                                             28,830                    -                   28,830                                                                                                                                                                    -               28,830                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,830
                                              8,988                    - PI       PER1 8,988                                                                                                                                                                163,369 -               - 8,988 163,369                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 163,3698,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PIPSO Indirect Costs




 OPEAN UNION    Trade Representative (Geneva)                 6066                              XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -        16
                                                                                                                                                                                                   WTO Indirect Costs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project Accountant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PT&I Indirect Costs
                                                                                                               EPA Indirect Costs




                                             12,457                    -                   12,457                                                                                                                                                                    -               12,457                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,457
 MERICA
 OPEAN UNION                     EUROPEAN
                PT&I Indirect Costs           UNION
                                           336,123    PFM Research
                                                              6069    Officer
                                                                (3,377)   PI      OPT2 332,746  XB                                                                                                                                                    1008 58,806PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14,615   PER1        -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   347,361    58,806        - (1,207) -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -         348,568-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         58,806                                                                                                           -    -   5
  OUTH PACIFIC                                  977                    -                      977                                                                                                                                                                    -                   977                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              977
 T SERVICES                                  52,862            (27,292)                    25,570                                                                                                                                                           1,069,465            1,095,035                     22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,072,795
 OPEAN UNION    Aid for Trade Technical Assistance            6071        PI
                                                      PRP Coordinator(50%)/ProjectOPT2          XB                                                                                                                                                          268,525          -               268,525                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 268,525                                                                                     (920)                          26
 ENT & DEVELOPMENT                            1,002                    -                    1,002                                                                                                                                                                    -                 1,002                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,002
                                 EUROPEAN UNION       Coordinator-1.1.1                                                                                                                                                                               3475       PI     PER1          XB           144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -         144,858                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Financial Statements




 OPEAN UNION    Project Accountant                            6077        PI      PER1          XB                                                                                                                                                           10,422                 -         10,422                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10,422                                                                                                           -        1
                                           (84,864)                    - Change-Finance
                                                      Private Sector Cl.                 (84,864)                                                                                                                                                             586,943              502,079                    540,382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (38,303)
                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION




 NISATION                        EUROPEAN37,885
                                              UNION   Officer-1.1.2    -                   37,885                                                                                                                                                     3476       PI  -  PER1         37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB           214,637          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -          37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              214,637                                                                                                          -
 OPEAN
 ROM    UNION
      PROPERTY, Aid for Trade
                 PLANT    & Indirect Costs        -           6079     - PI       OPT2          XB
                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                                                           22,071
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              264,945               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   264,945    22,071          264,945 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  22,071       -                                                                                                   -        2
                                                                  Donor




                                 EUROPEAN UNION       Finance Officer - 1.1.3                                                                                                                                                                         3477       PI     PER1          XB             49,929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -           49,929                                                                                                         -
 OPEAN UNION    Programme Monitoring         36,417
                                          Officer              (36,417) PI
                                                              6087                               -                                                                                                                                                                   -              -XB -                           - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                 EUROPEAN     UNION   Travel &  Subsistence - 1.2 PER1          XB                                                                                                                                                    3480       221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI    OPT2                       221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -        221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (4,763)                                                                                                    -    -
  GN EXCHANGE                            (250,109)                     -               (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                     -           (250,109)                 (197,937)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (52,172)
 ONS FROM DONORS                        16,752,098
                                 EUROPEAN     UNION   Office(4,514,759)
                                                             Costs - 1.3             12,237,339                                                                                                                                                       3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI    KRA2 41,085,074XB                 12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -     28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              131,617                                                                                                          -
 OPEAN UNION    Forum Support Indirect Costs                  6089        PI      OPT2          XB                                                                                                                                                             5,985                -           5,985                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,985                                                                                                          -
                                                      Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
                                EUROPEAN UNION        1.1                                                                                                                                                                                                   3482                                                PI                                           KRA2                                                  XB                                                           168,270                                                                                                                                             -                                   168,270                                                                                -
 OPEAN UNION      OCTA Technical Assistance                   6091        PI      OPT2          XB                                                                                                                                                                                                              898                                                                                               -                                                            898                                                                                                               -                                                                     898                                                                                -


 ncial Statements              Financial Statements                                                                  - 41 -                                                                                                                                  - 47 -                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 45 -                                                    31 December 2020                                                                                                                              31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 99
-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (21,575)
                                                                                                                                                              (62,799)
                                                                                 65,074




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (82,813)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (17,139)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72,516
                                                                                                            90,721
                                                                                                                                            (21,907)



                                                                                                                                                                                         55,472




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        21,175




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         53,948




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18,080
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (81,458)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18,152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   29,555



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               13,986
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,741




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6,914
                                                          Forward
                                                           Carry
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                160,152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           61,788



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         764




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           220
                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        69,854




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7,469
                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3,805)
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    157




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               588
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      53,725




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                             Expenditure
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                              (62,799)
                                                                                                            90,721




                                                                                                                                                                                         55,472
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (17,139)
                                                                                 65,074



                                                                                                                                            (21,907)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40,213
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72,516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18,152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         54,712




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           18,300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,383
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (81,301)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        91,029
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                77,339




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14,574




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25,750




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      66,466
                                                          Total 2020

                                                          Available
                                                           Funds




                                                                                                                                                              -

                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                248,599




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           46,612
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                11,394
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20,717
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9,944
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        93,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   24,860



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6,215
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      77,687




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,036

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                          Received
                                                          Funding
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                              (62,799)
                                                                                                                                            (21,907)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (6,399)
                                                                                                            90,721




                                                                                                                                                                                         55,472
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (17,139)
                                                                                 65,074




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72,516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2,196)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,989
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (171,260)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33,995




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,356
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (81,301)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18,152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (11,221)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,359
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   890




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,982
                                                          Balance c/f
                                                           Funding
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                         Project                                                                                                                         Budget                                                 Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2019 Carry
 Donor                                Donor
                            Project Name                  code                        Project
                                                                                      KRA NameProg                                                                                        Type                                                   code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation
                                                                                                            -


                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                         -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                             Reallocation




PEAN UNION                  AUSTRALIA
           OCTA Travel and Meetings                    Pacific
                                                           6092Plan Review
                                                                       PI (XB)OPT2                                                                                                                     XB                                                  5541 65,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PD                                                                                 OPT1                                          -                 XB                          65,074                                                             911                                            -                                             - 65,074                                                 911                                             -        - 65,
                                                                2020




omeUNION
PEAN and     Expenditure
              OCTA Equipment-and
                              Trust
                             AUSTRALIAFund (Sum
                                 Operations       byofProgrammes)
                                             Review
                                                 6093 Governance
                                                          PI     &OPT2
                                                                   Financing XB                                                                                                                                                                            5542 90,721ST                                                                                OPT1                                          -                 XB                          90,721(25,140)                                                                                                     -                                            - 90,721(25,140)                                                                                         -        - 90,
 2020
PEAN UNION     OCTA Visibility                        Enhancing
                                                         6094 Pacific PI OceanOPT2
                                                                               Governance
                                                                                        XB-                                                                                                                                                                   (21,907)                                                                                                                                -                                    (21,907)                                                                                                                   -                                                  (21,907)                                                                                            -         (21,9
                                                                                                                                                              (62,799)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (17,139)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (6,399)
                                                                                 65,074




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,356
                                                                                                            90,721
                                                                                                                                            (21,907)



                                                                                                                                                                                         55,472


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         72,516




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (2,196)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,989
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (81,301)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18,152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         33,995
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (171,260)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,359




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   890




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,982
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (11,221)




                                AUSTRALIA             DFAT                                                                                                                                                                                                 5654      ST                                                                                  ASF1                                                          XB                                                                                73,827                                                                                                     -                                        73,827                                                                   -
                                                             2019 Carry
                                                              Forward




PEAN UNION     MSG Technical Assistance                  6095         PI      OPT2      XB                                                                                                                                                                    (62,799)                                                                                                                                -                                    (62,799)                                                                                                                    -                                                 (62,799)                                                                                            -         (62,7
                                                      Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                                                                                                          2020                                                                                              Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 48 -
                           2019   Carry
                              AUSTRALIA                2020
                                                      BBNJ                2020  Funding                                                                                                                                                                    5655      MS                                                                             TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB                                                                                              2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           40,108                                                                                                                       2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (15) Carry40,093
PEAN UNION     MSGProg
                   Equipment Forward
                             and Operations        Reallocation
                                                         6097         PI Balance
                                                                              OPT2 c/f XB                                                                                                                                                                   Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                55,472                                                                                     -                                                                                            Expenditure -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    55,472                                                                                                                                Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              55,472                                                                                                                         -            55,
                  code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Received                                                                                            Available
PEAN UNION     MSG Visibility AUSTRALIA                Support
                                                          6098to OPOC
                                                                    PI -DFATKRA1
                                                                             Funding                                                                                                                   XB                                                  5656(17,139)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MS                                                                              TCAF1                                            -                 XB                       1,627,798
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (17,139)                                                                                                                   (688,278)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -        (17,139)939,520                                                                                                                              -        -(17,1
                                                             Budget




                              5,635,789               (842,645)            4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                         7,848,909                                                                                      12,642,053       3,137,540                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,504,513
                                                              Type




nce                PI
                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                 XB

                                                                                                            XB
                                                                                                                                            XB



                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB




PEAN UNION                    AUSTRALIA
               OCTA/MSG Indirect Costs                 Ocean Analyst &PIManager
                                                          6099               OPT2  XB                                                                                                                                                                      5691 72,516
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MS                                                                                  PER1   - XB       (311,966)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      72,516            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 72,516
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (311,966)                                                                                             -541,763 72,
e                  PS         6,151,757               (129,679)            6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                         8,236,120                                                                                      14,258,198       4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,642,464
p and                            565,584            (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                         3,795,880                                                                                   PER1 2,240,572         266,271                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TCAF1
                                                                  Prog
                                                                                 OPT2

                                                                                                            OPT2
                                                                                                                                            OPT2



                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT2
                                                                                                                                                              OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KRA1




                                AUSTRALIA             Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                                                         5692   MS                                                                                              XB       (212,654)                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -      (212,654)                                                                                                373,054
                    ST of Intern.
               Monitoring         Human Right
PEAN UNION     Treaties Project                           6111     GE    OPT1    XB                                                                                                                                                                           (81,301)                                                                                                (81,301)             -          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (81,301)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 157       (81,4
                    CS Costs(746,177)
                                AUSTRALIA              (602,466)
                                                       Ocean Management (1,348,643)
                                                                   GE Officer                                                                                                                                                                              5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MS                                                                                     (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PER1   - XB               67,022 - (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (249,151)            - 18,152(249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -435,236 18,
                                                                  KRA




PEAN UNION     HRO Training                               6114           OPT2    XB                                                                                                                                                                             18,152                                                                                                  18,152
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GE
                                                                                                                                                              PI

                                                                                                                                                                                         PI
                                                                                 PI

                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI
                                                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI




 Secretariat                  5,358,837
                   MSSenior Technical
               TECBUF          AUSTRALIA      to the (819,077)
                                           Total
                                      Advisor                                                                                                      4,539,760                                                                                                 8,658,852                                                                                       13,198,612 2,829,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4,289,922        8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,021,979)       1,807,246                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,916,838
Movement           FX         (250,109)
                               AUSTRALIAN               6203 - MS                                                                             (250,109)                                                                                                      (171,260) -                                                                                     (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                                    (250,109)
                                                             Project




PEAN UNION     RAO Office                                                                                                                   TCAF1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                                        -    (171,260)                                                                                                                                                        248,599                                                                      77,339        160,152                                                                                               (82,8
                                                                                                                                                              6095

                                                                                                                                                                                         6097




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6207
                                                                                 6092

                                                                                                            6093




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6210
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6099




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6206
                                                                                                                                            6094




                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6098




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6114




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6204




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6208




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6211
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6111



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6203




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6209
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6205




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6214

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6215
                                                              code




                               FEDERAL POLICE        VAW Scoping Study                                                                                                                                                                                     2256      GE                                                                                 OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                       6,392                                                                                                 -         6,392                                                                                                       -
                     II               36,417                                      -                                                                                       36,417                                                                               (36,417)                                                                                               -                                                                                                                                                                                       -                                                          -
PEAN UNION                     AUSTRALIAN
               TECBUF EU-Programme   Officer           6204      MS      TCAF1   XB                                                                                                                                                                                      (2,196)                                                                                                                      -                                          (2,196)                                                                                93,225                                                                                  91,029                                                                     69,854                         21,
BUTIONS                        FEDERAL POLICE
                             16,752,098
                                                   Inter-Agency Border Training
                                 & Communications(4,514,759)             12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2547
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GE                                                                       OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,376,489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                  1,122                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TECBUF Senior Technical Advisor to the




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TECBUF Monitoring & Communications




               TECBUF Monitoring
                               AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Coordination meeting & Workshops-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Project Office Telecommunications
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TECBUF Admin & Finance Assistant




PEAN UNION     Officer                                 6205      MS      TCAF1   XB                                                                                                                                                                                  (11,221)                                                                                                                         -                                    (11,221)                                                                                     77,687                                                                                  66,466                                                                     53,725                         12,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Monitoring of Intern. Human Right




                               FEDERAL POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Travel for participants-perdiem &
                                                                                                            OCTA Equipment and Operations




                                                                                                                                                                                         MSG Equipment and Operations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Consumables & Office supplies-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TECBUF EU-Programme Officer




                               Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7,514                                                                                                    -                                                   7,514                                                          -
                                                                  Project Name




PEAN UNION     TECBUF Admin & Finance Assistant        6206      MS      TCAF1   XB                                                                                                                                                                                      (6,399)                                                                                                                      -                                          (6,399)                                                                                46,612                                                                                  40,213                                                                     61,788                      (21,5
                                                                                 OCTA Travel and Meetings




                                                                                                                                                              MSG Technical Assistance




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OCTA/MSG Indirect Costs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Annual Programme Audit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Office & IT Equipment




                                 CHINA                 Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                                                                                                1034      PI                                                                                 KRA2                                                            XB                                495,578                                                                                                                                                   -       495,578                                                                                    -
PEAN UNION     Annual Programme Audit                      6207        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                   2,989                                                                                                                                -                                              2,989        11,394                                                                                                                                              14,383                                                                                7,469         6,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   FRDP,SDGs & Other
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         HRO Training Costs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     faxes,print,freight




                                 CHINA                 Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                                                                                         2105      MS                                                                              TCAF1                                                              XB                              1,102,656                                                                                                                                                   -     1,102,656                                                                            1,274,804
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Treaties Project
                                                                                                                                            OCTA Visibility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Accomodation




PEAN UNION     Office & IT Equipment                       6208        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                  33,995                                                                                                                                -                                             33,995        20,717                                                                                                                                              54,712                                                                                  764        53,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MSG Visibility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Bank Charges
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RAO Office




                                                       Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PER1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Officer




               Consumables & Office    supplies-
                                   CHINA               Beijing                                                                                                                                                                                             2108                               PI                                                         1                                                             XB                                                       (142,506)                                                                                                                           -                (142,506)        643,242
PEAN UNION     faxes,print,freight                          6209     MS    TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                                                                                  890                                                                                                       -                                                                       890         24,860                                                                                                                                25,750         (3,805)        29,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Financial Statements
                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION




                                                       Support PT&I Network including Review
PEAN UNION     Project Office Telecommunications            6210     MS      TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                     8,356                                                                                                                                 -                                                          8,356                                                                         9,944                                                                            18,300                                                                       220                          18,
                                  CHINA                of Structure                                                                                                                                                                                        2112     MS                                                                                   TCAF                                                          XB                                                                                14,388                                                                                                     -                                        14,388                                                                   -
                                                                  Donor




PEAN UNION     Bank Charges                                 6211     MS      TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                     8,359                                                                                                                                 -                                                          8,359                                                                         6,215                                                                            14,574                                                                       588                          13,
                                  CHINA                Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                                                                                              2141     PI                                                                                  KRA2                                                            XB                                                                               22,973                                                                                                     -                                        22,973                                                                   -
                                                       Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
                               CHINA
               Coordination meeting & Workshops-       C)-PRC                                                                                                                                                                                              2224                      PD                                                                 KRA2                                                           XB                                                                                                        -                                                                                  -                                                                         -                               366,797
PEAN UNION     FRDP,SDGs & Other                            6214     MS      TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                      1,982                                                                                                                -                                                          1,982                                                                         1,036                                                                             3,018                                                                                       -        3,
                                  CHINA
               Travel for participants-perdiem &       China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                                                                                         3681                PD                                                                       KRA2                                                            XB                                (1,281)                                                                                                                                                   -                  (1,281)                                                                           1,281
PEAN UNION     Accomodation                                6215      MS       TCAF1                                                                                                                    XB                                                                 12,000                                                                                                                      -                                            12,000                                                                                                             -                                                         12,000                                                                                -        12,
                                  CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,491,808                                                                                                                                                    -               1,491,808                                                                        2,286,124

cial Statements                   Financial Statements                                                                                      - 40 -                                                                                                        - 48 -                                                                                                                                                                                                              - 44 -                                             31 December 2020                                                                                                  31 December 2020


             100                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                               27,469




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    102,303

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         302,021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,421,375
                                                                                                                                       (128,957)
                                                                                                   (15,157)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,194




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3,327
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  191,159

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,000



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25,073




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51,792

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,036




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3,018
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,168




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (44)
                                                                Forward
                                                                 Carry
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                               237,923




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (419)
                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               334




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                   Expenditure
                                                                      2020




                                                                                                                                                               265,392




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    102,319



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,421,375
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         301,602
                                                                                                   (15,157)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5,729

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,168

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3,554
                                                                                                                                       (128,957)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  191,174

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (44)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,036




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25,407




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3,018
                                                                Total 2020

                                                                Available
                                                                 Funds




                                                                                                                                                               399,243




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         57,462




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,072
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    57,462



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           501,128




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,072

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,554




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                       11,166
                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  518
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,072
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         51,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   518
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,036




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                Received
                                                                Funding
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                               (133,851)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           920,247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         244,140




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,096
                                                                                                   (15,157)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44,857




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,657




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,000
                                                                                                                                       (140,123)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (44)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  189,102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25,407
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                Balance c/f
                                                                 Funding
                                                                   2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020          2020         Total 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020           2020    20
 nformation                               Project                                                                                                                      Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                 2019 Carry                                                                                                                                                       2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2020
  Donor            Project Name
                           Donor            code Project
 Income  and Expenditure    - Trust Fund (Sum     byKRA   NameProg
                                                       Donors)                                                                                                          Type code Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA                                                                                                                                                     Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Prog      Type Balance c/f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Forward  Received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Received Forw
                     COMMONWEALTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                   Reallocation




mber 2020            SECRETARIAT      Hub & Spoke Project - ComSec                                                                                                                                                                           1420         PI     TCAF1          XB              (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -          (4,240)                                                                                               16,070
               Workshops & Meeting-
                                                                      2020




                                   2019 Carry
                                COMMONWEALTH                    2020               2020 Funding                                                                                                                                              2020 Funding          Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2020 Carry
Donor
 OPEAN UNION   PIFS,CROP,PACP,CSO      & Others                   6217        MS      TCAF1         XB                                                                                                                                             (15,157)                   -            2020 Expenditure -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (15,157)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (15,157)                                                                                                      -     (15
                                    Forward                Reallocation             Balance c/f                                                                                                                                                Received               Available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Forward
                                SECRETARIAT
                                Total     2,829,225             (1,021,979)                1,807,246                                                                                                                                                5,916,838              7,724,084                  2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -       4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (4,240)                                                                                               16,070
 L POLICE                                      7,514
               Travel for Staff & Participants-Perdiem                     -                    7,514                                                                                                                                                          -                 7,514                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7,514
                                                                                                                                                               (133,851)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           920,247




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,657

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,096
                                                                                                   (15,157)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         244,140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    44,857




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (44)
                                                                                                                                       (140,123)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  189,102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,500
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,000



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               25,407
                                                                   2019 Carry




                                CONSERVATION              Conservation
                                                                  6218 Interntional    Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                            for Pac XB
                                                                    Forward




OPEAN UNION    & Accom                    1,491,808                        - MS       TCAF1                                                                                                                                                         2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (140,123)                3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -        (140,123)      1,953,081
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             11,166                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,824,851
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (128,957)                                                                                                      -        (128
CRETARIAT                       INTERNATIONAL(4,240)      Ocean   Comm.    -                  (4,240)                                                                                                                                        5652        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16,070    TCAF1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               11,830         (96,622)    11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -         (96,622)-                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 49 -
RNATIONAL                       CONSERVATION
                                           (96,622)                        -                 (96,622)                                                                                                                                                          -            (96,622)                            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (96,622)
OPEAN UNION    Pacific Islands Rep to  ACP
                                INTERNATIONALGroup
                                             (1,247) & EU         6219     -  MS      TCAF1         XB
                                                                                              (1,247)                                                                                                                                             (133,851) -                 -(1,247) (133,851)           399,243
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   265,392(1,247)                                                                      237,923                             2
               Provision of STEsTotal               - &
                                  for sector analysis                      -                         -                                                                                                                                                183,542                183,542          (96,622)          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -         (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          183,542                                                                                                     -
                                                                   Budget
                                                                    Type




OPEAN UNION    advisory                   4,519,157             (1,190,338)
                                                                  6221 Capacity            3,328,819
                                                                              MS Development
                                                                                      TCAF1         XB                                                                                                                                              7,712,102-            11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -                  -    2,455,734
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51,792                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      51,792                                                                                                     -          5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB
                                                          SOI Regional
                                            314,040                        -                 314,040                                                                                                                                                  250,000                564,040                     200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          363,632
                                CSIRO relating to
               Workshops & Meetings                       Workshop                                                                                                                                                                           5653       MS       TCAF1          XB              (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -          (1,247)                                                                                                    -
                                                  21                       -                       21                                                                                                                                                          -                    21                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               21
OPEAN  UNION   Programming                                        6222     - MS       TCAF1 161,220 XB                                                                                                                                                       --               -                  -            1,036                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,036                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCAF1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TCAF1
                                                                                                   TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1
                                                                                                                                       TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TCAF1




D                                           161,220                                                                                                                                                                                                                          161,220            (1,247) 122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            38,925
                                                                        Prog




                                CSIRO Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -          (1,247)                                                                                                    -
 NOMICS CONSULTING                           16,270                        -                   16,270                                                                                                                                                          -               16,270                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          16,270
ERATION
OPEAN UNION                     DT Global 9,829
         OF REDWorkshops/conference/seminars_CROP
                 CROSS                                    DFAT E-commerce
                                                                  6226     - MSAFT Fund
                                                                                      TCAF1 9,829   XB                                                                                                                                       1458 44,857  PI - KRA2           -XB9,829 44,857          -        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             57,462                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 102,3199,829-                                                                                         183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16      10
                                DT Global256,256                (2,117,372)
                                                                        KRA




                                                                                         (1,861,116)                                                                                                                                                2,261,396                400,280                      31,767                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS
                                                                                                                                                               MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS
                                                                                                   MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS
                                                                                                                                       MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MS




                                             Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          183,542
 RIBUTION                                   117,630               (117,692)                      (62)                                                                                                                                                          -                  (62)                      (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
OPEAN UNION    Participant & staff travel-CROP
                                          2,535,011               6227     - MS       TCAF12,535,011XB                                                                                                                                              244,140
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,192,532                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5,727,543     244,140             57,462
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2,059,312                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     301,602
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,668,231                                                                         (419)                            30
                                                                   Project




                                             19,467       Public Finance   - MS
                                                                  6228 Management        & 19,467                                                                                                                                                     403,816                423,283                     321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101,942
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6236
                                                                                                                                                               6219




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6241
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6237

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6238
                                                                                                   6217




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6226

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6227
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6228
                                                                                                                                       6218




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6222




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6243
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6232
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6221




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6230




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6235




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6240
                                                                    code




OPEAN UNION    TA support to CROP                                                     TCAF1         XB                                                                                                                                              920,247                   -          920,247           501,128                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,421,375                                                                                                      -        1,42
                                EUROPEAN    517,349
                                              UNION       Governance -                       517,349                                                                                                                                         1002      88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PI     KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB            732,869 9,331                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -         596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          732,869                                                                                                     -
               Travel etc-Pacific Rep in COP,IMO,ICAO
                                                    -                      -                         -                                                                                                                                                 75,320                  75,320                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          75,320
OPEAN UNION    & Others                        3,968              6230     - MS       TCAF1 3,968   XB                                                                                                                                              189,102 -                 - 3,968 189,102                 2,072
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   191,1743,968                                                                                         15                19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Workshops/conference/seminars_CROP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Workshops & Meeting -Policy Dialogue-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Participant Travel, Including per diem &
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Travel etc-Pacific Rep in COP,IMO,ICAO
                                                                                                                     Travel for Staff & Participants-Perdiem



                                                                                                                                                               Pacific Islands Rep to ACP Group & EU
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Provision of STEs for sector analysis &




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Workshops & Meeting -Policy Dialgue




               Participant travel -PRIF & 188,825                          -                 188,825                                                                                                                                                  126,518                315,343                            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Travel -Policy dialogue on PRIP areas
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Equipment Hire-TCT Equipment etc..




                                            EDF 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Other logistics Costs -transport etc..




                                EUROPEAN UNION            4: Bank Charges    & Exch rate differences                                                                                                                                        1002H         PI     OPT2           XB                 (38)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -              (38)                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Workshops & Meetings relating to




OPEAN UNION    Initiatives                     5,442              6232(285) MS        TCAF1 5,157   XB                                                                                                                                               12,000 -                 - 5,157 12,000                    - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12,0005,157                                                                                                -          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Participant travel -PRIF & EDF 11
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Participant & staff travel-CROP




                                          3,678,143                      (7)               3,678,136                                                                                                                                                4,399,159              8,077,295                  1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,348,434
                                                                                       PIFS,CROP,PACP,CSO & Others
                                                                        Project Name




UND                             EUROPEAN UNION 2,464      PFM Programme    - Administrator 2,464                                                                                                                                             1003         PI - PER1              2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB              (3,277)         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -            2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (3,277)                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Catering & Entertainment




               Participant Travel, Including    per diem &
                                             28,830                        -                   28,830                                                                                                                                                          -               28,830                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          28,830
                                                                                       Workshops & Meeting-




OPEAN UNION    Accom                           8,988              6235     - MS       TCAF1 8,988   XB                                                                                                                                               25,407 -                 - 8,988 25,407                    - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   25,4078,988                                                                                  334                      2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TA support to CROP




                                             12,457                        -                   12,457                                                                                                                                                          -               12,457                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          12,457
OPEAN UNION    Catering & Entertainment                           6236        MS      TCAF1         XB                                                                                                                                                 3,657                  -            3,657              2,072                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,729                                                                              2,535
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  promoting PRIF




MERICA                          EUROPEAN      UNION
                                            336,123       PFM Research    Officer
                                                                    (3,377)                  332,746                                                                                                                                         1008         PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,615     PER1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             347,361                   - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -         348,568-                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Programming




 OUTH PACIFIC                                    977                       -                      977                                                                                                                                                          -                   977                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Initiatives
                                                                                                                     & Accom




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                & Others
                                                                                                                                                                                                       advisory




T SERVICES
OPEAN  UNION   Equipment Hire-TCT Equipment  52,862etc..           (27,292) MS
                                                                  6237                TCAF1 25,570  XB                                                                                                                                              1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,096               1,095,035
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -            3,096          22,240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,072                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,072,795
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5,168
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Accom




ENT & DEVELOPMENT                              1,002      PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                           -                    1,002                                                                                                                                                          -                 1,002                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PRIP




                                EUROPEAN UNION            Coordinator-1.1.1                                                                                                                                                                  3475         PI      PER1          XB            144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -         144,858                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Financial Statements




OPEAN UNION    Other logistics Costs -transport
                                           (84,864)etc..          6238        MS      TCAF1(84,864)
                                                                           - Change-Finance         XB                                                                                                                                                 2,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      586,943                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             502,079       2,000              1,554
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         540,382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,554
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (38,303)                                                                                  227
                                                          Private Sector Cl.
                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION




NISATION       Workshops & Meeting
                                EUROPEAN     37,885
                                         -Policy Dialogue-
                                              UNION       Officer-1.1.2    -                   37,885                                                                                                                                        3476         PI - PER1            37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB            214,637           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                                37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                214,637                                                                               -
ROM
OPEANPROPERTY,
       UNION    PLANT &
               PRIP                                 -             6240     - MS       TCAF1          -
                                                                                                    XB                                                                                                                                                264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,500                 264,945
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -            2,500         264,945518                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3,018      -                                                                         -
                                                                        Donor




                                EUROPEAN UNION            Finance Officer - 1.1.3                                                                                                                                                            3477         PI      PER1          XB              49,929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                               49,929                                                                               -
                                             36,417                (36,417)                          -                                                                                                                                                         -                     -                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
OPEAN  UNION                    EUROPEAN
               Travel -Policy dialogue  on    UNION
                                             PRIP areas Travel &    Subsistence
                                                                  6241           - 1.2TCAF1                                                                                                                                                  3480         PI     OPT2         -XB               (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                               (4,763)                                                                              -
 GN EXCHANGE                              (250,109)                        - MS            (250,109)XB                                                                                                                                                   (44)  -           (250,109)         (44)     (197,937) -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (44)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (52,172)
ONS FROM DONORS                 EUROPEAN16,752,098
                                              UNION       Office(4,514,759)
                                                                 Costs - 1.3             12,237,339                                                                                                                                          3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PI     KRA2 41,085,074XB                   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -                          28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                131,617                                                                               -
                   Workshops & Meeting -Policy Dialgue Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
 OPEAN UNION       promoting PRIF EUROPEAN UNION       1.1 6243          MS    TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                     3482                               1,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI                                                                   KRA2                                                          -XB                                              1,050
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             168,270                                                                                        518                                                                 -                                1,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    168,270                                                                      -    -


 ncial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                        - 41 -                                                                                                                                        - 49 -                                                                                                                                                                                             - 45 -                                                              31 December 2020                                                                                                                                               31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              101
-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                (143,511)
                                                                                                                           (73,275)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (50,811)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (174,533)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (14,836)
                                                                                                                                                        18,153




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (13,052)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (13,475)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (13,749)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10,661
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22,445




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          208,202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,147




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,861
                                                                                                     15,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,247
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,759,645
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  59,460

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28,361

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               68,440
                                                             Forward
                                                              Carry
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                167,091
                                                                                                                           115,380

                                                                                                                                                        22,831




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,595)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (4,530)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,636



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (356)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3,400
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               49,645




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         173,626
                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,690




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                Expenditure
                                                                   2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                23,580




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (170,897)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (14,836)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (51,167)
                                                                                                                                                        40,984
                                                                                                                           42,105




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,760,661




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (18,005)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (14,647)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10,661
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               118,085
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         22,445




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         201,987




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (13,749)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5,547




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,861
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62,150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          208,202
                                                                                                     15,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,247
                                                             Total 2020

                                                             Available
                                                              Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                165,733
                                                                                                                           175,737

                                                                                                                                                        62,438




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     41,226
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               118,085

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,760,661




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,179
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25,896




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,179




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          208,202



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4,661

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         4,661
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,036




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4,972
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         201,987
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62,150




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,036
                                                                                                     -
                                                             Received
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                (142,153)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (92,393)
                                                                                                                                                        (21,454)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (14,647)
                                                                                                                           (133,632)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (18,005)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3,451)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (176,076)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (20,015)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (14,785)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           575



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6,000

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                     15,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,211
                                                             Balance c/f
                                                              Funding
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                            Project                                                                                                                                        Budget                                                                Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2019 Carry
 Donor                                 Donor
                             Project Name                    code                          Project
                                                                                           KRA NameProg                                                                                                     Type                                                                  code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation Travel in relation policy dialgue in
                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                Reallocation




                               AUSTRALIA                  Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                                                                                                                5541                       PD                                                                           OPT1                                                                             XB                                                                                          911                                                                                                            -                                                              911                                                                -
PEAN UNION relation-PRIP                                      6244        MS     TCAF1                                                                                                                                              XB                                                                  15,000                                                                                                                                            -                                        15,000                                                                                                                     -                                                                   15,000                                                                                                        -           15,
                                                                   2020




 omeUNION
 PEAN and     Expenditure     - AUSTRALIA
               TECBUF - NSA Team Trust
                                  Leader Fund (Sum   byofProgrammes)
                                                Review
                                                    6248 Governance
                                                             MS     & Financing XB
                                                                    TCAF1                                                                                                                                                                                                         5542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (133,632)ST                                                                                           OPT1                                                            -                XB (133,632)(25,140) 175,737                                                                                                                                                                               - 42,105(25,140) 115,380                                                                                                          -(73,2
 2020                                                Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
                                                                                                                                                        (21,454)

                                                                                                                                                                                                (142,153)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9,000
                                                                                                                           (133,632)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (18,005)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (92,393)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (20,015)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           575
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3,451)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (14,647)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (176,076)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,200
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (14,785)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                     15,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,211
 PEAN UNION                     AUSTRALIA
                TECBUF - NSA Program Support Officer DFAT6249      MS      TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                                          5654(21,454)ST                                                                                          ASF1                                                            - XB                                    (21,454) 73,827 62,438                                                                                                                                                              - 40,984 73,827 22,831                                                                                                            - 18,
                                                                2019 Carry
                                                                 Forward




                                                          Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020                                                                                                                   Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 50 -
 PEAN UNION     TECBUF
                   Prog- Grant 2019 CarryOfficer
                                 AUSTRALIA
                               Management                  2020
                                                          BBNJ
                                                             6250        MS 2020  Funding
                                                                               TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                     5655     MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (142,153)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Funding                                                                                                TCAF1 Funds             2020165,733
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - XB (142,153) 40,108                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020  Carry40,093 167,091
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (15) 23,580                                                                                                                                                (143,5
                                 Forward            Reallocation                                                                     Balance c/f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Expenditure                                                                                                             Forward
                   code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Received                                                                                                                                       Available
 PEAN UNION     Communication & AUSTRALIA
                                Visibility activities     Support
                                                             6252to OPOC
                                                                       MS-DFATTCAF1
                                                                               Funding                                                                                                                                              XB                                            5656 (3,451)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS                                                                                            TCAF1                                                           -                XB                           1,627,798 25,896
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3,451)             (688,278) 22,445939,520                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -       - 22,
                                                                Budget




                               5,635,789                  (842,645)             4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                                           7,848,909                                                                                                12,642,053                                                                                                                                  3,137,540                                                                                                                       9,504,513
                                                                 Type




nce                 PI
                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                AUSTRALIA                 Ocean Analyst & Manager                                                                                                                                                                                                 5691   MS                                                                                               PER1     XB                                                                                                                                 (311,966)                                                                                                                           -      (311,966)                                                                                                         541,763
e UNION
PEAN                           6,151,757
                    PS & Meeting
                Workshops                                 (129,679)
                                                             6256       MS      6,022,078
                                                                               TCAF1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                          8,236,120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                                                                  14,258,198
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                                     - 4,615,734
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                62,150                                                                                                                   9,642,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            62,150                                                                                                            2,690        59,
p and                               565,584             (2,120,892)           (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                                           3,795,880                                                                                             PER1 2,240,572                                                                                                                                   266,271                                                                                                                       1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                        TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1
                                                                                                                           TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                     TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TCAF1
                                                                     Prog




                                 AUSTRALIA                Ocean Communications  Officer                                                                                                                                                                                           5692   MS                                                                                                        XB                                                                                                                                 (212,654)                                                                                                                           -      (212,654)                                                                                             373,054
                     ST
 PEAN UNION     Travel, perdiem & accommodation               6257                                    MS                                              TCAF1                                                                         XB                                                                                                     -                                                                                                              -                                                                                   -                                     201,987                                                                                                      201,987                                                                        173,626        28,
                     CS           (746,177)
                                   AUSTRALIA             (602,466)
                                                         Ocean             (1,348,643)
                                                               Management Officer                                                                                                                                                                                                 5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS                                                                                                 (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PER1     XB                                                                                                                                       67,022 (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (249,151)               -       (249,151)       435,236
                                                                     KRA




                                                                                                                                                        MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MS
                                                                                                                           MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                MS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MS



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS
                                                                                                     MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MS




 PEAN UNION     Consultants (design & Delivery training)    6258      MS    TCAF1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                                                                     -                                                                                                                                    -        118,085         118,085         49,645        68,
 Secretariat        MS            5,358,837
                                   AUSTRALIA Total       (819,077)            4,539,760                                                                                                                                                                                             8,658,852                                                                                                13,198,612                                                                                                                                 4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,829,225             8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,021,979)      1,807,246      5,916,838
Movement             FX           (250,109)
                                   AUSTRALIAN                      - MS TCAF1 (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                   (250,109)
                                                                Project




                                                                                                                                                        6249




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6277
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6269
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6257

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6258

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6260




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6273




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6276
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6271
                                                                                                                           6248




                                                                                                                                                                                                6250

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6252




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6263



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6266




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6275
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  6256




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6262


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6265
                                                                                                     6244




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6274
                                                                 code




PEAN UNION      Grants inclusive ofFEDERAL
                                    related components
                                             POLICE      VAW6260
                                                             Scoping Study           XB                                                                                                                                                                                           2256     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GE                                                                                              OPT1 - XB                                                                                                                                           - 6,392
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,760,661                                                                                                               1,760,661
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -          6,392                                                                                                  1,016                    1,759,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                      II              36,417                                           -                                                                                                       36,417                                                                                 (36,417)                                                                                                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                              -
 PEAN UNION     Workshops & Meetings
                                 AUSTRALIAN                   6262      MS      TCAF1   XB                                                                                                                                                                                           (14,647)                                                                                                                                                             -                                       (14,647)                                                                                                                     -                                                            (14,647)                                                                                         (1,595)                     (13,0
BUTIONS                          FEDERAL POLICE
                               16,752,098
                                                          Inter-Agency Border Training
                                                        (4,514,759)             12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2547      GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          OPT1                                          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12,376,489                                                                                                       28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,122        -                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Consultants (design & Delivery training)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Grants inclusive of related components
                                                                                                                                                        TECBUF - NSA Program Support Officer




PEAN UNION      TA Support                                    6263      MS      TCAF1   XB                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                         -                                                                                                      -       208,202                                                                                                     208,202                                                                                                                                        -        208,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1- Newsletters, brochures, pamplets




                                 AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                TECBUF - Grant Management Officer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Communication & Visibility activities




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Travel, perdiem & accommodation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C1- Travel relating to CV activities
                                                                                    Travel in relation policy dialgue in




 PEAN UNION                      FEDERAL POLICE
                Regional CSO Forum                            6265                                    MS                                              TCAF1                                                                         XB                                                            (176,076)                                                                                                                                               -                                      (176,076)                                                                                                5,179                                                                      (170,897)                                                                                                3,636                    (174,5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Facilitation & Technical Support

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           C1- CV Materials & Equipment




                                 Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7,514                                                                                                                 -         7,514                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Travel related to coordination
                                                                     Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         C1- White Board Animation
                                                                                                                           TECBUF - NSA Team Leader




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Workshops and meetings




 PEAN UNION     Travel related to coordination                6266        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                    (18,005)                                                                                                                                                             -                                       (18,005)             -                                                                                                                                                                (18,005)        (4,530)       (13,4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Workshops & Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Workshops & Meeting




                                   CHINA                  Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                                                                                                                    1034      PI                                                                                            KRA2                                                                             XB                             495,578                                                                                                                                                                     -         495,578              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C1- Video Production
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Regional CSO Forum




 PEAN UNION     Workshops and meetings                        6269        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                    (92,393)                                                                                                                                                             -                                       (92,393)        41,226                                                                                                                                                                (51,167)          (356)       (50,8
                                   CHINA                  Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                                                                                                             2105     MS                                                                                             TCAF1                                                                            XB                           1,102,656                                                                                                                                                                     -       1,102,656      1,274,804
 PEAN UNION     Travels                                       6270        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                    (14,785)                                                                                                                                                             -                                       (14,785)         1,036                                                                                                                                                                (13,749)              -       (13,7
                                                                                    relation-PRIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TA Support




                                                          Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PER1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Travels




 PEAN UNION     Facilitation & Technical Support               6271     MS    TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                                                                        (20,015)                                                                                                                                                             -                                       (20,015)                                                                                                 5,179                                                                             (14,836)                                                                                                           -       (14,8
                                   CHINA                  Beijing                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2108      PI                                                                                              1                                                                              XB                           (142,506)                                                                                                                                                                     -            (142,506)                                                                                                     643,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          etc..




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Financial Statements




 PEAN UNION     C1- CV Materials & Equipment                   6273     MS       TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                               575                                                                                                                          -                                                                   575                                                                         4,972                                                                                           5,547                                                                               3,400                          2,
                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION




                                                          Support PT&I Network including Review
                C1- Newsletters, brochures,
                                   CHINA pamplets         of Structure                                                                                                                                                                                                            2112     MS                                                                                             TCAF                                                                             XB                                                                             14,388                                                                                                                      -                                            14,388                                                                               -
                                                                     Donor




 PEAN UNION     etc..                                         6274      MS       TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                                         1,211                                                                                                                                                              -                                               1,211                                                                                           1,036                                                                                           2,247                                                                                                 -  2,
                                   CHINA                  Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                                                                                                                  2141     PI                                                                                             KRA2                                                                             XB                                                                                 22,973                                                                                                                  -                                            22,973                                                                       -
 PEAN UNION     C1- Video Production                           6275     MS       TCAF1      XB
                                                          Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-                                                                                                                                                                                        6,000                                                                                                                                                              -                                                6,000                                                                                          4,661                                                                                   10,661                                                                                                 -        10,
                                   CHINA                  C)-PRC                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2224     PD                                                                                             KRA2                                                                             XB                                                                                                   -                                                                                                     -                                                                         -                                         366,797
 PEAN UNION     C1- White Board Animation                      6276     MS       TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                                         5,200                                                                                                                                                              -                                                5,200                                                                                          4,661                                                                                           9,861                                                                                          -         9,
                                   CHINA                  China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                                                                                                             3681     PD                                                                                             KRA2                                                                             XB                                    (1,281)                                                                                                                                                              -                         (1,281)                                                                                     1,281
 PEAN UNION     C1- Travel relatingCHINA
                                   to CV activities
                                          Total                6277     MS       TCAF1      XB                                                                                                                                                                                         9,000                                                                                                                                                              -                                                9,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,491,808                                                                                                        -                                                      -                   9,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,491,808                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2,286,124  9,


cial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                                                                  - 40 -                                                                                                                      - 50 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 44 -                                                      31 December 2020                                                                                                                         31 December 2020


              102             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                         (304,211)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100,032
                                                                                  281,844




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (205,686)
                                                                                                                                 (5,559)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (87,305)
                                                                                                                                                                     (3,696)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (34,511)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134,616
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,502)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (9,499)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (54,093)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (20,629)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (173)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40,415
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,419
                                                                                                                101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                           Forward
                                                            Carry
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                 -



                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                  98,760




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       162




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (250)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                              Expenditure
                                                                 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100,032
                                                                                                                                 (5,559)



                                                                                                                                                                                                         (304,211)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (87,305)
                                                                                                                                                                     (3,696)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (34,511)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134,778




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (205,936)
                                                                                  380,604




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,471)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (9,499)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (54,093)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (173)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (20,629)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40,415
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,419



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)
                                                                                                                101
                                                           Total 2020

                                                           Available
                                                            Funds


                                                                                  320,166




                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                           Received
                                                           Funding
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                 (5,559)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (34,511)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100,032
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (304,211)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134,778




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (205,936)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (87,305)
                                                                                                                                                                     (3,696)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (9,499)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,471)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29,000
                                                                                  60,438




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (173)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (54,093)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (20,629)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)
                                                                                                                101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,419




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40,415
                                                           Balance c/f
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2020          2020                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total 2020             2020    20
 nformation                                     Project                                                                                                                                           Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                            2019 Carry                                                                                                                        2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2020
  Donor                          Donor
                         Project Name             code Project
  Income   and Expenditure        - Trust Fund (Sum     byKRA   NameProg
                                                             Donors)                                                                                                                               Type code      KRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Forward                                                                                                                        Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Reallocation         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   c/f       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Received            Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Received Forw
                           COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                                                                 -



                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                              Reallocation




mber 2020
 OPEAN UNION Admin Cost (7%)
                           SECRETARIAT
                                                  6279      MS      TCAF1
                                            Hub & Spoke Project - ComSec
                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1420
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          60,438
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI    TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            60,438
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              320,166
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            380,604
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           98,760
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       28
                                                                 2020




               Internal NSA WG Planning
                                  2019 Carry&               2020             2020 Funding                                                                                                                                                         2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020 Carry
Donor                          COMMONWEALTH                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2020 Expenditure
 OPEAN UNION   Coordination        Forward                    7111
                                                        Reallocation     GE Balance
                                                                                 OPT1 c/f XB                                                                                                                                                        Received101                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Available              101                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Forward 101                                                                                                               -
                               SECRETARIAT
                               Total 2,829,225              (1,021,979)               1,807,246                                                                                                                                                          5,916,838            7,724,084                 2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -       4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,240)                                                                                                         16,070
 L POLICE                                    7,514                    - ST       OPT1 7,514                                                                                                                                                               (5,559) -              - 7,514 (5,559)                  - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (5,559)7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                         (304,211)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100,032
                                                                                                                                 (5,559)

                                                                                                                                                                     (3,696)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (9,499)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (205,936)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (87,305)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,471)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (34,511)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           29,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134,778
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                  60,438




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (54,093)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (20,629)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (15)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (173)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40,415
                                                                                                                101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,419




 OPEAN UNION   Thematic Mapping of Regional     NSAs          7112                             XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -         (5
                                                              2019 Carry




                               CONSERVATION            Conservation Interntional Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                       for Pac
                                                               Forward




                                        1,491,808                     -                                                                                                                                                                                  2,286,124            3,777,932                 1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,824,851
CRETARIAT                      INTERNATIONAL
                                           (4,240)     Ocean Comm. -                     (4,240)                                                                                                                                                  5652        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16,070  TCAF1         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,830         (96,622)    11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -         (96,622) -                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 51 -
 OPEAN UNION
 RNATIONAL     PIFS NSA Engagement     & Cordination
                               CONSERVATION
                                         (96,622)             7113    - ST       OPT1 (96,622) XB                                                                                                                                                         (3,696) -              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (96,622)     (3,696)               - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (3,696)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (96,622)                                                                                                          -          (3
                               INTERNATIONAL
                                           (1,247)                    -                  (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                  -              (1,247)                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,247)
 OPEAN UNION   Professional Staff                             7121       ST      OPT1          XB                                                                                                                                                      (304,211)                 -       (304,211)                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (304,211)                                                                                                                -        (304
                               Total             -                    -                         -                                                                                                                                                          183,542              183,542         (96,622)          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -         (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  183,542                                                                                                               -
                                                              Budget
                                                               Type




 OPEAN UNION   Staff operations costs 4,519,157             (1,190,338)               3,328,819
                                                       SOI Regional Capacity Development XB
                                                              7122       ST      OPT1                                                                                                                                                                    7,712,102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (5,471)            11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -          (5,471)     2,455,734 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (5,471)                                                                                                       31                 (5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                     XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                          314,040                     -                 314,040                                                                                                                                                            250,000              564,040                     200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               363,632
 OPEAN UNION                   CSIRO
               PSC/Oversight Meetings                  Workshop
                                                              7123                                                                                                                                                                                5653 (34,511)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MS     TCAF1        -XB 21 (34,511)  (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              - (34,511)  (1,247)                                                                                                              - (34
                                                21                    - ST       OPT1          XB
                                                                                              21                                                                                                                                                                  -                                               - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21                                                                                                         -
                                                                                  TCAF1




 D                                        161,220                     -                 161,220                                                                                                                                                                   -             161,220           (1,247) 122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38,925
                                                                   Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                     OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT1
                                                                                                                                 OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPT1
                                                                                                                OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1
               Capacity BuldingCSIRO  Total
                                 Training & Resource                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -           (1,247)                                                                                                     -
 NOMICS
 OPEAN   CONSULTING
       UNION   Materials                   16,270             7211    - GE       OPT1 16,270   XB                                                                                                                                                       (54,093) -               -16,270 (54,093)                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (54,093)16,270                                                                                                  -     (54
ERATION OF RED CROSS           DT Global 9,829         DFAT E-commerce- AFT Fund           9,829                                                                                                                                                  1458        PI - KRA2           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9,829                  -       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -             9,829-                                                                                              183,542
 OPEAN UNION   Mentoring Support                              7212       ST      OPT1          XB                                                                                                                                                         (9,499)                -          (9,499)          31,767 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (9,499)                                                                                                       -      (9
                                                                   KRA




                               DT Global256,256             (2,117,372)             (1,861,116)                                                                                                                                                          2,261,396              400,280                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           368,513
                                                                                  MS




                                           Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE
                                                                                                                GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GE
                                                                                                                                                                     ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                 ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                         ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST




 RIBUTION                                 117,630             (117,692)                     (62)                                                                                                                                                                  -                 (62)                       (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
 OPEAN UNION   Support Cross Regional 2,535,011
                                        Exchanges             7213    - GE       OPT12,535,011 XB                                                                                                                                                        3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29,000              5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -          29,000      2,059,312 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3,668,231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             29,000                                                                                                                -          2
                                                              Project




                                           19,467                     -
                                                       Public Finance Management    & 19,467                                                                                                                                                               403,816              423,283                     321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               101,942
                                                                                                                                                                     7113




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7232
                                                                                                                                 7112




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7123




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7213




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7231



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7233

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7234

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7212




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7221
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7223
                                                                                  6279




                                                                                                                                                                                                         7121
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7122



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7211




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7243
                                                                                                                7111




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7214

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7215
                                                               code




                               EUROPEAN   517,349
                                             UNION     Governance -                     517,349                                                                                                                                                   1002      88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI    KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB             732,869 9,331                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -          596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  732,869                                                                                                               -
               Regional Policy Engagement Process-                    -                         -                                                                                                                                                           75,320                75,320                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75,320
 OPEAN UNION   Training                      3,968            7214    - ST       OPT1 3,968    XB                                                                                                                                                       (20,629) -               - 3,968 (20,629)                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (20,629)3,968                                                                                                           -         (20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Capacity Bulding Training & Resource




                                          188,825                     -                 188,825                                                                                                                                                            126,518              315,343                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               315,343
                                                                                                                                                                     PIFS NSA Engagement & Cordination




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Regional Policy Engagement Process
                                                                                                                                 Thematic Mapping of Regional NSAs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Support Thematic Policy Awareness




               Support Thematic   Policy Awareness
                               EUROPEAN      UNION     4: Bank Charges
                                                                  (285) & Exch rate differences                                                                                                                                                  1002H        PI - OPT2           XB                  (38)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -               (38)                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Support Cross Regional Exchanges




                                             5,442                                         5,157                                                                                                                                                                                   5,157                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Support for NSA Capacity Building
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NSA/PIFS Development Partners
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Equipment, Software & Services




 OPEAN UNION   Workshops                                      7215 (7) ST        OPT13,678,136 XB                                                                                                                                                         11,419                 -          11,419      1,728,861 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          11,419                                                                                                                -          1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PIFS Programmes Consultations




                                        3,678,143                                                                                                                                                                                                        4,399,159            8,077,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NSA Engagement with Leaders
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  National Level Policy Dialogue
                                                                                                    Internal NSA WG Planning &
                                                                   Project Name




UND                            EUROPEAN UNION2,464     PFM Programme     - Administrator 2,464                                                                                                                                                    1003        PI - PER1            2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB              (3,277)         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -             2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (3,277)                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Collaboration with UNDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PSC/Oversight Meetings




 OPEAN UNION                               28,830
               Equipment, Software & Services                  7221      - GE      OPT1 28,830 XB                                                                                                                                                        134,778 -               -28,830 134,778                  - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       134,77828,830                                                                                            162                     13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Staff operations costs




                                             8,988                       -                 8,988                                                                                                                                                                  -                8,988                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,988
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mentoring Support




 OPEAN UNION   Collaboration with UNDP 12,457                  7223        ST      KRA1        XB                                                                                                                                                                --              -12,457            -             - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Regional NSA Fora




                                                                         -                12,457                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Professional Staff
                                                                                  Admin Cost (7%)




MERICA                         EUROPEAN      UNION
                                          336,123      PFM Research     Officer
                                                                  (3,377)                332,746                                                                                                                                                  1008        PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14,615   PER1         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                347,361                   - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -          348,568-                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                    Coordination




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Workshops




 OUTH UNION
 OPEAN PACIFIC PIFS Programmes Consultations   977             7231      - GE      OPT1      977
                                                                                               XB                                                                                                                                                            (15) -              - 977         (15)               - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (15) 977                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Materials




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Meetings
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Training




 T SERVICES                                52,862                (27,292)                 25,570                                                                                                                                                         1,069,465            1,095,035                      22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,072,795
ENT & DEVELOPMENT                            1,002     PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                         -                 1,002                                                                                                                                                                  -                1,002                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,002
 OPEAN UNION                   EUROPEAN
               National Level Policy DialogueUNION     Coordinator-1.1.1
                                                               7232        ST      OPT1        XB                                                                                                                                                 3475 100,032PI     PER1        -XB             144,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100,032                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 100,032  144,858                                                                                                          -    - 10
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Financial Statements




 OPEAN UNION  Regional NSA Fora       (84,864)         Private7233       - Change-Finance
                                                                Sector Cl. GE      OPT1 (84,864)
                                                                                               XB                                                                                                                                                          586,943
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (205,936)                502,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -       (205,936)          540,382 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (38,303)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (205,936)                                                                        (250)                          (205
                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION




 NISATION                    EUROPEAN37,885
                                         UNION         Officer-1.1.2 -                    37,885                                                                                                                                                  3476        PI - PER1           37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB             214,637          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                            37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   214,637                                                                                              -
 ROM PROPERTY, PLANT &                        -                          -                      -                                                                                                                                                          264,945              264,945                     264,945                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                   Donor




 OPEAN UNION  NSA Engagement EUROPEAN    UNION
                               with Leaders            Finance7234
                                                                 Officer - 1.1.3
                                                                           ST      OPT1        XB                                                                                                                                                 3477 (87,305)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI     PER1        -XB      (87,305) 49,929           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                            49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (87,305)                                                                                              -    - (87
                                        36,417                   (36,417)                       -                                                                                                                                                                 -                    -                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                             EUROPEAN UNION            Travel & Subsistence - 1.2                                                                                                                                                                 3480        PI    OPT2          XB              (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -                            (4,763)                                                                                             -
  GN EXCHANGE                        (250,109)                           -             (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                  -           (250,109)                  (197,937)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (52,172)
 OPEAN UNION  Support for NSA Capacity Building                7242        GE      OPT1        XB                                                                                                                                                           (173)                -            (173)                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (173)                                                                                              -
 ONS FROM DONORS                   16,752,098
                             EUROPEAN    UNION         Office(4,514,759)
                                                              Costs - 1.3             12,237,339                                                                                                                                                  3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI    KRA2 41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB                   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -                       28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   131,617                                                                                              -
              NSA/PIFS Development Partners
 OPEAN UNION  Meetings                                 Est RPI7243
                                                               Coordn in CC-DR_PRP
                                                                         ST        FRDP-ActXB
                                                                                OPT1                                                                                                                                                                                                                 40,415                                                                                                    -                                        40,415                                                                                                                           -                                           40,415                                                                                        -          4
                             EUROPEAN UNION            1.1                                                                                                                                                                                             3482                                             PI                                             KRA2                                                     XB                                          168,270                                                                                                                                    -                                 168,270                                                                                        -


 ncial Statements             Financial Statements                                                                   - 41 -                                                                                                                                        - 51 -                                                                                                                                                                              - 45 -                                                          31 December 2020                                                                                                                                       31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             103
-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (247,089)
                                                                                                                               978,095




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (162,784)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (205,095)
                                                                                             (146,199)




                                                                                                                                                                                                (215,949)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 112,232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             355
                                                                                                              1,038,549




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,801




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          89,243




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,022
                                                                                                                                                                21,755


                                                                                                                                                                                                                 76,560




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (737)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  27,876




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,177
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73,065




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,832)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     56,099
                                                         Forward
                                                          Carry
                                                           2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       221,472




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                               -



                                                                                                                                                                                                (1,924)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2,261)
                                                                                                              (36,583)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  126,571




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                15,370
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          478


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 50,222




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    15
                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,642
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     9,986




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (801)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  43,346

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                            Expenditure
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                               978,095




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (247,089)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (162,769)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       16,377
                                                                                                                                                                                                (217,873)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  134,372




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1,906)
                                                                                             (146,199)
                                                                                                              1,001,966




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          89,721


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 162,454




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,028
                                                                                                                                                                21,755




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     66,085


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,633




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75,759




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   73,065




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13,819
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71,222




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,832)
                                                         Total 2020

                                                         Available
                                                          Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  114,388




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 137,587




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2,072

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,036
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       208,166




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50,454


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                10,091
                                                                                                                               -

                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46,670




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  62,863

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36,206
                                                         Received
                                                         Funding
                                                           2020




                                                                                                                               978,095




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (247,089)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,832)
                                                                                                                                                                                                (217,873)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (191,789)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2,942)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (162,769)
                                                                                             (146,199)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43,051
                                                                                                              1,001,966




                                                                                                                                                                21,755




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19,984




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15,631
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75,759




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24,867




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (44)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13,819
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,359

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36,859
                                                         Balance c/f
                                                          Funding
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                        Project                                                                                                Budget                                            Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2019 Carry
Donor                                 Donor
                            Project Name                 code                   Project
                                                                                KRA NameProg                                                                    Type                                              code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                            Reallocation




                            AUSTRALIA                Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                                                            5541                                                                PD                    OPT1                                                  XB                                                                                    911                                                                                                                  -                                                     911                                       -
           Assessment & Institutional
                                                               2020




omeUNION
PEAN  and Expenditure
           Strengthening - Trust Fund
                            AUSTRALIA             (Sum   byofProgrammes)
                                                        7311
                                                    Review
                                                                 ST     OPT1
                                                             Governance & Financing
                                                                                    XB                                                                                                                                     (146,199)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5542      ST                                                                              OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (146,199)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (25,140)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -                                       (146,199)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -        (25,140)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                                        (146,1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
 2020
PEAN UNION Grants                                       7314 Pacific
                                                     Enhancing      STOceanOPT1
                                                                            GovernanceXB-                                                                                                                                  1,001,966                                                                                                                  -                                  1,001,966                                                                                                                                       -                                       1,001,966         (36,583)                                                                        1,038,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (247,089)
                                                                                                                               978,095




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,832)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (162,769)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (2,942)
                                                                                                                                                                21,755
                                                                                                                                                                                                (217,873)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (191,789)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19,984
                                                                                             (146,199)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     15,631
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 75,759




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          43,051


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24,867
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4,542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (44)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               --
                                                                                                              1,001,966




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       13,819
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,359

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   36,859




                               AUSTRALIA             DFAT                                                                                                                                                               5654     ST                                                                                ASF1                                                 XB                                                                        73,827                                                                                                                            -                                      73,827                                                   -
                                                            2019 Carry
                                                             Forward




PEAN UNION     M&E System for Grant Facility            7315for PIF ST     OPT1       XBat                                                                                                                                 978,095                                                                                                                    -                                          978,095                                                                                                                                 -                                                   978,095                                                                        -        978,
                                                     Support        Members  attendance                                                                                                                                                       2020                                                                                  Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 52 -
                                2019  Carry
                                   AUSTRALIA         2020
                                                    BBNJ             2020 Funding                                                                                                                                       5655      MS TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB              2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40,108      2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (15) Carry40,093
                   Prog                                                                                                                                                                                                  Funding
PEAN UNION                        Forward
               Visibility and Communications     Reallocation
                                                       7411       ST Balance
                                                                         OPT1 c/f XB                                                                                                                                         21,755          -           Expenditure - Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21,755                     21,755               -         21,
                    code                                                                                                                                                                                                 Received        Available
                                   AUSTRALIA        Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding                                                                                                                                       5656      MS TCAF1     XB        1,627,798   (688,278)         939,520               -
                                                            Budget




PEAN UNION     Indirect Costs                          7511       ST     OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                      (217,873)         -     (217,873)           -      (217,873)         (1,924)      (215,9
                                  5,635,789         (842,645)             4,793,144                                                                                                                                       7,848,909      12,642,053         3,137,540      9,504,513
                                                             Type




nce                   PI
                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB
                                                                                             XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                   AUSTRALIA        Ocean Analyst & Manager                                                                                                                                             5691      MS  PER1     XB         (311,966)          -       (311,966)        541,763
PEAN
e UNION        AuditsPS           6,151,757
                        & Evaluation                (129,679)
                                                       7512       GE      6,022,078
                                                                         OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                      8,236,120
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             75,759      14,258,198
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -        75,759 4,615,734 -    9,642,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75,759           (801)         76,

p andUNION                      565,584            (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                        3,795,880                                                                                                   2,240,572          266,271                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,974,301
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1


PEAN           EVAW - Gender Specialist                 7701    GE       KRA1     XB                                                                                                                                       (191,789)                                                                                                     - XB (191,789)        208,166                                                                                                                                                                                                          - 16,377
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (212,654) 221,472373,054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (205,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                 Prog




                                                                                                                                                                OPT1
                                                                                                                               OPT1



                                                                                                                                                                                                OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPT1
                                                                                                              OPT1
                                                                                             OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRA1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KRA1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KRA1




                               AUSTRALIA             Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                        5692     MS                                                                               PER1                              (212,654)
                    ST
PEAN UNION     EVAW - Team Leader (50%)                     7702       GE      KRA1      XB                                                                                                                                   19,984                                                                                      -     19,984         114,388                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      134,372                                                      126,571        7,
                     CS Officer(746,177)
                                   AUSTRALIA            (602,466)
                                                        Ocean                (1,348,643)
                                                               Management Officer                                                                                                                                        5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   MS                                        (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -      (249,151)                     (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PER1     XB             67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  435,236
                                                                 KRA




               Prj support          (M&E, reporting,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GE


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GE
                                                                                                                               ST

                                                                                                                                                                ST
                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                             ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                ST




 Secretariat
PEAN UNION           MS
               coms)-@50%         5,358,837
                                   AUSTRALIA Total      (819,077)
                                                            7703       GE       4,539,760
                                                                              KRA1       XB                                                                                                                                8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8,359       13,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -       8,359 4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,829,225 62,863     8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (1,021,979) 71,222
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,807,246                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         43,346
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,916,838 27,
               Contrib to TECCBUF    Project Accountant
Movement             FX            (250,109)
                                   AUSTRALIAN                       - GE        (250,109)                                                                                                                                             -      (250,109)                  -       (250,109)
                                                            Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7721A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6228B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6226B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6227B
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                6226C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6227C


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6228C
                                                                                                                               7315

                                                                                                                                                                7411




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7701
                                                                                                              7314




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7512


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7702




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7706


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7710
                                                                                             7311




                                                                                                                                                                                                7511




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7705


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7707
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7703

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   7704
                                                             code




PEAN UNION     Services            FEDERAL POLICE       VAW7704
                                                              Scoping Study   KRA1       XB                                                                                                                              2256 36,859
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GE   OPT1   - XB  36,859   6,392 36,206       - 73,065   6,392                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -       - 73,
                       II and ME ( 36,417
               Trvl:Design                                          -                36,417                                                                                                                                  (36,417)                -                  -                  -
PEAN UNION                         AUSTRALIAN
               Accountability/Monitoring)                   7705       GE      KRA1      XB                                                                                                                                                                15,631                                                                                     -                                               15,631                                                                                          50,454                                                                                        66,085                                                 9,986                        56,
BUTIONS                            FEDERAL POLICE       Inter-Agency Border Training                                                                                                                                     2547                                   GE                                                 OPT1                                                  XB                                                                                   1,122                                                                                                                 -                                            1,122                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Workshops/conference/seminars_PACP




                                16,752,098            (4,514,759)             12,237,339                                                                                                                                      28,847,737                                                                                            41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             43,05112,376,489
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          46,670 28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Contrib to TECCBUF Project Accountant




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Workshops/conference/seminars_PRIP




PEAN UNION     Direct office costs AUSTRALIAN               7706       GE      KRA1      XB                                                                                                                                      43,051                                                                                                -                             89,721                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 478                         89,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Prj support Officer (M&E, reporting,




                                   FEDERAL POLICE
PEAN UNION     Visibility                                   7707       GE      KRA1      XB                                                                                                                                                                       4,542                                                                               -                                                       4,542                                                                                   10,091                                                                                        14,633                                                15,370                       (7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Participant & staff travel-PACP




                                   Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      7,514                                                                                                                 -                                            7,514                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                Visibility and Communications
                                                                                                                               M&E System for Grant Facility




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Participant & staff travel-PRIP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Local Cnsltcy: Dsgn GE/EVAW
                                                                 Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EVAW - Team Leader (50%)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Accountability/Monitoring)




PEAN UNION     Indirect Cost - 7%                           7710       GE      KRA1      XB                                                                                                                                                                24,867                                                                                     -                                               24,867                                                                                         137,587                                                                                162,454                                                       50,222                     112,
                                                                                 Assessment & Institutional




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EVAW - Gender Specialist




                              CHINA               Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                                                                   1034                                  PI                                                  KRA2                                                  XB                                 495,578                                                                                                                                                                  -                     495,578                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Trvl:Design and ME (
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Audits & Evaluation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Acctbty/Mntrg Tlkt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TA Support to PRIP
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TA support to PRIP




PEAN UNION     Workshops/conference/seminars_PACP    6226B        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                                                (1,832)                                                                                      -                                              (1,832)                                                                                                                                                                                        (1,832)                                                           -        (1,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Direct office costs


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Indirect Cost - 7%




                              CHINA               Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                                                            2105                                 MS                                                   TCAF1                                                 XB                               1,102,656                                                                                                                                                                  -                   1,102,656                                                   1,274,804
                                                                                 Strengthening




                                                                                                                                                                                                Indirect Costs




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             coms)-@50%




PEAN UNION     Workshops/conference/seminars_PRIP        6226C     MS    TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                                                                   (44)                                                                       -                                                               (44)                                                                             2,072                                                                                           2,028                                                             6               2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Visibility
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Services




                                                     Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PER1.
                                                                                                              Grants




                                  CHINA              Beijing                                                                                                                                                             2108      PI                                                                                1                                                  XB                        (142,506)                                                                                                                                                                         -      (142,506)                                                                         643,242
PEAN UNION     Participant & staff travel-PACP           6227B     MS    TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                   (247,089)                                                                                                                  -                                    (247,089)                                                                                                                                     -                                          (247,089)                                                                               -      (247,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Financial Statements
                                                                                             EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EUROPEAN UNION




                                                     Support PT&I Network including Review
PEAN UNION     Participant & staff travel-PRIP           6227C     MS     TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                    (2,942)                                                                                                                  -                                              (2,942)                                                                                           1,036                                                                                        (1,906)                                              (2,261)
                                  CHINA              of Structure                                                                                                                                                        2112     MS                                                                               TCAF                                                 XB                                                                       14,388                                                                                                                             -                                      14,388                                                   -
                                                                 Donor




PEAN UNION     TA support to PRIP                        6228B     MS     TCAF1        XB                                                                                                                                         --                                                                                                                  -                                                                       -                                                                       93,225                                                                                        93,225                                                                    93,
                                  CHINA              Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                                                             2141       PI                                                                              KRA2                                                  XB                                                                       22,973                                                                                                                           -         22,973                                                                         -
PEAN UNION     TA Support to PRIP                    Pacific Humanitarian
                                                         6228C     MS Pathway-XB
                                                                          TCAF1      (PHP-
                                                                                       XB                                                                                                                                 (162,769)                                                                                                                   -                                    (162,769)                                                                                                                                     -                                         (162,769)                                                                       15      (162,7
                                  CHINA              C)-PRC                                                                                                                                                             2224      PD                                                                               KRA2                                                 XB                                                                                                          -                                                                                              -              -                                                                  366,797

               Local Cnsltcy: Dsgn GE/EVAW
PEAN UNION     Acctbty/Mntrg TlktCHINA               China Scholarship
                                                        7721A       GE Publicity
                                                                            KRA1                                                                                   XB                                                    3681 13,819
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PD                                                                              KRA2                               -                  XB                           13,819 (1,281)                                                                                                                     -                                          - 13,819 (1,281)                                                       7,642 1,281 6,
                                 CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,491,808                                                                                                                                                   -                                    1,491,808                                  2,286,124

cial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                            - 40 -                                                                                                  - 52 -                                                                                                                                                                                        - 44 -                                                31 December 2020                                                                                                                              31 December 2020


             104              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               27,188

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12,954
                                                                                                                                                                                                      13,606



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,034,309
                                                                                                                                                                  19,990




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                59,146
                                                                                                                               44,573




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         15,282

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30,272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              20,893



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,272
                                                                                               4,508




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12,614
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30,272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  8,585,187
                                                            Forward
                                                             Carry
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6,295
                                                                                                                                                                  3,400



                                                                                                                                                                                                      193,256




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                               18,495




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,040

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              29,561
                                                                                               1,952




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2,455,734
                                                               Expenditure
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               27,188

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19,249
                                                                                                                                                                  23,390




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,034,309

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                59,146
                                                                                                                                                                                                      206,862




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30,272
                                                                                                                               63,068




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         20,322




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50,454



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30,272
                                                                                               6,460




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12,614
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30,272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  11,040,921
                                                            Total 2020

                                                            Available
                                                             Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                30,272

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               15,136

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                      206,862
                                                                                                                                                                  30,272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,034,309
                                                                                                                               63,068




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         30,272

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30,272

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12,614

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50,454



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30,272
                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30,272




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,712,102
                                                            Received
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12,052

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19,249
                                                                                                                                                                  (6,882)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                28,874
                                                                                               6,460




                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (9,950)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,328,819
                                                            Balance c/f
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2020          2020                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total 2020             2020    20
 nformation                               Project                                                                                                  Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                             2019 Carry                                                                                            2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2020
  Donor                    Donor
                   Project Name             code Project
 Income  and Expenditure    - Trust Fund (Sum     byKRA   NameProg
                                                       Donors)                                                                                      Type code      KRA
                                                                                                                                                              Forward                                                                                            Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Reallocation         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        c/f       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Received            Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Received Forw
                     COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                  -



                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,190,338)
                                                               Reallocation




mber 2020            SECRETARIAT      Hub & Spoke Project - ComSec                                                                                                                       1420       PI     TCAF1         XB              (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -         (4,240)                            16,070
               Focus Wkshp - Testg GE/EVAW
                                                                  2020




                                   2019 Carry
                                COMMONWEALTH                2020             2020 Funding                                                                                                2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2020 Carry
Donor
 OPEAN UNION   Acctbty/Mntrg Tlkt                            7721B       GE      KRA1          XB                                                                                                 6,460                 -            2020 Expenditure -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     6,460                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6,460                              1,952
                                    Forward             Reallocation           Balance c/f                                                                                                 Received             Available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Forward
                                SECRETARIAT
                                Total   2,829,225           (1,021,979)               1,807,246                                                                                                5,916,838             7,724,084                 2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -      4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (4,240)                                               16,070
 L POLICE      Reg Cpcity Bldg Csltcy:NSA-led7,514                    -                    7,514                                                                                                         -                7,514                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              19,249
                                                                                                                                                                  (6,882)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                28,874

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12,052
                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                               6,460



                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (9,950)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4,519,157
                                                               2019 Carry




               GE/EVAW MntrgCONSERVATION              Conservation
                                                             7722A Interntional  Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                       for Pac XB
                                                                Forward




 OPEAN UNION                            1,491,808                     - GE       KRA1                                                                                                          2,286,124
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -             3,777,932
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                  -   1,953,081
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      63,068                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,824,851
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       63,068                             18,495                           4
 CRETARIAT                      INTERNATIONAL
                                           (4,240)    Ocean   Comm.   -                  (4,240)                                                                                         5652       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,070   TCAF1         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         11,830         (96,622)   11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -        (96,622)-                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 53 -
 RNATIONAL                      CONSERVATION
                                         (96,622)                     -                 (96,622)                                                                                                         -            (96,622)                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (96,622)
               Tech Fcs Grp Wkshp-Cap     Bldg:NSA-led
                                INTERNATIONAL
                                           (1,247)                    -                  (1,247)                                                                                                         -              (1,247)                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,247)
 OPEAN UNION   GE/EVAW MntrgTotal                -           7722B - GE          KRA1          XB
                                                                                                -                                                                                               (6,882)
                                                                                                                                                                                                 183,542                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       183,542     (6,882)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (96,622)       30,272
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -    23,390
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           183,542                         3,400                       -   1
                                                               Budget
                                                                Type




                                        4,519,157           (1,190,338)               3,328,819                                                                                                7,712,102            11,040,921                 2,455,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                               XB



                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                      SOI Regional Capacity Development
                                          314,040                     -                 314,040                                                                                                  250,000               564,040                    200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  363,632
               Reg Capacity Bldg  Wkshp-NSA-led
                                CSIRO                 Workshop                                                                                                                           5653      MS      TCAF1         XB              (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -         (1,247)                                                    -
                                                21                    -                       21                                                                                                         -                   21                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       21
 OPEAN UNION   GE/EVAW Mntrg                                 7722C       GE      KRA1          XB                                                                                                      -                -                  -         206,862                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          206,862                            193,256                           1
 D                                        161,220                     -                 161,220                                                                                                          -             161,220           (1,247) 122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    38,925
                                                                    Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA1
                                                                                               KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA1
                                                                                                                               KRA1



                                                                                                                                                                  KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRA1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KRA1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KRA1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KRA1




                                CSIRO Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -         (1,247)                                                    -
 NOMICS CONSULTING                         16,270                     -                   16,270                                                                                                         -               16,270                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,270
 ERATION OF REDGrants
                 CROSS          DT Global
                      Facility:Supp          NSA-led DFAT E-commerce
                                     toward 9,829                     - AFT Fund           9,829                                                                                         1458       PI - KRA2            XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          9,829                 -        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -           9,829-                                     183,542
                                                                    KRA




 OPEAN UNION   GE/EVAW MntrgDT Global256,256
                                           Total            (2,117,372)
                                                             7722D       GE         (1,861,116)
                                                                                 KRA1          XB                                                                                              2,261,396
                                                                                                                                                                                                       -               400,280
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                  -       31,767
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,034,309                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,034,309                                             -     1,03
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        183,542
                                                                                                                               GE



                                                                                                                                                                  GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE
                                                                                               GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GE




  RIBUTION                                117,630             (117,692)                     (62)                                                                                                         -                 (62)                       (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                        2,535,011                     -               2,535,011                                                                                                3,192,532             5,727,543                 2,059,312                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3,668,231
 OPEAN UNION   National Gender Peer Reviews            Public7731A    - GE       KRA1          XB                                                                                               28,874                  -          28,874             30,272                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           59,146                                                     -        5
                                                               Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7722D




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7731D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                7731A
                                                                                                                               7722A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7733A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7732A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7731B
                                                                                               7721B




                                                                                                                                                                  7722B




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7731C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7732C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7733B
                                                                                                                                                                                                      7722C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7733C




                                           19,467             Finance Management    & 19,467                                                                                                     403,816               423,283                    321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  101,942
                                                                code




                                EUROPEAN  517,349
                                            UNION      Governance -                     517,349                                                                                          1002     88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI     KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB             732,869 9,331                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -        596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           732,869                                                     -
 OPEAN UNION   Election Monitoring Missions -                7731B - GE          KRA1           -
                                                                                               XB                                                                                                 75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                12,052                  -75,320 12,052                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      15,136                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       27,188                                                     -        2
                                             3,968                    -                    3,968                                                                                                         -                3,968                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    3,968
                                                                                                                                                  Tech Fcs Grp Wkshp-Cap Bldg:NSA-led




                                          188,825                     -                 188,825                                                                                                  126,518               315,343                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Grants Facility:Supp toward NSA-led




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Bldg a Cadre of GE/EVAW Advocats

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Strtg Plng Mtg- GE/EVAW Advocats




 OPEAN UNION   SGBV ReferenceEUROPEAN
                                 Group Meeting
                                            UNION
                                             5,442           7731C
                                                       4: Bank    (285) &GE
                                                               Charges           KRA1
                                                                          Exch rate differencesXB
                                                                                           5,157                                                                                        1002H 19,249PI - OPT2           -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5,157 19,249 (38)              - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -    19,2495,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (38)                       6,295                       -   1
                                                                                                                                                                                        Reg Capacity Bldg Wkshp-NSA-led




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SGBV Reference Group Meeting-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SGBV Reference Group Meeting




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             EVAW Experts Engagement CSO
                                                                                   Focus Wkshp - Testg GE/EVAW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Engmt:HL Meetings: GE/EVAW




                                     3,678,143                         (7)             3,678,136                                                                                               4,399,159             8,077,295                 1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                National Gender Peer Reviews
                                                                                                                 Reg Cpcity Bldg Csltcy:NSA-led




               SGBV Reference Group Meeting-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Election Monitoring Missions
                                                                    Project Name




 UND
 OPEAN UNION                             2,464
               Country Visit EUROPEAN UNION                    7731D - Administrator
                                                        PFM Programme      GE      KRA1 2,464 XB                                                                                         1003       PI - - PER1           2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -XB                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (3,277)         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30,272                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -    30,272 2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3,277)                                               -    -   3
                                        28,830                           -                28,830                                                                                                         -               28,830                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Advocats amngst Pac




                                         8,988                           -                 8,988                                                                                                         -                8,988                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,988
                                                                                   Acctbty/Mntrg Tlkt




               EVAW Experts Engagement12,457
                                         CSO                             -                12,457                                                                                                         -               12,457                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12,457
                                                                                                                 GE/EVAW Mntrg



                                                                                                                                                  GE/EVAW Mntrg



                                                                                                                                                                                        GE/EVAW Mntrg



                                                                                                                                                                                                                          GE/EVAW Mntrg




 OPEAN UNION
 MERICA        Dialogues       EUROPEAN  UNION
                                       336,123                 7732A
                                                        PFM Research       GE
                                                                        Officer
                                                                  (3,377)          KRA1 332,746
                                                                                              XB                                                                                         1008 (9,950)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                  14,615    PER1        -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       347,361     (9,950)            30,272
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -    20,322
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           348,568-                        5,040                       -   1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Country Visit




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            amngst Pac

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               amngst Pac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Side Events




  OUTH PACIFIC                             977                           -                   977                                                                                                         -                  977                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Dialogues




 OPEAN UNION   Side Events                                     7732C       GE      KRA1       XB                                                                                                       -                -                  -          30,272                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           30,272                                                     -        3
 T SERVICES                             52,862                   (27,292)                 25,570                                                                                               1,069,465             1,095,035                     22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,072,795
 ENT & DEVELOPMENT                       1,002
               Bldg a Cadre of GE/EVAW Advocats         PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                         -                 1,002                                                                                                         -                1,002                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,002
                               EUROPEAN UNION           Coordinator-1.1.1                                                                                                                3475       PI -    PER1        -XB             144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -        144,858                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Financial Statements




 OPEAN UNION   amngst Pac                                      7733A       GE      KRA1       XB                                                                                                                                           -          12,614                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           12,614              -                                               1
                                     (84,864)                            - Change-Finance
                                                        Private Sector Cl.              (84,864)                                                                                                 586,943               502,079                    540,382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (38,303)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION




              Strtg Plng Mtg- GE/EVAW Advocats
                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                      EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           EUROPEAN UNION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              EUROPEAN UNION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EUROPEAN UNION




NISATION                      EUROPEAN 37,885
                                        UNION           Officer-1.1.2    -                37,885                                                                                         3476       PI - - PER1          37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB             214,637          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -         37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           214,637                                                     -
OPEAN
ROM   UNION
     PROPERTY,amngst
               PLANTPac &                   -                  7733B - GE          KRA1       XB
                                                                                               -                                                                                                 264,945                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       264,945             -          50,454
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  264,945                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              50,454     -   29,561                                               2
                                                                    Donor




                              EUROPEAN UNION            Finance Officer - 1.1.3                                                                                                          3477       PI      PER1         XB               49,929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -         49,929                                                     -
              Engmt:HL Meetings:       36,417
                                  GE/EVAW                        (36,417)                      -                                                                                                         -                    -                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                              EUROPEAN  UNION           Travel & Subsistence - 1.2                                                                                                       3480       PI     OPT2          XB              (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -         (4,763)                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Total




 GN EXCHANGE
OPEAN UNION   Advocats amngst Pac (250,109)                    7733C - GE          KRA1(250,109)
                                                                                              XB                                                                                                       --            (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                  -   (197,937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30,272                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (52,172)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30,272              -                                                3
ONS FROM DONORS                    16,752,098
                              EUROPEAN  UNION           Office(4,514,759)
                                                               Costs - 1.3           12,237,339                                                                                               28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                         34814,519,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PI     KRA2     41,085,074
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB                   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -11,040,921
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           131,617 2,455,734                                           - 8,58
OPEAN UNION                                                                                                                                                                                                 (1,190,338)         3,328,819          7,712,102
 l                                                      Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
                                  EUROPEAN UNION        1.1                                                                                                                             3482                                         PI                             KRA2                                                      XB                                                             168,270                                                                                                              -                            168,270                                 -


 ncial Statements               Financial Statements                                                      - 41 -                                                                                     - 53 -                                                                                                                                                                           - 45 -                               31 December 2020                                                                                                        31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      105
-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                  37,181
                                                                                                 363,632

                                                                                                                      363,632




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,829
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                38,925
                                                                                                                                                                    1,744




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             239,069

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129,444
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                          21
                                                          Forward
                                                           Carry
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                  122,295
                                                                                                                      200,408




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31,767
                                                                                                 200,408




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                122,295




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           235
                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                             Expenditure
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                  159,476




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              400,280
                                                                                                 564,040

                                                                                                                      564,040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31,532




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                    1,744




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                161,220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             239,069

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129,679
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                          21
                                                          Total 2020

                                                          Available
                                                           Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        706,313
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  141,500
                                                                                                                      250,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    752,960




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,261,396
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                 250,000




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             239,069




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129,679




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          291,875
                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                          Received
                                                          Funding
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                  159,476
                                                                                                 314,040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              31,532




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (706,313)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (141,500)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,861,116)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                      314,040




                                                                                                                                                                    1,744




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (752,960)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                161,220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (291,875)
                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                          21
                                                          Balance c/f
                                                           Funding
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                         Project                                                                                               Budget                                             Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Funding        Funding 2020 Funds Funding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2019 Carry
 Donor                                Donor
                            Project Name                  code                          Project
                                                                                        KRA NameProg                                                            Type                                               code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation
 H       Support to OPOC -AUSTRALIA
                          FRENCH POLYNESIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (1,167,471)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (85,578)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (247,746)
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (129,679)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2,117,372)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -
                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (486,897)
                                                                                                                      -

                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (1)
                                                             Reallocation




                                                       Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                                                               5541     PD                                   OPT1                                        XB                                                                           911                                                                                -                                                                          911                                             -
 ESIA    Funding                                           5658       MS      TCAF1                                                                                    XB                                                        314,040                                                                            -                             314,040                                                         250,000                                                                       564,040                                                                              200,408                        363,
                                                                2020




 ome
 H     and    Expenditure - AUSTRALIA
                             Trust Fund (Sum   byofProgrammes)
                                          Review   Governance & Financing                                                                                                                                                     5542     ST                                   OPT1                                        XB                               (25,140)                                                                                                                       -              (25,140)                                                                                                    -
NESIA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                      314,040                                                                            -                             314,040         250,000                                                                                                                       564,040         200,408                                                                                             363,
 2020           Addressing ERW Contamination in        Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  159,476




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (706,313)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (141,500)
                                                                                                 314,040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              117,110

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           129,679
                                                                                                                                                                    1,744




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,167,471




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   247,746
                                                                                                                      314,040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (752,960)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                161,220




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9,829




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              256,256
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (291,875)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    486,897
                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                          21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1




                Pacific - GICHD AUSTRALIA              DFAT2583                                                                                                                                                               5654                          21ST            ASF1                                        XB                                                          21 73,827                                                                                           -                                     21 73,827                                                                            -
                                                             2019 Carry




                                                                     GE      OPT1       XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                              Forward




 Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      21                                                      -                                                               21                                                                -                                                                       21                                                                            -
                                                      Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                                                                         2020                                       Total 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 54 -
                               2019  Carry
                                 AUSTRALIA             2020
                                                      BBNJ              2020 Funding                                                                                                                                          5655     MS                               TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB                                                                                     2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      40,108      2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (15) Carry40,093
N CLIMATE          Prog                                                                                                                                                                                                        Funding
                                Forward
                Green Climate Fund Dialogue        Reallocation
                                                         3466         PI Balance
                                                                           OPT2 c/f XB                                                                                                                                             1,744                                       -                                                                                   Expenditure - Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,744                   1,744                                                                                                                                                                                                               -          1,
                   code                                                                                                                                                                                                        Received                                    Available
                                 AUSTRALIA            Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding                                                                                                                                           5656     MS                               TCAF1    XB                                                                                1,627,798  (688,278)      939,520                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                             Budget




N CLIMATE
                                5,635,789              (842,645)             4,793,144                                                                                                                                          7,848,909    12,642,053        3,137,540 -                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,504,513
                                                              Type




nce             NauruPI
                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB
                                                                                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                 XB



                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                      GCF Readiness Grant
                                 AUSTRALIA                3470
                                                       Ocean         GEManager
                                                             Analyst &      KRA2    XB                                                                                                                                        5691159,476
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS       - XB 159,476(311,966)      PER1                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 159,476
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (311,966) 122,295541,763 37,
NeCLIMATE            PS         6,151,757             (129,679)            6,022,078                                                                                                                                            8,236,120    14,258,198        4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                                         9,642,464
 pTotal
   and                          565,584             (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                             161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,795,880        -     161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PER1 2,240,572          266,271 -                                                                                                                                                                                                         161,220
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,974,301          122,295        38,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TCAF1
                                                                                                 TCAF1
                                                                  Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                    OPT2
                                                                                                                                          OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PER1




                     STWorkshopAUSTRALIA              Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                            5692     MS          XB        (212,654)                                                                                                                                                                                                            -       (212,654)        373,054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASF


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ASF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ASF


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ASF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ASF




 NL             Regional        on Trade                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ASF
OMICS CONS      Mainstreaming                             1423     PI     OPT2    XB                                                                                                                                               16,270                                          -     16,270            -                                                                                                                                                                                              16,270                                                                                            -        16,
 NL                  CS       (746,177)
                               AUSTRALIA               (602,466)
                                                       Ocean             (1,348,643)
                                                             Management Officer                                                                                                                                               5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS                                     (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PER1   - XB   (249,151) 67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      435,236
                                                                  KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MS
                                                                                                 MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GE
                                                                                                                                          GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ST
                                                                                                                                                                    PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI




OMICS CONS
 Secretariat        MS           5,358,837
                                 AUSTRALIA Total       (819,077)                                                                    4,539,760                                                                                   8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                13,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -     16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,829,225
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,021,979)     1,807,246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     16,270
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -        16,
Movement            FX           (250,109)
                                 AUSTRALIAN                      -                                                                  (250,109)                                                                                              -      (250,109)               -       (250,109)
                                                             Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3711A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3711B




NATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5635


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5638
                                                                                                                                                                    3466

                                                                                                                                                                                                  3470




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5801




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1400




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5641
                                                                                                                                          2583




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1423
                                                                                                 5658




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1249



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3711




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5630


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5636




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5640
                                                              code




                                 FEDERAL POLICE        VAW Scoping Study                                                                                                                                                      2256      GE   OPT1     XB          6,392            -          6,392                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
ATION OF             II             36,417                       -                                                                     36,417                                                                                     (36,417)                -               -                  -
ROSS                           AUSTRALIAN
           Legislating for Climate Smart DRM               5801      GE      OPT1                                                                                       XB                                                         9,829                                                                            -                                           9,829                                                                                 -                                                           9,829                                                                                     -          9,
BUTIONS
NATIONAL                       FEDERAL POLICE
                            16,752,098
                                                       Inter-Agency Border Training
                                                    (4,514,759)                                                             12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2547     GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB                                                                      1,122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,376,489                                                                       28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                                                          1,122                                                           -
                                                                                 Support to OPOC - FRENCH POLYNESIA




ATION OF                       AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Japan Contribution FY2019 (PALM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Japan Contribution FY2020 (PALM)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Legislating for Climate Smart DRM
                                                                                                                            Addressing ERW Contamination in




ROSS Total                     FEDERAL POLICE                                                                                                                                                                                                9,829                                                      -                                                       9,829                                                                                 -                                                           9,829                                                                                     -          9,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Implementation of PIASA Review




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEC - Technical Advisory Group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PEC Fund Management Project




           Implementation ofTotal
                                PIASA Review               1249                                       PI                        KRA3                                   XB                                                                        1                                                    (1)                                                           - 7,514                                                                           -                                 -                             - 7,514                                                                               -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PALM 5 - Pacific Environment
                                                                                                                                                                    Green Climate Fund Dialogue




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Regional Workshop on Trade
                                                                  Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Nauru GCF Readiness Grant




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PEC - Regional Workshops
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Miscellaneous (Voluntary




                Review of PIC Tokyo                        1400        MS       TCAF1       XB                                                                                                                                   117,110                                     (85,578)                                                                         31,532                                                                                  -                                                   31,532        31,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PEC - Technical Officer




                                 CHINA                 Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                                                                   1034     PI                                   KRA2                                        XB                                          495,578                                                                                                             -                       495,578                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PEC - Admin Assistant
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Review of PIC Tokyo




                Miscellaneous (Voluntary
                Contributions)   CHINA                 Trade  Office - Beijing
                                                            3711        GE - XBOPT1        XB                                                                                                                                 2105129,679
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS                              TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (129,679)                                       XB                                                          1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -              -                                                                                   -            1,102,656
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                      1,274,804
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Mainstreaming
                                                                                                                            Pacific - GICHD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PEC - Manager
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Contributions)




                Japan Contribution FY2019 (PALM)           3711A        GE     KRA1        XB                                                                                                                                           -                                       -                                                                                                    -        129,679                                                                                           129,679                                                                                     235       129,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Community




                Japan Contribution FY2020 (PALM)           3711B        GE     KRA1 - PT&I XB                                                                                                                                           -                                                                           -                      -        239,069                                                                                                                                     239,069                                                                                                     -       239,
                                                                                 Funding




                                                       Deputy Trade Commissioner                                                                                                                                                                                            PER1.
                PALM 5 - Pacific Environment
                                  CHINA                Beijing                                                                                                                                                                2108      PI                                    1                                         XB                (142,506)                                                                                                                                     -             (142,506)                                                                                              643,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Financial Statements




                Community                                   5630        ST      ASF        XB                                                                                                                                   (752,960)                                                                           -              (752,960)        752,960                                                                                                                                            -                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ECONOMICS CONS




                PEC Fund Management Project                5635PT&I Network
                                                                     ST       ASF       XB                                                                                                                                      1,167,471                             (1,167,471)                                                  -              -                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  ECONOMICS CONS




                                                       Support              including Review
                                                                                 POLYNESIA Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                  RED CROSS Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  GREEN CLIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNATIONAL



                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEDERATION OF
                                                                                                                                                              GREEN CLIMATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                  GREEN CLIMATE




                                                                                                                                                                                                  FEDERATION OF




                PEC - Manager CHINA                        5636
                                                       of Structure  ST      PER1       XB                                                                                                                                      (291,875)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2112      MS                              TCAF -                                          XB (291,875) 14,388 291,875                                                                                                                                     -                                              - 14,388                                                             -      -
                                                                  Donor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JAPAN Total
                                                                                                                                          GICHD Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                  FUND Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                  RED CROSS
                                                                                 POLYNESIA




                PEC - Technical Officer
                                  CHINA                    5637
                                                       Trade          ST (XB)ASF
                                                              Development                XB                                                                                                                                     (706,313)PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2141                                          KRA2                                    -   XB (706,313) 22,973 706,313                                                                                                                                     -                                               - 22,973                                                            -      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNL
                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERNL
                                                                                 FRENCH
                                                                                 FRENCH




                                                                                                                                                                                                  TOTAL
                                                                                                                                          GICHD




                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JAPAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           JAPAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  JAPAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   JAPAN




                                                       Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
                                                                                                                                                              FUND

                                                                                                                                                                                                  FUND




                PEC - Admin Assistant                      5638       ST       ASF       XB                                                                                                                                     (141,500)                                           -                                              (141,500)                                                                      141,500                                                                                                              -                                                                    -
                                  CHINA                C)-PRC                                                                                                                                                                 2224      PD                                  KRA2                                        XB                                                                                    -                                                                         -                                                                                       -                            366,797
                PEC - Technical Advisory Group             5640       ST       ASF       XB                                                                                                                                       486,897                                   (486,897)                                                      -                                                                            -                                                                                                              -                                                                    -
                PEC - Regional Workshops
                                 CHINA                     5641
                                                       China          ST Publicity
                                                             Scholarship       ASF                                                                                      XB                                                    3681247,746
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PD                                  (247,746)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KRA2                                        XB                                                             - (1,281)                                                      -                                 -                                              - (1,281)                                                            - 1,281
 Total                           CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                        256,256                          (2,117,372)                                          (1,861,116)      2,261,396
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,491,808                                                                                                                                            - 400,280
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,491,808 31,767
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,286,124368,

cial Statements                Financial Statements                                                                        - 40 -                                                                                             - 54 -                                                                                                                                  - 44 -                                31 December 2020                                                                                                           31 December 2020


              106             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (137,976)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,261,136




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            37,447
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,169
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               479,896



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,276,324
                                                                                                                                                                               12,713




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               638,162
                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (4,453)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,668,231




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  101,942
                                                              Forward
                                                               Carry
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            148,653
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (101,801)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,314,279




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      165,550
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                              (120)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               745,153




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               108,939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                     (62)




                                                                                                                                                                  (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,059,312




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  321,341
                                                                 Expenditure
                                                                    2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            186,100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (101,801)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,030




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,575,415




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      27,574
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                              (120)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               638,162
                                                                                                                                                                               12,713




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,225,049



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,276,324




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (4,453)
                                                                                                     (62)




                                                                                                                                                                  (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               108,939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,727,543




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  423,283
                                                              Total 2020

                                                              Available
                                                               Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            100,000
                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,722




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                72,164



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28,988
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,276,324




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               638,162




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,276,324
                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               93,725
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               108,939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,192,532




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  403,816
                                                              Received
                                                              Funding
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,842)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (101,801)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1,414)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            86,100
                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,299,091
                                                                                                                                                                               12,713




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,225,049




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (134)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (4,453)
                                                                                                                                                                  (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                     (62)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,535,011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19,467
                                                              Balance c/f
                                                               Funding
                                                                 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020          2020                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Total 2020             2020    20
 nformation                                         Project                                                                                                                   Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                        2019 Carry                                                                                                   2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020
  Donor                           Donor
                         Project Name                 code Project
  Income   and Expenditure         - Trust Fund (Sum        byKRA   NameProg
                                                                  Donors)                                                                                                      Type code      KRA
                                                                                                                                                                                         Forward                                                                                                   Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Reallocation         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          c/f       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Received            Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Received Forw
AN ANNUAL                   COMMONWEALTH
             Support Export to access reg & int
                                                                                                                            (63,318)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                     (54,374)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                               -

                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                  (117,692)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                 Reallocation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
mber   2020 markets
 TRIBUTION                  SECRETARIAT         Hub & 1909
                                                      Spoke Project
                                                                 PI - ComSec
                                                                        OPT2                     XB                                                                                                                   1420 54,312 PI     TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (54,374)XB                 (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (62)                 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -           (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (62)              16,070
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (62)
                                                                    2020




                                   2019 Carry
                                COMMONWEALTH                  2020              2020 Funding                                                                                                                          2020 Funding         Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2020 Carry
Donor
AN ANNUAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2020 Expenditure
                                    Forward              Reallocation            Balance c/f                                                                                                                            Received              Available                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Forward
 TRIBUTION                      SECRETARIAT
               Building a Resilient Private Sector              2026        PI     OPT21,807,246 XB                                                                                                                           63,318         (63,318)                    -
                                Total 2,829,225               (1,021,979)                                                                                                                                                    5,916,838             7,724,084                  2,854,172 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (4,240)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16,070
AN ANNUAL
 L POLICE                                     7,514                      -                   7,514                                                                                                                                     -                 7,514                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7,514
                                                                                                                            63,318




                                                                                                                                                                                                              (1,842)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (101,801)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1,414)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            86,100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                               12,713




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       41,169
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,299,091



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,225,049




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (134)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (4,453)
                                                                                                     54,312




                                                                                                                                                                  117,630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  19,467
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,535,011
                                                                 2019 Carry




 TRIBUTION                      CONSERVATION           Conservation Interntional   Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                         for Pac
                                                                  Forward




                                         1,491,808                       -                                                                                                                                                   2,286,124             3,777,932                  1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,824,851
 l
CRETARIAT                       INTERNATIONAL
                                            (4,240)    Ocean Comm. -                       (4,240)                                                                                                                    5652 117,630ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                16,070      (117,692)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       11,830        (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (96,622)   11,830 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -        (62)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (96,622) -    (62)    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - 55 -
 RNATIONAL                      CONSERVATION
                                           (96,622)                      -                (96,622)                                                                                                                                     -            (96,622)                            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (96,622)
 EA            ROK-PIF 2014-2016INTERNATIONAL
                                    Coop. (1,247)
                                            Fund                3622     - ST      OPT1 (1,247)  XB                                                                                                                           12,713 -                -(1,247) 12,713                   - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             12,713 (1,247)         -        1
                                Total              -                     -                        -                                                                                                                            183,542               183,542          (96,622)          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -         (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             183,542               -
                                                                 Budget
                                                                  Type




                                         4,519,157            (1,190,338)               3,328,819                                                                                                                            7,712,102            11,040,921                  2,455,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                               XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB
 EA            ROK-RPCF 2015-2017 Coop.        Fund    SOI  Regional
                                                                3627  Capacity  Development
                                           314,040                       - GE      OPT1 314,040  XB                                                                                                                           (1,842)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               250,000                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     564,040      (1,842)             1,722
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (120)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             363,632      (120)
                                CSIRO                  Workshop                                                                                                                                                       5653       MS      TCAF1          XB              (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -           (1,247)             -
                                                 21                      -                      21                                                                                                                                     -                    21                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TCAF1




 D                                         161,220                       -                161,220                                                                                                                                      -             161,220            (1,247) 122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        38,925
                                                                      Prog




                                                                                                                            OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                               OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1
                                                                                                     OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PER1




               ROK/RPCF2018-2020CSIRO- Total
                                        Climate                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -           (1,247)             -
  NOMICS CONSULTING                          16,270                      -                  16,270                                                                                                                                     -               16,270                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16,270
 EA            Prediction Services
                                DT Global 9,829                 3633
                                                        DFAT E-commerce    GE      KRA1          XB                                                                                                                   14581,299,091                   -XB      1,299,091       - 1,276,324                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         - 2,575,4159,829- 1,314,279
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             183,542 1,26
 ERATION OF RED CROSS                                                    - AFT Fund          9,829                                                                                                                                PI - KRA2              9,829                          -
                                                                      KRA




                                DT Global256,256              (2,117,372)             (1,861,116)                                                                                                                            2,261,396               400,280                     31,767                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      368,513
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MS




                                            Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CS
                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
                                                                                                     PI




  RIBUTION     ROK/RPCF2018-2020 - Trade,  117,630
                                                Tourism &       (117,692)                     (62)                                                                                                                                     -                  (62)                      (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
 EA            Promtion                  2,535,011              3634     - GE      KRA22,535,011 XB                                                                                                                          3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,225,049                5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -        1,225,049      2,059,312 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3,668,231 745,153
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,225,049                         47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2033XB
                                                                 Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5655A




                                             19,467                      -
                                                       Public Finance Management      & 19,467                                                                                                                                 403,816               423,283                    321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      101,942
                                                                                                                            2026




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3638



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1375




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2125
                                                                                                                                                                               3622

                                                                                                                                                                                                              3627




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3726
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3633




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               9000
                                                                                                     1909




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3637




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2207
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3634
                                                                  code




                                EUROPEAN   517,349
                                              UNION    Governance -                       517,349                                                                                                                     1002      88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI     KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB            732,869 9,331                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -         596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              732,869              -
               Multisensory Remote Sensing-Control -                     -                        -                                                                                                                             75,320                 75,320                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      75,320
 EA            IUU Fishing                    3,968             3637     - GE      KRA1 3,968    XB                                                                                                                                  --               - 3,968            -       1,276,324
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,276,3243,968            -     1,27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROK/RPCF2018-2020 - Trade, Tourism &



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Multisensory Remote Sensing-Control




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                National Security Policy Development




                                           188,825                       -                188,825                                                                                                                              126,518               315,343                            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Support to Internal Reform Priorities
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ROK-PIF COVID-19 Recovery Project




                                EUROPEAN
                                   RecoveryUNION
                                               Project 4: Bank3638
                                                                 Charges
                                                                    (285) &GE
                                                                            Exch rate differences                                                                                                                    1002H        PI - - OPT2         -XB                - (38) 638,162                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            - 638,1625,157  (38)            - 63
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PT&I Trade Commissioner - Beijing
                                                                                     Support Export to access reg & int




 EA            ROK-PIF COVID-19               5,442                                KRA1      5,157
                                                                                                 XB                                                                                                                                                      5,157                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                            Building a Resilient Private Sector




                                                                                                                                                                                                              ROK-RPCF 2015-2017 Coop. Fund




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FICs Contribution to Tokyo Office




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding
                                                                                                                                                                               ROK-PIF 2014-2016 Coop. Fund




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WTO Office - Operational Costs




                                         3,678,143                     (7)              3,678,136                                                                                                                            4,399,159             8,077,295                  1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    6,348,434 2,059,312
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                ROK/RPCF2018-2020 - Climate




                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2,535,011                   -        2,535,011         3,192,532                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           5,727,543                       3,66
  EA Total
                                                                      Project Name




 UND                            EUROPEAN UNION2,464     PFM Programme    - Administrator 2,464                                                                                                                        1003        PI - PER1              2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB              (3,277)         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -             2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (3,277)             -
                                             28,830                      -                  28,830                                                                                                                                     -               28,830                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      28,830
 MBERS         WTO Office - Operational Costs 8,988             1375     - PI      KRA3 8,988    XB                                                                                                                             (134) -               - 8,988       (134)           72,164
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               72,0308,988            -        7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PT&I Auckland (XB)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Prediction Services




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MISC HISTORIC XB




 MBERS         PT&I Auckland (XB)            12,457           2033XB - PI          TCAF1 12,457  XB                                                                                                                        (101,801) -                -12,457 (101,801)                 - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (101,801) 12,457 (101,801)
 MERICA                         EUROPEAN      UNION
                                           336,123      PFM Research    Officer
                                                                  (3,377)                 332,746                                                                                                                     1008        PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                14,615    PER1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     347,361                   - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -         348,568-              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     IUU Fishing




  OUTH PACIFIC                                  977                      -                     977                                                                                                                                     -                   977                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Workshop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Promtion




 MBERS         PT&I Trade Commissioner -52,862Beijing           2102
                                                                 (27,292) PI        PER1 25,570  XB                                                                                                                           (1,414)                 -           (1,414)           28,988                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              27,574
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,072,795 165,550         (137
                                                                                     markets




 T SERVICES                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,069,465             1,095,035                     22,240
 ENT & DEVELOPMENT                            1,002    PRP   Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                                         -                   1,002                                                                                                                                     -                 1,002                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1,002
                                EUROPEAN UNION         Coordinator-1.1.1                                                                                                                                              3475        PI      PER1          XB            144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -          144,858              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Financial Statements




 MBERS         FICs Contribution to Tokyo Office                2125       MS      TCAF1         XB                                                                                                                           86,100                  -           86,100           100,000                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             186,100          148,653         3
                                           (84,864)    Private Sector Cl.- Change-Finance (84,864)                                                                                                                             586,943               502,079                    540,382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (38,303)
 NISATION      National Security Policy Development
                                             37,885                      -                  37,885
                                EUROPEAN UNION         Officer-1.1.2                                                                                                                                                  3476        PI - PER1            37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB            214,637           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          -           37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              214,637              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  MEMBERS Total
                                                                                                                          JAPAN ANNUAL
                                                                                                                          CONTRIBUTION
                                                                                     JAPAN ANNUAL

                                                                                                                          JAPAN ANNUAL
                                                                                     CONTRIBUTION

                                                                                                                          CONTRIBUTION




 MBERS
 ROM PROPERTY,Workshop
                PLANT &                            -            2207     - PD      OPT1          XB
                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                           (4,453)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               264,945                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     264,945      (4,453)       264,945 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (4,453)       -                 (4
                                                                      Donor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 KOREA Total




                                EUROPEAN UNION          Finance Officer - 1.1.3                                                                                                                                       3477        PI      PER1          XB              49,929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -            49,929             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MEMBERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEMBERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MEMBERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            MEMBERS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 MEMBERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       MEMBERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MEMBERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MEMBERS




 MBERS         Support to Internal Reform Priorities            3726       CS      OPT3          XB                                                                                                                           41,169                  -           41,169                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             41,169                 -        4
                                             36,417              (36,417)                         -                                                                                                                                    -                     -                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                              KOREA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KOREA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KOREA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     KOREA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KOREA




                                EUROPEAN UNION          Travel & Subsistence - 1.2                                                                                                                                    3480        PI     OPT2           XB              (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -           (4,763)             -
                                                                                                                          Total




  GN EXCHANGE Support to OPOC -DFAT (250,109)
 MBERS                                    Funding              5655A - MS          TCAF1(250,109)XB                                                                                                                                  --            (250,109)             -    (197,937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   108,939                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (52,172) 108,939
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       108,939
 ONS FROM DONORS                       16,752,098
                                EUROPEAN      UNION     Office(4,514,759)
                                                               Costs - 1.3            12,237,339                                                                                                                      3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI     KRA2 41,085,074XB                   12,376,493
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -     28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              131,617              -
 MBERS         MISC HISTORIC XB                                 9000                                                                                                                                                                 -                -                  -          93,725                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              93,725                 -        9
                                                       Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
 MBERS Total                    EUROPEAN UNION         1.1                                                                                                                                                                  3482                            19,467
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI                                       KRA2                                               -XB                                                 19,467
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   168,270                                                                                403,816                                                                  -                                423,283
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         168,270                                                                  321,341                  - 10


 ncial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                                     - 41 -                                                                                                             - 55 -                                                                                                                                                           - 45 -                                                 31 December 2020                                                                                                                                                                               31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       107
-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                    51,534




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47,886
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,393




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,258
                                                                                                                                                                         2,278




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,040
                                                                                   7,294
                                                                                                           54,139




                                                                                                                                                                                                               82,611

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7,614




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              734




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (47,346)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75,320

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        350,430
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                596,368
                                                            Forward
                                                             Carry
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                   -
                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (40,928)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                               Expenditure




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        50,259
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,331
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                    51,534




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47,886
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,393

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              734
                                                                                                                                                                         2,278




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,258




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,040
                                                                                   7,294
                                                                                                           54,139




                                                                                                                                                                                                               82,611

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7,614




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,800
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (88,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75,320

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        400,689
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                605,699
                                                            Total 2020

                                                            Available
                                                             Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75,320




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                88,350
                                                            Received
                                                            Funding
                                                              2020




                                                                                                                                    51,534




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,393
                                                                                                           54,139




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,258




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47,886
                                                                                                                                                                         2,278




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              734
                                                                                   7,294




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7,614




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,800




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,040




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                               82,611




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (88,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,548




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        312,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                517,349
                                                            Balance c/f
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                           Project                                                                                                                                             Budget                                           Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2019 Carry
 Donor                                Donor
                            Project Name                    code                        Project
                                                                                        KRA NameProg                                                                                                            Type                                             code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                    -

                                                                                                                                                                         -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                   -
                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                               Reallocation




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
 EALAND                    AUSTRALIA
         PACER Plus Activities                           Pacific
                                                             1226Plan Review
                                                                         PI (XB)KRA3                                                                                                                                 XB                                            5541 7,294
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PD                                                                                           OPT1                                                -                XB                                              7,294                                                                      911                               -                                 -              7,294                                  911                       -      - 7,
                                                                  2020




 EALAND       PACER Informal Meeting                       1227     PI     KRA3        XB                                                                                                                                                                               54,139                                                                                                                                               -                                                           54,139                                                                                                            -                                   54,139                                                                        -          54,
 ome and     Expenditure     - AUSTRALIA
                                Trust Fund           (Sum   byofProgrammes)
                                                       Review   Governance & Financing                                                                                                                                                                             5542      ST                                                                                          OPT1                                                                 XB                                               (25,140)                                                                                                                                      -       (25,140)                                                                       -
 2020
 EALAND        PACER Mini Trade Ministers Meeting        Enhancing
                                                            1228 Pacific
                                                                      PI OceanKRA3
                                                                               GovernanceXB-                                                                                                                                                                                                         51,534                                                                                                                  -                                                           51,534                                                                                                            -                                               51,534                                                            -          51,
                                                                                                                                    51,534




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,258
                                                                                                                                                                         2,278




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14,393

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              734
                                                                                   7,294
                                                                                                           54,139




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              7,614




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,800


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   47,886
                                                                                                                                                                                                               82,611




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6,003




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,548
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (88,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        312,339
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                517,349
                               AUSTRALIA                 DFAT                                                                                                                                                                                                      5654                                   ST                                                             ASF1                                                                 XB                                                                                               73,827                                                                                        -                                                 73,827                               -
                                                               2019 Carry
                                                                Forward




 EALAND        Regional Trade Facilitation Support      Support
                                                           1232for PIF Members
                                                                       PI      attendance
                                                                             KRA3       XBat                                                                                                                                                                          2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,278                                                                                              Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - 2020 2,278          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,278                                                            -           2,




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 56 -
                              2019    Carry
                                AUSTRALIA                2020
                                                        BBNJ              2020 Funding                                                                                                                                                                             5655      MS                                                                                          TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB           2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             40,108                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (15) Carry40,093
                   ProgFTMM Forward                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Funding
 EALAND        Special                               Reallocation
                                                           1244        PI Balance
                                                                             KRA1 c/f XB                                                                                                                                                                                82,611                                                                                                  -         Expenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      82,611          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           82,611                                                                            -          82,
                   code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Received                                                                                                           Available
                                AUSTRALIA                Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding                                                                                                                                                                             5656                                                         MS                                       TCAF1                                                                XB                                                                      1,627,798                                                                           (688,278)                                                                           939,520                               -
                                                               Budget




                               5,635,789                 (842,645)             4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                             7,848,909                                                                                              12,642,053   7,614 3,137,540 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                9,504,513
                                                                Type




nce
 EALAND              PI Review-PITIC
               Triennial             Auckland               2116       MS    TCAF1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                7,614                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7,614                -          7,
                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB

                                AUSTRALIA                Ocean Analyst & Manager                                                                                                                                                                                   5691      MS                                                                                          PER1     XB         (311,966)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -        (311,966)         541,763
e                   PS
               PT&I Trade      6,151,757
                          Commissioner  - Auckland      (129,679)            6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                               8,236,120                                                                                              14,258,198         4,615,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  9,642,464
pEALAND
  and          (XB)
                                  565,584                  2161
                                                      (2,120,892)  MS      TCAF1     XB
                                                                           (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                                (88,274)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3,795,880                                                                                                  -     (88,274)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PER1 2,240,572           266,271 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (88,274)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1,974,301           (40,928)       (47,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TCAF1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TCAF1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TCAF1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          KRA1/
                                                                    Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OPT3
                                                                                                                                    KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1
                                                                                   KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                         KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KRA1
                                                                                                           KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPT1




                                AUSTRALIA               Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                                                               5692      MS                                                                                                   XB         (212,654)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -        (212,654)         373,054
                    ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2




 EALAND        Forum Chair Support (PIFS/NZ)-UNGA69    2238     GE     OPT1    XB                                                                                                                                                                                       14,393                                                                                                  -     14,393            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14,393                                                            -        14,
                   CS          (746,177)
                               AUSTRALIA            (602,466)
                                                    Ocean             (1,348,643)
                                                          Management Officer                                                                                                                                                                                       5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MS                                      (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -     (249,151)                                    (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PER1     XB             67,022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          435,236
                                                                    KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PS
                                                                                                                                    PI
                                                                                   PI




                                                                                                                                                                         PI
                                                                                                           PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PD




 Secretariat
 EALAND        New MS
                    Zealand Human5,358,837
                                 AUSTRALIA
                                    Rights Total       (819,077)
                                                          2422      GE     4,539,760
                                                                          OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           734       13,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -         734 4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,829,225     -    8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,021,979)    1,807,246
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5,916,838
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
Movement                         (250,109)
                                 AUSTRALIAN
                    FXSecurity Fund                               - GE     (250,109)                                                                                                                                                                                            -      (250,109)                --      (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5656NZ
                                                               Project




                                                                                                                                    1228




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2238

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2422



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3632
                                                                                   1226




                                                                                                                                                                         1232




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3697


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5108
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5117




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2582
                                                                                                           1227




                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2116




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3630
                                                                                                                                                                                                               1244




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4706
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2161




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3631
                                                                code




 EALAND        Regional          FEDERAL POLICE           3630
                                                       VAW Scoping Study  OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                              2256  6,003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GE   OPT1   - XB    6,003  6,392            - 6,003   6,392                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -      - 6,
 EALAND              II Security Fund36,417
               Regional               - NZ                3631 - GE       OPT1 36,417
                                                                                   XB                                                                                                                                                                                  (36,417)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           152           -     - 152            --           152 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                 AUSTRALIAN
BUTIONS
 EALAND        Forum Ministerial FEDERAL
                                  Contact Group
                                           POLICE- NZ Inter-Agency
                                                          3632      GE Training
                                                                   Border OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                              2547 1,258
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            GE                                                                                           OPT1                                                 -               XB                                              1,258 1,122                                                                                                  -                                 -              1,258 1,122                                                      -      - 1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Forum Chair Support (PIFS/NZ)-UNGA69




                               16,752,098            (4,514,759)          12,237,339                                                                                                                                                                                    28,847,737                                                                                                          41,085,076                                                                                                                              12,376,489                                                                                           28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Forum Ministerial Contact Group - NZ

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Cairns Compact Implementation - NZ
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PT&I Trade Commissioner - Auckland




                                 AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                    PACER Mini Trade Ministers Meeting

                                                                                                                                                                         Regional Trade Facilitation Support




 EALAND                          FEDERAL POLICE
               Cairns Compact Implementation    - NZ      3697     PD     OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,800                                                                                                                  -                                                                1,800                                                                                                        -                                                1,800                                                            -           1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Support for Forum Meetings -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Triennial Review-PITIC Auckland




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Regional Youth Art Competition




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Pacific Regional ERW Workshop
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         OPOC-DFAT: MFAT Component




                                 Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     7,514                                                                             -                                                  7,514                               -
                                                                    Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              New Zealand Human Rights




 EALAND        FBEAP Review                               4706      PD    OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,548                                                                                                                  -                                                                2,548                                                                                                        -                                                2,548                                                            -           2,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Regional Security Fund - NZ




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Romania Voluntary Funds
                                                                                                           PACER Informal Meeting




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Regional Security Fund




 EALAND        Support for ForumCHINA
                                 Meetings -XB                5108
                                                         Pacific          PSFacility-China
                                                                 Resilience        KRA1 XB XB                                                                                                                                                                      1034 47,886PI                                                                                         KRA2                                                -                XB                                         47,886495,578                                                                                                     -                                 - 47,886495,578                                                                 -      - 47,
                                                                                   PACER Plus Activities




 EALAND        Regional Youth ArtCHINA
                                  Competition                5117
                                                         Trade           MS - XB
                                                               Office - Beijing OPT3                                                                                                                                 XB                                            2105 13,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MS                                                                                          TCAF1                                              -                 XB                                     13,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,102,656      -                                                                                                                                    - 13,040
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1,102,656      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,274,804 13,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FBEAP Review
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Special FTMM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      312,339                                                                                                                                               -                                                       312,339        88,350                                                                                                                                     400,689        50,259       350,
 EALAND        OPOC-DFAT: MFAT Component                   5656NZ      MS    TCAF1        XB
 EALAND                                                  Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                             517,349                                                                                            PER1.                                              -                                                       517,349         88,350                                                                                                                                        605,699                                                   9,331       596,
                                 CHINA                   Beijing                                                                                                                                                                                                   2108     PI                                                                                             1                                                                  XB                                          (142,506)                                                                                                                                          -          (142,506)                                                643,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (XB)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Financial Statements




                                                                              KRA1/
 NIA           Romania Voluntary Funds                                 MS
                                                         Support PT&I Network   2
                                                                              including   XB
                                                                                        Review                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                           -                                                                                                       -                                                                75,320                                            75,320                                                                -          75,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ROMANIA TOTAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ZEALAND




                               CHINA                     of Structure                                                                                                                                                                                              2112                                                         MS                                       TCAF                                                                 XB                                                                                               14,388                                                                                        -                                                 14,388                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAFE GROUND
                                                                                   NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                           NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                    NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NEW ZEALAND

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NEW ZEALAND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         NEW ZEALAND




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              SAFE GROUND
                                                                    Donor




 NIA TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     22,973 75,320                                                                                 - 75,320 22,973                                                                 -      - 75,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ROMANIA




                                 CHINA                   Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                                                                                                    2141                                                                  PI                              KRA2                                                                 XB
                                                         Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Total




GROUND                            CHINA
               Pacific Regional ERW Workshop             C)-PRC
                                                             2582      GE       OPT1       XB                                                                                                                                                                      2224 3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PD                                                                                           KRA2                                                - XB                                                             3,968                                                                                           -            -                                 -              3,968                                       -                    -366,797 3,
GROUND
                                 CHINA                   China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                                                                                               3681 3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PD                                                                                           KRA2                                               -                 XB                                              3,968 (1,281)                                                                                                -                                 -              3,968 (1,281)                                                    - 1,281 3,

                                 CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,491,808                                                                                                               -                           1,491,808                                   2,286,124

cial Statements                Financial Statements                                                                                 - 40 -                                                                                                                        - 56 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                           - 44 -                                                                               31 December 2020                                                                               31 December 2020


             108             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

                                                                                     315,343




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (38,342)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  201,135
                                                                                                                                      5,157




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               337,039
                                                                                                                        315,343




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,975




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                927,757
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61,934




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,735,655
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,475,842




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               207,542




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,286




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,157




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        213,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      213,858
                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6,348,434
                                                              Forward
                                                               Carry
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   372,129
                                                                                     -



                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      30,336




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  841,162

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                157,784
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              300,129




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         21,164

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6,316
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (159)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1,728,861
                                                                 Expenditure




                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                    2020



                                                                                     315,343




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   333,787
                                                                                                                                      5,157




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               337,039
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,042,297
                                                                                                                        315,343




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,975




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                927,757
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      92,270




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                157,784




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,035,784
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,497,006

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,286




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        213,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      213,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               213,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,157
                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (159)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,077,295
                                                              Total 2020

                                                              Available
                                                               Funds



                                                                                     126,518



                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   96,160




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                        126,518




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                927,757
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                157,784
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               213,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,073,192




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        213,858

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      213,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,497,006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            5,686
                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4,399,159
                                                              Received
                                                              Funding
                                                                2020




                                                                                     188,825



                                                                                                                                      5,157

                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,042,297
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,975




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               337,039




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   237,627

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      92,270
                                                                                                                        188,825




                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,157




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,286




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,962,592
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (5,845)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3,678,136
                                                              Balance c/f
                                                               Funding
                                                                 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2020          2020                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Total 2020             2020    20
 nformation                                      Project                                                                                                                                                 Budget Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Carry                                                                                                           2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding       Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2020
   Donor                        Donor
                       Project Name                code Project
  Income  and Expenditure       - Trust Fund (Sum        byKRA   NameProg
                                                              Donors)                                                                                                                                     Type code      KRA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Forward                                                                                                           Prog      Type Balance
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Reallocation         Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             c/f       ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Received            Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Received Forw
                         COMMONWEALTH
                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                              (285)
                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                (285)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (7)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                 Reallocation




mber
 N
      2020 Support to OPOCSECRETARIAT
                            -SPANISH Funding Hub & 5657      MS - ComSec
                                                   Spoke Project    TCAF1                        XB                                                                                                                                  1420 188,825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI     TCAF1        -XB        188,825(4,240) 126,518                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       - 315,343 (4,240)                                                                            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16,070 31
                                                                    2020




                                  2019 Carry
                              COMMONWEALTH                   2020              2020 Funding                                                                                                                                          2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2020 Carry
Donor                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2020 Expenditure
 N Total                           Forward              Reallocation             Balance c/f                                                                                                                                               188,825
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Received                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Available          188,825            126,518                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Forward                                                                                   -         31
                              SECRETARIAT
                              Total 2,829,225                (1,021,979)                1,807,246                                                                                                                                          5,916,838             7,724,084                  2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -      4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (4,240)                                                                           16,070
 L POLICE                                   7,514Fund                   - PD       OPT1 7,514                                                                                                                                                 5,157 -               - 7,514                           - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,1577,514
                                                                                                                                      5,157

                                                                                                                                                                              285
                                                                                     188,825




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,962,592




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               337,039
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (5,845)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   237,627
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7,975




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1,042,297




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      92,277
                                                                                                                        188,825




                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,442




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,286




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3,678,143
NDING FUND    Regional Natural Disaster Relief                 3610                              XB                                                                                                                                                                               5,157                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                 2019 Carry




                              CONSERVATION             Conservation Interntional   Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                         for Pac
                                                                  Forward




                                      1,491,808                         -                                                                                                                                                                  2,286,124             3,777,932                  1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,824,851
CRETARIAT                     INTERNATIONAL
                                          (4,240)      Ocean   Comm.    -                  (4,240)                                                                                                                                   5652       ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              16,070   TCAF1         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11,830          (96,622)   11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -        (96,622)-                                                                               -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 57 -
NDING FUND
RNATIONAL     PNG EarthquakeCONSERVATION
                                2018 Fundraising
                                        (96,622)               4471     - MS       OPT3 (96,622) XB                                                                                                                                             285 -          (285)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (96,622)              -             -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (96,622)                                                                            -
NDING FUND                    INTERNATIONAL
                                          (1,247)                       -                  (1,247)                                                                                                                                                   -              (1,247)                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,247)
 l                            Total              -                      -                         -                                                                                                                                           5,442
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             183,542           (285)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   183,542        5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (96,622)          - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -     5,157
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     183,542                                                                            -    -
                                                                 Budget
                                                                  Type




                                      4,519,157              (1,190,338)                3,328,819                                                                                                                                          7,712,102            11,040,921                  2,455,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                     XB



                                                                                                                                      XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB




              Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-SOI Regional Capacity Development
                                         314,040                        -                 314,040                                                                                                                                            250,000               564,040                     200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               363,632
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




WAN           C)              CSIRO                          2234
                                                       Workshop           PD      KRA1        XB                                                                                                                                     5653      MS -    TCAF1        -XB                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1,247)   1,497,006                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   - 1,497,006
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (1,247)                                                   21,164                       - 1,47
                                               21                       -                       21                                                                                                                                                   -                    21                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21
                                                                                     TCAF1




D             Aid Management     and Capacity  Building
                                         161,220                        -                 161,220                                                                                                                                                    -             161,220                     122,295                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                38,925
                                                                      Prog




                                                                                                                                                                              OPT3
                                                                                                                                      OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   KRA1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KRA1




                              CSIRO Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (1,247)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PER1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -         (1,247)                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KRA1




WAN           (XB)
 NOMICS CONSULTING                        16,270               3404     - PD       OPT1 16,270   XB                                                                                                                                           1,286 -               -16,270       1,286               - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,286
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      16,270                                                                    -
ERATION OF RED CROSS          DT Global 9,829          DFAT E-commerce  - AFT Fund           9,829                                                                                                                                   1458       PI - KRA2             XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9,829                 -        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -           9,829-                                                                183,542
WAN           FS Fellowship Scheme 256,256                     3608        PD      OPT1          XB                                                                                                                                           7,975                 -             7,975         31,767 -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          7,975                                                                         -
                                                                      KRA




                                                             (2,117,372)              (1,861,116)                                                                                                                                          2,261,396               400,280                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           368,513
                                                                                                                                                                              MS
                                                                                     MS



                                                                                                                                      PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PD




                              DT Global Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  GE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                GE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PD




 RIBUTION                                117,630               (117,692)                      (62)                                                                                                                                                   -                  (62)                       (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
WAN           Taiwan ROC Scholarship2,535,011
                                        Fund                   3615     - GE       KRA12,535,011 XB                                                                                                                                        3,192,532
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         1,962,592               5,727,543
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -        1,962,592      2,059,312
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,073,192                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,668,231
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,035,784                                                        300,129                           2,73
                                                                 Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3649A




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3657A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3649B

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3649C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3657B




                                          19,467                        -
                                                       Public Finance Management      & 19,467                                                                                                                                               403,816               423,283                     321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               101,942
                                                                                                                                                                              4471




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3615
                                                                                     5657



                                                                                                                                      3610




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3608



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3616




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           3694
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               3650
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3657
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3628
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3404




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3629
                                                                  code




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2234




WAN           SIS Development   Fund
                              EUROPEAN   517,349
                                           UNION               3616
                                                       Governance -        ST      OPT2   517,349XB                                                                                                                                  1002 (5,845)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              88,350
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI     KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB         (5,845)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     732,869 9,331  5,686                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -     (159)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     732,869                                                     (159)                       -
WAN           SIS Attachment Programme           -             3628     - GE       KRA1           -
                                                                                                 XB                                                                                                                                           75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           237,627                  -75,320    237,627                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   96,160                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             75,320
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                333,787                                                        372,129                            (38
                                            3,968                       -                    3,968                                                                                                                                                   -                 3,968                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3,968
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Support to PPA Utility Scheme & Energy
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pacific Humanitarian Pathway-XB (PHP-

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Aid Management and Capacity Building




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Review of Economic Returns - Fisheries




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  CROP Oceans Advocacy & Engagement




              Taiwan-ROC Regional Development
                                         188,825                        -                 188,825                                                                                                                                            126,518               315,343                            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              315,343
                                                                                                                                      Regional Natural Disaster Relief Fund




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cairns Compact Implementation - XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Programme Implementation Officer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Secure Limits BluePacific - SeaLevel
                                                                                     Support to OPOC -SPANISH Funding




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Taiwan-ROC Regional Development




WAN           Assistance      EUROPEAN UNION           4: Bank3629
                                                                Charges
                                                                   (285) &GEExch rate differences
                                                                                   KRA1          XB                                                                                                                                 1002H 92,277PI - OPT2        (7)XB 5,157 92,270 (38)              - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -             (38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 92,2705,157                                                    30,336                       -     6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               COP26 Advocacy and Engagement
                                                                                                                                                                              PNG Earthquake 2018 Fundraising




                                            5,442                                            5,157
               Secure Limits BluePacific - SeaLevel
                                      3,678,143                       (7)               3,678,136XB                                                                                                                                        4,399,159             8,077,295                  1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Taiwan ROC Scholarship Fund


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SIS Attachment Programme
                                                                      Project Name




WAN
UND           Rise Baseline EUROPEAN UNION  2,464             3649A - Administrator
                                                       PFM Programme       GE      KRA1 2,464                                                                                                                                        1003       PI - PER1           -XB2,464            -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3,277)     213,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - 213,858   2,464
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3,277)                                                                           -    - 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Joint CROP-SISAP Project




                                          28,830                        -                   28,830
                                                                                                 XB                                                                                                                                                  -               28,830                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SIS Development Fund
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       FS Fellowship Scheme




                                            8,988                       -                    8,988                                                                                                                                                   -                 8,988                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,988
WAN           Review of Economic Returns - Fisheries          3649B        PI      KRA2                                                                                                                                                                             -                             213,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       213,858                                                                                 -         21
                                          12,457                        -                   12,457                                                                                                                                                   -               12,457                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               12,457
                              EUROPEAN     UNION       PFM Research    Officer                   XB                                                                                                                                  1008       PI      PER1          XB                     - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
MERICA                                   336,123                 (3,377)                  332,746                                                                                                                                             14,615               347,361                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           348,568-                                                                                -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Rise Baseline




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Programme




WAN
 OUTH PACIFIC COP26 Advocacy and Engagement   977             3649C - PI           KRA2        977                                                                                                                                                   -                   977                      213,858
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         213,858 977                                                      6,316                            20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Assistance




T SERVICES                                52,862                (27,292)                    25,570                                                                                                                                         1,069,465             1,095,035                      22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,072,795
WAN           Programme Implementation Officer PRP Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                               3650        ST      PER1          XB                                                                                                                                        337,039                  -          337,039                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       337,039                                                                                 -         33
ENT & DEVELOPMENT                           1,002                       -                    1,002                                                                                                                                                   -                 1,002                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bldg
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (XB)




                              EUROPEAN UNION           Coordinator-1.1.1                                                                                                                                                             3475       PI      PER1         XB              144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -        144,858                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        C)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Financial Statements




WAN           Joint CROP-SISAP Project                         3657        GE      KRA1          XB                                                                                                                                      1,042,297                  -        1,042,297                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     1,042,297                                                        841,162                            20
                                        (84,864)
              Support to PPA Utility Scheme    & Energy                 - Change-Finance
                                                       Private Sector Cl.                 (84,864)                                                                                                                                           586,943               502,079                     540,382                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (38,303)
NISATION                      EUROPEAN37,885                  3657A - GE           KRA1 37,885                                                                                                                                                  PI - - PER1         -37,885                           -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               37,885 157,784
                                                                                                                                                                              STANDING FUND
                                                                                                                                      STANDING FUND

                                                                                                                                                                              STANDING FUND




WAN           Bldg                         UNION       Officer-1.1.2                             XB                                                                                                                                  3476                            XB              214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -         157,784                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -        214,637
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                157,784                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN Total




ROM PROPERTY,CROP
               PLANT    & Advocacy & Engagement
                     Oceans                      -                      -                         -                                                                                                                                          264,945               264,945                     264,945                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                      Donor



                                                                                                                        SPAIN Total




                              EUROPEAN UNION           Finance Officer - 1.1.3                                                                                                                                                       3477       PI      PER1          XB               49,929                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -         49,929                                                                                 -
WAN           Programme                                       3657B        GE      KRA1          XB                                                                                                                                                -                -                   -         927,757                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       927,757               -                                                                           92
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               TAIWAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TAIWAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           TAIWAN




                                          36,417                (36,417)                          -                                                                                                                                                  -                     -                          -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                              EUROPEAN UNION           Travel & Subsistence - 1.2                                                                                                                                                    3480       PI     OPT2           XB              (4,763)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -         (4,763)                                                                                -
                                                                                     SPAIN




                                                                                                                                                                              Total




 GN EXCHANGE                           (250,109)                        -               (250,109)                                                                                                                                                    -           (250,109)                  (197,937)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (52,172)
WAN           Cairns CompactEUROPEAN
ONS FROM DONORS                Implementation
                                     16,752,098
                                           UNION  - XB Office(4,514,759)
                                                               3694 - 1.3 PD
                                                              Costs                OPT1
                                                                                      12,237,339 XB                                                                                                                                           2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     3481 28,847,735
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PI                  -XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA2 41,085,074            2,895    12,376,493 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     131,617                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -     2,895
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     131,617          -                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3,678,143               (7)         3,678,136          4,399,159                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     8,077,295       1,728,861                                                                          6,34
 WAN Total                                               Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
                                   EUROPEAN UNION        1.1                                                                                                                                                                            3482                                                               PI                                  KRA2                                                                XB                                        168,270                                                                                                                        -                             168,270                                                            -


 ncial Statements                Financial Statements                                                                      - 41 -                                                                                                                        - 57 -                                                                                                                                                                                  - 45 -                                                   31 December 2020                                                                                                                      31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          109
-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,072,795
                                                                                                                                       18,029




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,196




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      348,568




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,072,795
                                                                                          2,464




                                                                                                                                                                   6,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,993


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            348,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,457




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977
                                                                                                                             2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,457
                                                                Forward
                                                                 Carry
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,537)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,570




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    22,240
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3,330)
                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                       -


                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      330
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (1,207)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                   Expenditure
                                                                      2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (1,537)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,570
                                                                                          2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,196




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      348,568




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,095,035
                                                                                                                                       18,029


                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,993
                                                                                                                                                                   6,808




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      330
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            347,361


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977
                                                                                                                             2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,457
                                                                Total 2020

                                                                Available
                                                                 Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  14,615




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                       -


                                                                                                                                                                                                      -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,069,465
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            14,615
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                Received
                                                                Funding
                                                                  2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (16,152)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        25,570
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,196
                                                                                          2,464




                                                                                                                                       18,029
                                                                                                                                                                   6,808
                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,993


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      348,568




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      330
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    25,570
                                                                                                                             2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,457
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,988




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            332,746




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,457
                                                                Balance c/f
                                                                 Funding
                                                                   2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                               Project                                                                                                                           Budget                                           Project
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2019 Carry
 Donor                                  Donor
                              Project Name                      code                    Project
                                                                                        KRA NameProg                                                                                              Type                                             code
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa

nformation
 ADVOCACY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (27,292)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3,377)
                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                          -




                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (27,292)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (3,377)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                   Reallocation




                           AUSTRALIA                         Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                                                                                       5541                                              PD                                                    OPT1                                                               XB                                                       911                                                                                 -                                                      911                          -
          Trade Advocacy Fund (TAF) UK AID                       1378        PI      KRA3                                                                                                                      XB                                                                                         2,464                                                                                                          -                                                2,464                                              -                                                                                 2,464                                             -           2,
                                                                      2020




 ome   and Expenditure - AUSTRALIA
  ADVOCACY                Trust Fund (Sum   byofProgrammes)
                                       Review   Governance & Financing                                                                                                                                                                                      5542                                              ST                                                    OPT1                                                               XB                                      (25,140)                                                                                             -                               (25,140)                                            -
 Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,464                                                                                                         -                                                 2,464                                              -                                                                                 2,464                                             -           2,
 2020                                  Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (16,152)
                                                                                          2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,993




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6,196




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        52,862
                                                                                                                                                                   6,808




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      348,568
                                                                                                                                       18,029




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2,792




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3,707

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            336,123


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28,830




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                             2,464




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8,988


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12,457




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    52,862
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,457




                                 AUSTRALIA                DFAT                                                                                                                                                                                              5654                                              ST                                                     ASF1                                                              XB                                             73,827                                                                                        -                                              73,827                               -
                                                                   2019 Carry




                Trade Negotiation Support                    1209       PI    OPT2       XB                                                                                                                                                                                                              18,029                                                                                                          -                                           18,029                                                  -                                                                        18,029                                                     -          18,
                                                                    Forward




                                                          Support
                                                             4470for PIFMS
                                                                        Members attendance
                                                                                         XBat                                                                                                                                                                  2020                                                                                                 Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - 58 -
                Health & Recreational Trust Fund                              OPT3                                                                                                                                                                               6,808                                                                                                                                                                                                    6,808                                              -                                                                                 6,808                                             -           6,
                               2019   Carry
                                  AUSTRALIA                2020
                                                          BBNJ             2020 Funding                                                                                                                                                                     5655     MS                                                                                          TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          XB                                                                                                      2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40,108                                                 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (15) Carry40,093
                   Prog
                SDG Localization Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Funding
                                 Project               Reallocation
                                                             5683       ST Balance
                                                                              OPT1 c/f XB                                                                                                                                                                        3,993                                                                                                  -                                                                                                    Expenditure -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          3,993                                                          Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,993                                                                                                               -           3,
                    code                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Received                                                                                               Available
 Total                          AUSTRALIA                    Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding                                                                                                                                                                  5656 28,830
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS                                                                                         TCAF1                                                   -             XB                                1,627,798
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     28,830                                                 (688,278)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -        28,830939,520                                                                                                              -      - 28,
                                                                   Budget




                               5,635,789        (842,645)            4,793,144                                                                                                                                                                                 7,848,909                                                                                                12,642,053        3,137,540                                                                                                                                                             9,504,513
                                                                    Type




nce                  PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




 O                              AUSTRALIA
                Regional EMIS Workshop                       Ocean Analyst &STManager
                                                                4707         XB   OPT1                                                                                                                                                                       5691 2,792
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS                                                                                             PER1   - XB        (311,966)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,792            -                                                                                                                                                           - 2,792(311,966)                                                                                -541,763 2,
e                    PS        6,151,757        (129,679)            6,022,078                                                                                                                                                                                 8,236,120                                                                                                14,258,198        4,615,734                                                                                                                                                             9,642,464
 O              PEDF M&E Framework UNESCO/SPBEA    4709    PD       OPT1     XB                                                                                                                                                                                   6,196                                                                                                     -       6,196            -                                                                                                                                                              6,196                                                                                 -                  6,
p and                           565,584       (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                                                                                                 3,795,880                                                                                             PER1 2,240,572          266,271                                                                                                                                                            1,974,301
                                                                        Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPT1
                                                                                                                                       OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                   OPT3
                                                                                                                                                                                                      OPT1


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      OPT1
                                                                                          KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OPT2



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PER1




                              AUSTRALIA         Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                                                                                                 5692     MS                                                                                                      XB        (212,654)                                                                                                                                                                -      (212,654)                                                                          373,054
CO Total             ST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8,988                                                                                                     -       8,988             -         8,988                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                  8,
M               Global Forums - Gender                          4954     PD     OPT2    XB                                                                                                                                                                       12,457                                                                                                     -     12,457              -        12,457                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                 12,
                     CS          (746,177)
                                 AUSTRALIA                   (602,466)
                                                             Ocean             (1,348,643)
                                                                   Management Officer                                                                                                                                                                       5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS                                                                                                (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PER1     XB              67,022 (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (249,151)            -      (249,151)                                                                                                                                                                                                                              435,236
                                                                        KRA




                                                                                                                                                                   MS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PD
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ST


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ST
                                                                                          PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                       PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI




 M Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         12,457                                                                                                     -     12,457              -        12,457                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -                 12,
 Secretariat          MS          5,358,837
                                   AUSTRALIA Total           (819,077)                                                                4,539,760                                                                                                               8,658,852                                                                                                  13,198,612       4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2,829,225           8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,021,979)     1,807,246                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5,916,838
D STATES OF     Joint Study -PICS-US Dev. Oriented
Movement              FX          (250,109)
                                   AUSTRALIAN                          - PI                                                           (250,109)                                                                                                                          -                                                                                                                       (250,109)                                                                                                                 --                                       (250,109)
                                                                   Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4709




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  3467
                                                                                          1378




                                                                                                                                                                   4470




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1395
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5683


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4707
                                                                                                                                       1209




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3468




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5682
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4954



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1307




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1396
                                                                    code




 CA             Trade & Invest FEDERAL POLICE                VAW1307
                                                                 Scoping Study                                                       KRA1     XB                                                                                                            2256348,568
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE                                                                                            OPT1                           - XB 348,568                                                                        6,392                                                                         - 348,568 6,392                                                                             -      -348,
D STATES OF           II               36,417                          -                                                                  36,417                                                                                                                (36,417)                                                                                                                                 -                                                                                                                 -                                                   -
                                 AUSTRALIAN
 CA
BUTIONS         Climate Finance &FEDERAL
                                 planning POLICE
                                          Officer                3467
                                                             Inter-Agency   PI Training
                                                                          Border  PER1                                                                                                                         XB                                           2547(16,152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      GE                                                                                            OPT1                                                 -             XB                    (16,152) 1,122 14,615                                                                                                  - (1,537) 1,122 (1,537)                                                             -
                                 16,752,098                 (4,514,759)                                                          12,237,339                                                                                                                       28,847,737                                                                                                               41,085,076                                                                            12,376,489                                             28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PEDF M&E Framework UNESCO/SPBEA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative




                                  AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CROP Grant Support Pac. Dev. Goal
                                                                                          Trade Advocacy Fund (TAF) UK AID




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Climate Finance & planning Officer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Joint Study -PICS-US Dev. Oriented




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Support to USAID Climate Change




                                  FEDERALChange
                                          POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                   Health & Recreational Trust Fund




 D STATES OF    Support to USAID Climate
 CA             Project OperationsTotal                          3468                              PI                                KRA2                                                                     XB                                                                                          3,707                                                                    (3,377)                                                                                 330 7,514                                         -                                                      -                                        330 7,514           330                    -
                                                                        Project Name




                                                                                                                                       Trade Negotiation Support




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Regional EMIS Workshop




D STATES OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                      SDG Localization Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Global Forums - Gender




ICA Total                          CHINA                     Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                                                                                           1034336,123PI                                                                                           KRA2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (3,377)                                                          XB                     332,746495,578 14,615                                                                                                 - 347,361495,578 (1,207)                                                            -348,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Project Operations




RSITY OF                        CHINA                        Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                                                                                    2105                                                             MS                                  TCAF1                                                                 XB                                     1,102,656                                                                                             -                                            1,102,656                1,274,804
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Trade & Invest




OUTH            CROP Grant Support Pac. Dev. Goal
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Phase 2 LDC




C               Taskforce                                         5682     PD    OPT1         XB                                                                                                                                                                                                              977                                                                                                        -                                                 977                                               -                                                                                               977                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Taskforce




 RSITY OF                                                    Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PER1.
OUTH                               CHINA                     Beijing                                                                                                                                                                                        2108                                                PI                                                   1                                                                 XB                                    (142,506)                                                                                              -                                          (142,506)                          643,242
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Financial Statements




 C Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      977                                                                                                        -                                                 977                                               -                                                                                               977                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNITED STATES OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT SERVICES
                                                                                       TRADE ADVOCACY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNITED STATES OF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           UNITED STATES OF



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        UNITED STATES OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PROJECT SERVICES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    PROJECT SERVICES




                                                             Support PT&I Network including Review
                                                                                       TRADE ADVOCACY




 FICE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNIVERSITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AMERICA Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          UNIVERSITY OF




 CT SERVICES                        CHINA
                Pacific Quality Infrastructure Initiative    of Structure
                                                                  1395     PI      KRA2       XB                                                                                                                                                            2112 52,862
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MS                                                                                             TCAF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (27,292) XB                                                                                    25,570 14,388                                           -                                                      - 25,570 14,388 25,570                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNESCO Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UN OFFICE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNIFEM Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UN OFFICE OF

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    UN OFFICE OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PACIFIC Total
                                                                        Donor




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 UNDP Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE SOUTH
                                                                                       FUND Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THE SOUTH




 FICE OF        Pacific Quality Infrastructure
                                    CHINA      Initiative- Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                                                                                           2141                                                              PI                                    KRA2                                                               XB                                          22,973                                                                                           -         22,973              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AMERICA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AMERICA



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        AMERICA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              UNESCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       UNESCO


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         UNIFEM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PACIFIC




 CT SERVICES    Phase 2 LDC                                    1396       PI Pathway-XB
                                                                                KRA2      XB                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                          -                                                       -      1,069,465                                                                                   1,069,465        (3,330)     1,072,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TOTAL




                                                           Pacific Humanitarian         (PHP-
                                                                                                                                       UNDP
                                                                                                                                                                   UNDP
                                                                                                                                                                                                      UNDP
                                                                                       FUND




 FICE OF                            CHINA                  C)-PRC                                                                                                                                                                                           2224                                                              PD                                    KRA2                                                               XB                                               -                                                                                           -              -        366,797
 CT SERVICES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         52,862                                                      (27,292)                                                                                        25,570                1,069,465                                                                                1,095,035         22,240    1,072,
                                   CHINA                     China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                                                                                    3681                                              PD                                                    KRA2                                                               XB                                             (1,281)                                                                                       -         (1,281)        1,281
                                   CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,491,808                                                                                             -                                            1,491,808               2,286,124

cial Statements                  Financial Statements                                                                           - 40 -                                                                                                                      - 58 -                                                                                                                                                                                                        - 44 -                              31 December 2020                                                                                                    31 December 2020


               110             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                           (544,156)
                                                                                                                    607,863




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (68,310)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (9,714)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (38,085)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (23,573)
                                                                                                                                   38,942
                                                                                                                                                                 (3,760)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (38,303)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      641
                                                                                                                                                                                  2,490
                                                                                    1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37,885
                                                                                                            1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,903




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,779
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,562
                                                             Forward
                                                              Carry
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16,090

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             106
                                                                                                                                                                                                           320,695

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         143,912




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             23,573
                                                                                                                    36,006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   540,382




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                            -
                                                                Expenditure
                                                                   2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                           (223,461)
                                                                                                                    643,869




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (37,979)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         75,602

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6,376




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      641
                                                                                                                                   38,942
                                                                                                                                                                 (3,760)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                    1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                  2,490




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   502,079



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,903

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,562




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,779


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37,885
                                                                                                            1,002
                                                             Total 2020

                                                             Available
                                                              Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               14,059
                                                                                                                    136,843

                                                                                                                                   56,779




                                                                                                                                                                                                           241,304

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         91,674




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             32,461

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             13,823




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   586,943
                                                                                                                                                                                  -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                             Received
                                                             Funding
                                                               2020




                                                                                                                                   (17,837)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           (464,765)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (16,072)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (7,683)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (70,440)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (13,823)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      641
                                                                                                                    507,026



                                                                                                                                                                 (3,760)
                                                                                                                                                                                  2,490
                                                                                    1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,903
                                                                                                            1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,562




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,779


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (84,864)
                                                             Balance c/f
                                                              Funding
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2020          2020         Total 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2020           2020    20
 nformation                                  Project                                                           Budget Project
                                                                                                                         2019 Carry                                                                                                       2020 Budget Funding
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2019 Carry Funding2020     FundsFunding        Funding Car
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2020
  Donor               Project Name
                              Donor            code Project
  Income
 MEN'S
            and Expenditure    - Trust Fund  (Sum    byKRA   NameProg
                                                          Donors)                                               Type code Forward
                                                                                                                               KRA                                                                                                     Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Prog      Type Balance c/f
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Forward  Received
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ReallocationAvailable
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Balance c/fExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Received Forw
                        COMMONWEALTH




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                                                                                  -

                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                    -



                                                                                                                                                                 -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
mber   2020
                                                                Reallocation




 RONMENT  &             SECRETARIAT      Hub & Spoke Project - ComSec                                                               1420        PI    TCAF1          XB            (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -          (4,240)                                                                                   16,070
                                                                   2020




 ELOPMENT                        2019 Carry                 2020                2020 Funding                                        2020 Funding        Total 2020 funds                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                2020 Carry
Donor                         COMMONWEALTH                                                                                                                                     2020 Expenditure
 ANIZATION                        Forward
              WEDO Pacific Workshop                    Reallocation
                                                              3471        PD Balance
                                                                                   OPT2 c/f XB                                        Received1,002        Available
                                                                                                                                                                   -           1,002                -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Forward
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,002                                                                                         -
                              SECRETARIAT
MEN'S                         Total 2,829,225               (1,021,979)                1,807,246                                           5,916,838            7,724,084               2,854,172
                                                                                                                                                                                   (4,240)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -       4,869,912
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (4,240)                                                                                   16,070
  L POLICE &
 IRONMENT                                  7,514                        -                   7,514                                                   -                 7,514                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 7,514
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (7,683)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (16,072)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (70,440)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      641
                                                                                                                                                                 (3,760)



                                                                                                                                                                                                           (464,765)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (13,823)
                                                                                                                                   (17,837)


                                                                                                                                                                                  2,490
                                                                                    1,002




                                                                                                                    507,026




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3,903

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              24,562




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8,779
                                                                                                            1,002




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (84,864)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           37,885
                                                                2019 Carry




                              CONSERVATION            Conservation Interntional    Sup.1,491,808
                                                                                        for Pac
                                                                 Forward




 ELOPMENT                            1,491,808                          -                                                                  2,286,124            3,777,932               1,953,081                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,824,851
CRETARIAT
  ANIZATION                   INTERNATIONAL
                                         (4,240)      Ocean   Comm.     -                 (4,240)                                   5652        ST
                                                                                                                                              16,070  TCAF1         XB
                                                                                                                                                                    11,830        (96,622)  11,830                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -         (96,622)-                                                                                       -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - 59 -
 RNATIONAL
 l                            CONSERVATION
                                       (96,622)                         -                (96,622)                                             1,002 -            (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                   -           1,002              - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1,002                                                                                         -
                              INTERNATIONAL
                                         (1,247)                        -                 (1,247)                                                   -              (1,247)                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (1,247)
RLD BANK      Logistics RC    Total            -              7610      - PI       KRA2         XB
                                                                                                 -                                         507,026
                                                                                                                                             183,542               -
                                                                                                                                                                  183,542   507,026
                                                                                                                                                                                 (96,622)    136,843
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    - 643,869 (96,622)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 183,542                                                            36,006                       - 60
                                                                Budget
                                                                 Type




                                     4,519,157              (1,190,338)                3,328,819                                           7,712,102           11,040,921               2,455,734                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              8,585,187
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB
                                                                                                                                                                                  XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                                                                                                   XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB
                                                                                                                    XB



                                                                                                                                                                 XB
                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             XB

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      XB
                                                      SOI Regional Capacity Development
RLD BANK      Expertise Triggered on TOR314,040               7611      - PI       KRA2 314,040 XB                                           250,000              564,040                  200,408                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               363,632
                              CSIRO                   Workshop                                                                      5653 (17,837)
                                                                                                                                               MS     TCAF1        -XB      (17,837)
                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,247)     56,779                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -    38,942(1,247)                                                                                   -    -    3
                                              21                        -                      21                                                   -                    21                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    21
RLD
D BANK        Risk Financing CSIRO Total161,220               7612      - ST       OPT2 161,220 XB                                          (3,760) -              -
                                                                                                                                                                  161,220    (3,760)       122,295  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (3,760)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  38,925                                                                                    -         (3
                                                                     Prog




                                                                                                                                                                 OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                  OPT2
                                                                                    OPT2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OPT2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA3
                                                                                                                                   KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA2
                                                                                                                    KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KRA1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              KRA3




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KRA3
                                                                                                                                                                                   (1,247)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -          (1,247)                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                           KRA2




 NOMICS CONSULTING                       16,270                         -                  16,270                                                   -               16,270                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               16,270
RLD BANK      Others (Including
                              DTMTR)
                                 Global 9,829                 7613
                                                      DFAT E-commerce     ST       OPT2         XB                                            2,490                -           2,490                -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         2,490                                                                                  -
ERATION OF RED CROSS                                                    - AFT Fund          9,829                                   1458        PI - KRA2            XB
                                                                                                                                                                      9,829              -        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -            9,829-                                                                         183,542
                              DT Global256,256              (2,117,372)              (1,861,116)                                           2,261,396              400,280                   31,767                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               368,513
                                                                     KRA




                                         Total
                                                                                    PD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     183,542
                                                                                                                                                                                  ST

                                                                                                                                                                                                           ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             ST
                                                                                                                                                                 ST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI
                                                                                                                                   PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI
                                                                                                                    PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PI

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PI


RLD BANK
 RIBUTION     PREP Regional Coordinator 117,630               7614
                                                              (117,692) ST        KRA2          XB
                                                                                             (62)                                        (464,765) -               - (62) (464,765)          241,304
                                                                                                                                                                                              (62)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (223,461)       -                                                      320,695      (544
                                     2,535,011                          -              2,535,011                                           3,192,532            5,727,543               2,059,312                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3,668,231
                                                                Project




                                         19,467                         -
                                                      Public Finance Management      & 19,467                                                403,816              423,283                  321,341                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               101,942
                                                                                                                                                                                  7613




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7616
                                                                                                                                                                                                           7614




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7617




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1316
                                                                                                                                   7611




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         7615




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             7618
                                                                                    3471




                                                                                                                    7610



                                                                                                                                                                 7612




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1312

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1313




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1321
                                                                 code




RLD BANK      Monitoring & Communications Officer             7615         PI      KRA2         XB                                        (16,072)                 -        (16,072)           91,674                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       75,602                                                              143,912                              (68
                              EUROPEAN  517,349
                                          UNION       Governance -                       517,349                                    1002      88,350
                                                                                                                                                PI    KRA2        605,699
                                                                                                                                                                     XB           732,869 9,331                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        -         596,368
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 732,869                                                                                         -
                                               -                        -                        -                                            75,320                75,320                        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               75,320
RLD BANK      PREP Finance & Administrative   Officer
                                           3,968              7616      - PI       KRA2 3,968   XB                                          (7,683) -              - 3,968 (7,683)             14,059
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6,3763,968                                                            16,090                            (9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Monitoring & Communications Officer

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PREP Finance & Administrative Officer




                                        188,825                         -                188,825                                             126,518              315,343                         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              315,343
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PIFS-WTO Regional Workshop: MC11




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10th WTO Ministerial Conference -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Risk Finance & Insurance Specialist




                              EUROPEAN UNION
                                           5,442      4: Bank Charges
                                                                   (285) & Exch rate differences
                                                                                            5,157                                  1002H        PI - OPT2            XB
                                                                                                                                                                      5,157           (38)        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -              (38)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    5,157                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      WTO-RPI.W/Shop S & P Measures




RLD BANK      PREP Resilience & Dev Officer                   7617        ST       OPT2         XB                                        (70,440)                 -        (70,440)           32,461                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     (37,979)                                                                            106                    (38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WTO PIFS RPI. W/Shop on Trade




                                     3,678,143                       (7)               3,678,136                                           4,399,159            8,077,295               1,728,861                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6,348,434
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PREP Resilience & Dev Officer
                                                                     Project Name




UND                                        2,464                        - Administrator 2,464                                                   PI - PER1             2,464                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2,464
                                                                                                                                   Expertise Triggered on TOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                           PREP Regional Coordinator




                              EUROPEAN UNION          PFM Programme                                                                 1003                             XB            (3,277)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             -          (3,277)                                                                                        -
                                                                                    WEDO Pacific Workshop




RLD BANK      Risk Finance & Insurance Specialist
                                         28,830               7618      - PI       KRA2 28,830  XB                                        (13,823) -               -28,830 (13,823)            13,823
                                                                                                                                                                                                  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  28,830                                                            23,573                           (23
                                                                                                                                                                                  Others (Including MTR)




RLD BANK                                   8,988                        -                   8,988                                                   -                 8,988                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 8,988
 l                                       12,457                         -                  12,457                                         (84,864) -               -12,457 (84,864)               -
                                                                                                                                                                                             586,943                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       502,07912,457                                                        540,382                              (38
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Nairobi (MC10)




MERICA                        EUROPEAN    UNION
                                        336,123       PFM Research     Officer
                                                                 (3,377)                 332,746                                    1008        PI
                                                                                                                                              14,615   PER1          XB
                                                                                                                                                                  347,361                - (1,207)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     -         348,568-                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                                                                 Risk Financing
                                                                                                                    Logistics RC




 OUTH PACIFIC                                977                        -                     977                                                   -                   977                       -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   977
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Facilitation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Outcomes




RLD TRADE
T SERVICES    PIFS-WTO Regional Workshop:     MC11
                                         52,862                 (27,292)                   25,570                                          1,069,465            1,095,035                   22,240                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,072,795
 ANISATION
ENT           Outcomes
     & DEVELOPMENT                         1,002      PRP  Coordinator(50%)/Project
                                                              1312      - PI       KRA1 1,002   XB                                            3,903 -              - 1,002     3,903              - -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         3,9031,002                                                                                    -
                              EUROPEAN UNION          Coordinator-1.1.1                                                             3475        PI     PER1         XB            144,858                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -         144,858                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Financial Statements




RLD TRADE     WTO PIFS RPI. W/Shop on Trade
 ANISATION    Facilitation             (84,864)       Private1313       - Change-Finance
                                                               Sector Cl.  PI      KRA3 (84,864)XB                                              586,943
                                                                                                                                               24,562                                                                                          502,079
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                -                                                                                                                 24,562       540,382 -                                                                                                                                 (38,303)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      24,562                                                                          2
                                                                     ENVIRONMENT &
                                                                     ENVIRONMENT &




NISATION                      EUROPEAN37,885
                                          UNION       Officer-1.1.2 -                      37,885                                       3476       PI -                                                                                PER1      37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 XB                                                                                                                   214,637        -                                                                                                 -                                   37,885
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          214,637                                                                -
                                                                     ORGANIZATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ORGANISATION
                                                                     ORGANIZATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ORGANISATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORGANISATION

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ORGANISATION



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ORGANISATION
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WORLD TRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              WORLD TRADE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WORLD TRADE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 WORLD TRADE



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WORLD TRADE




RLD TRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORLD BANK




ROM  PROPERTY, PLANT &                         -                        -                        -                                              264,945                                                                                        264,945                                                                                                                         264,945                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                    WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                   WORLD BANK
                                                                                                                                                                 WORLD BANK
                                                                                                                                                                                  WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                                                                                           WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORLD BANK

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WORLD BANK
                                                                           Donor




 ANISATION    WTO-RPI.W/Shop  EUROPEAN    UNION
                                S & P Measures        Finance1316
                                                                Officer - 1.1.3
                                                                           PI      KRA3         XB                                      3477       PI
                                                                                                                                                   641                                                                                 PER1     -XB                                                                                                                    49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     641               -                                                                                               -                                   49,929
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         641                                                                -    -
                                                                     WOMEN'S
                                                                     WOMEN'S




                                         36,417                 (36,417)                         -                                                     -                                                                                              -                                                                                                                              -                                                                                                                                           -
                              EUROPEAN UNION          Travel & Subsistence - 1.2                                                        3480       PI                                                                                  OPT2      XB                                                                                                                    (4,763)                                                                                                         -                                   (4,763)                                                               -
                                                                     Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Total




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Total




 GN EXCHANGE                          (250,109)                         -              (250,109)                                                       -                                                                                     (250,109)                                                                                                                       (197,937)                                                                                                                                   (52,172)
RLD TRADE     10th WTO Ministerial Conference -
ONS FROM DONORS                     16,752,098        Office(4,514,759)               12,237,339                                        3481 28,847,735                                                                                KRA2 41,085,074                                                                                                                     12,376,493                                                                                                                                  28,708,581
 ANISATION    Nairobi (MC10) EUROPEAN UNION                  Costs
                                                              1321 - 1.3 PI        KRA3         XB                                                 PI
                                                                                                                                                 8,779                                                                                          -XB                                                                                                                   131,617
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8,779               -                                                                                               -                                  131,617
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,779                                                                -    -
RLD TRADE                                             Est RPI Coordn in CC-DR_PRP FRDP-Act
 ANISATION                    EUROPEAN UNION          1.1                                                                               3482                                         PI                                                KRA2                                                                             XB                                           168,270                                                                                                           -                                  168,270                                                                -
 l                                                                                                                                                                                37,885                                                                                                                               -                                         37,885                                                                                              -                                                37,885                                                                -         3

 ncial Statements                Financial Statements                                      - 41 -                                                               - 59 -                                                                                                                                                                                        - 45 -                                          31 December 2020                                                                                                                  31 December 2020


                                                                                                                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              111
-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (30,488)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         19,213




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (24,489)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     20,941
                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (75,686)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (52,172)
                                                                                                    -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (15,213)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              13,829
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,685)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28,708,581
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            45,406
                                                          Forward
                                                           Carry
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             31 December 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (17,918)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (36,764)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (23,958)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (30,265)
                                                                                                                                   264,945




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (54,680)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (65,118)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                    264,945




                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (16,211)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (19,937)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (939)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,376,493
                                                             Expenditure
                                                                2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (48,406)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (9,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,685)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (17,551)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2,382)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (16,152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (140,804)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (9,324)
                                                                                                                                   264,945




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (531)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (250,109)
                                                                                                    264,945




                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        41,085,074
                                                          Total 2020

                                                          Available
                                                           Funds




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                    264,945



                                                                                                                                   264,945

                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        28,847,735
                                                          Received
                                                          Funding
                                                            2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (48,406)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (9,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (17,551)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,685)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2,382)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (16,152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (140,804)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (9,324)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (531)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                          -

                                                                                                                                                                            -
                                                                                                    -



                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        12,237,339
                                                          Balance c/f
                                                           Funding
                                                             2020




                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2020           2020        Total 20202020          2020 2020
                                                         Project                                                                             Budget                             Project
                                                                                                                                                                                 2019 Carry     2020      Budget
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Funding        Funding 2020 FundsFunding 2020 Funding Carry
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2019 Carry
 Donor                                  Donor
                              Project Name                code                   Project
                                                                                 KRA NameProg                                                 Type                               code
                                                                                                                                                                                  ForwardKRA Reallocation
                                                                                                                                                                                                Prog       Type       ForwardReceived
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balance c/f           Reallocation    BalanceExpenditure
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Available     c/f    ReceivedForwa
 ITS DERIVED
nformation

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                          (36,417)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -
                                                                                                                                                                            (36,417)



                                                                                                                                                                                                     -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -
                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (4,514,759)
                                                                                                    -
                                                             Reallocation




                                  AUSTRALIA            Pacific Plan Review (XB)                                                                                                    5541                                PD                                  OPT1                                XB                                                                                        911                                                                                     -                                         911                                        -
 PROPERTY,
                                                                2020




  &          Recoveries & Sundries - Benefit from
ome
MENT and Expenditure
             PPE              - AUSTRALIA
                                 Trust Fund (Sum         byofProgrammes)
                                                    Review
                                                        9995  Governance
                                                                    CS    & Financing XB
                                                                          CS00                                                                                                     5542                                ST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -                                   OPT1                           -    XB                                                                   -(25,140) 264,945                                                                                            - 264,945(25,140) 264,945                                                            -
 2020
 ITS DERIVED                                        Enhancing Pacific Ocean Governance -
 PROPERTY,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (17,551)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (9,274)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (5,685)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (48,406)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (2,382)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (16,152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (9,324)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (140,804)
                                                                                                                                                          36,417

                                                                                                                                                                            36,417




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (531)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (250,109)
                                                                                                    -



                                                                                                                                   -




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        16,752,098
                                AUSTRALIA           DFAT                                                                                                                           5654                                ST                                  ASF1                                XB                                                                       73,827                                                                                                   -                                     73,827                                         -
                                                             2019 Carry
                                                              Forward




  &
 MENT Total                                         Support for PIF Members attendance at                                                                                             2020 -                                                                  Total
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  - 2020                                                                                            -          264,945                                                                                               264,945                                          264,945




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             - 60 -
                             2019   Carry
                                AUSTRALIA            2020
                                                    BBNJ               2020 Funding                                                                                                5655   MS                                                               TCAF1 Funds
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    XB                                                                                                    2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40,108                                                                       2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (15) Carry40,093
                 Prog
             PALM 5 - Pacific Environment                                                                                                                                           Funding
                              Forward            Reallocation           Balance c/f                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Expenditure                                                                         Forward
EST INCOME       code
             Community                                  5630        II     ASF        XB                                                                                               Received
                                                                                                                                                                                          36,417                                                              Available
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (36,417)                                                                                                -                                                                    -                                                                            -                                      -
                                AUSTRALIA           Support to OPOC -DFAT Funding                                                                                                  5656                                MS                                  TCAF1     XB                                                                                            1,627,798                                                            (688,278)                                                                      939,520                                        -
                                                             Budget




EST INCOME
                               5,635,789            (842,645)               4,793,144                                                                                                7,848,909                                                                 12,642,053                                                                                             3,137,540 -                                                                                            9,504,513
                                                              Type




nce               PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                     XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              XB


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XB
                                                                                                    XB




                                                                                                                                                          XB




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB




                                AUSTRALIA           Ocean Analyst & Manager                                                                                                        5691 36,417
                                                                                                                                                                                             MS                                                             (36,417) XB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PER1                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (311,966)                                                                                                  -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (311,966)                                                                 -541,763
 e                    PS          6,151,757            (129,679)            6,022,078                                                                                                8,236,120                                                                 14,258,198                                                                                             4,615,734                                                                                              9,642,464
FFECT OF
pGNand                              565,584          (2,120,892)          (1,555,308)                                                                                                3,795,880                                                             PER1 2,240,572                                                                                               266,271                                                                                              1,974,301
                                                                  Prog




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         KRA3
                                                                                                                                                                                                     KRA2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               KRA1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CS00




                                  AUSTRALIA            Ocean Communications Officer                                                                                                5692      MS                                                                      XB                                                                                            (212,654)                                                                                                  -    (212,654)                                                  373,054
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              ASF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ASF




                 Public Finance Management &
                                                                                                                                                          ASF
                                                                                                    CS00




                      ST
  NGE            Governance                                1002                   PI                                      KRA2                       XB                                        (9,324)                                                                                    -                                              (9,324)                                                                                         -                                            (9,324)                                         (30,265)        20,
FFECT OF             CS          (746,177)
                                  AUSTRALIA            (602,466)
                                                       Ocean             (1,348,643)
                                                             Management Officer                                                                                                    5693 344,393
                                                                                                                                                                                           MS                                                                 (1,004,250)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PER1     XB              67,022 (1,071,272)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (249,151)             -       (249,151)         435,236
                                                                  KRA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              CS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         CS


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           CS
                                                                                                    CS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               CS




 GN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PI




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PI
                                                                                                                                                                                                     PI
                                                                                                                                                          II




 Secretariat
  NGE                MS          5,358,837
                 PACRES RecoveriesAUSTRALIA
                                   & SundriesTotal     (819,077)
                                                          3490       PI                                                    4,539,760
                                                                                                                          KRA2     XB                                                8,658,852
                                                                                                                                                                                        (9,274)                                                               13,198,612
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  -     (9,274) 4,289,922
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,829,225      -    8,908,690
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (1,021,979)       1,807,246 (54,680)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (9,274)              5,916,838 45,
FFECT OF
Movement             FX          (250,109)
                                  AUSTRALIAN                     -                                                         (250,109)                                                            -                                                               (250,109)                 -       (250,109)
                                                             Project




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              6273A


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       7707A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3504
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            3490


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              3503




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         6005


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           6105
                                                                                                                                                                                                     1002
                                                                                                    9995




                                                                                                                                                          5630




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               5709
                                                              code




 GN                               FEDERAL POLICE       VAW Scoping Study                                                                                                           2256      GE                                                            OPT1     XB           6,392             -           6,392               -
  NGE                 II
                 RAO Recoveries      36,417
                                & Sundries                3503 - CS                                                       CS00 36,417
                                                                                                                                   XB                                                  (36,417)
                                                                                                                                                                                      (48,406)                                                                    -     -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       (48,406)           --         (48,406) -      (17,918)       (30,4
                                  AUSTRALIAN
FFECT OF
BUTIONS                           FEDERAL POLICE
                                16,752,098
                                                       Inter-Agency Border Training
                                                     (4,514,759)                                                          12,237,339
                                                                                                                                                                                   2547
                                                                                                                                                                                       28,847,737
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GE                                  OPT1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  41,085,076
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               XB                                                                        1,122
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    12,376,489                                                                            28,708,587
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 -                                      1,122                                         -
 GN                               AUSTRALIAN
                                                                                   Recoveries & Sundries - Benefit from




  NGE            TCF EDF 10 Recoveries & Sundries          3504                   CS                                       ASF                       XB                                        (5,685)                                                                                    -                                              (5,685)                                                                                         -                                            (5,685)                                                                -            (5,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Recoveries and Sundries - TECBUF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              TCF EDF 10 Recoveries & Sundries




                                  FEDERAL  POLICE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 EU Non State Actor Recoveries &




FFECT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                         Public Finance Management &



                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PACRES Recoveries & Sundries




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Recoveries & Sundries - EVAW




                                  Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  7,514                                                                                                   -                                      7,514                                         -
                                                                                                                                             PALM 5 - Pacific Environment




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PITAP Recoveries & Sundries




 GN              EU Non State Actor Recoveries &
                                                                  Project Name




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IHRT Sundries & Recoveries
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              RAO Recoveries & Sundries




  NGE            Sundries                                  5709         CS       KRA1       XB                                                                                       (140,804)                                                                                            -                                      (140,804)                                                                                               -                                       (140,804)        (65,118)                                                            (75,6
FFECT OF                          CHINA                Pacific Resilience Facility-China XB                                                                                        1034      PI                                                            KRA2                                 XB                                        495,578                                                                                                                                -        495,578                                                                     -
 GN                               CHINA                Trade Office - Beijing - XB                                                                                                 2105     MS                                                             TCAF1                                XB                                      1,102,656                                                                                                                                -         1,102,656       1,274,804
  NGE            PITAP Recoveries & Sundries               6005        CS        KRA3                                                                XB                               (17,551)                                                                                            -                                       (17,551)                                                                                               -                                           (17,551)        (36,764)        19,
                                                                                                                                                                                         Governance
                                                                                                                                             Community




FFECT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (939)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Sundries




 GN                                                    Deputy Trade Commissioner - PT&I                                                                                                                                                                    PER1.
  NGE                             CHINA
                 IHRT Sundries & Recoveries            Beijing
                                                            6105     CS     ASF         XB                                                                                         2108(16,152)PI                                                            1                            - XB                                          (142,506)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (16,152)                                                                                               -                                       - (16,152)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         (142,506)                                                              643,242(15,2
                                                                                   PPE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Financial Statements




FFECT OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (16,211)
 GN
                                                                  BENEFITS DERIVED




                                                                                                                                                          INTEREST INCOME
                                                                  BENEFITS DERIVED




                                                       Support PT&I Network including Review
                                                                                                                                                          INTEREST INCOME
                                                                  EQUIPMENT Total
                                                                  FROM PROPERTY,
                                                                  FROM PROPERTY,




                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE Total




  NGE            Recoveries and Sundries
                                  CHINA - TECBUF           6273A
                                                       of Structure  PI      ASF        XB                                                                                         2112 (2,382)
                                                                                                                                                                                             MS                                                            TCAF                           - XB                                           (2,382) 14,388                                                                                  -                                       - (2,382) 14,388                                                                     - 13,
                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF
                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF


                                                                                                                                                                                       NET EFFECT OF
                                                                       Donor




FFECT OF
                                                                  EQUIPMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Grand Total
                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE


                                                                                                                                                                                       EXCHANGE




 GN                               CHINA                Trade Development (XB)                                                                                                      2141     PI                                                             KRA2                                 XB                                                                      22,973                                                                                                   -                                     22,973                    -
                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN
                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN


                                                                                                                                                                                       FOREIGN
                                                                  PLANT &
                                                                  PLANT &




  NGE            Recoveries & Sundries - EVAW          Pacific
                                                          7707AHumanitarian
                                                                      PI Pathway-XB
                                                                            KRA1    (PHP-
                                                                                      XB                                                                                                (531)                                                                                             -                                                        (531)                                                                                 -                                                     (531)                               (23,958)       (24,4
                                                                                                                                                          Total




FFECT OF                          CHINA                C)-PRC                                                                                                                      2224    PD                                                              KRA2                                XB                                                                                                      -                                                                         -                                               -         366,797
 GN
ANGE Total                        CHINA                China Scholarship Publicity                                                                                                   (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                   3681      PD                                                      KRA2 -                                    XB (250,109) (1,281)      -                                                                                                                                                    (250,109)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -        (1,281) (19,937) 1,281(52,1
                                                                                                                                                                                    16,752,098                                                     (4,514,759)                                   12,237,339     28,847,735                                                                                                                                                   41,085,074     12,376,493      28,708,
 Total                            CHINA Total                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1,491,808                                                                                                                                                             -     1,491,808        2,286,124

cial Statements                 Financial Statements                                                                      - 40 -                                                   - 60 -                                                                                                                                                             - 44 -                                           31 December 2020                                                                                               31 December 2020


               112             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   113
-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

      2020 PACIFIC
      ISLANDS FORUM
      FOREIGN
      MINISTERS
      MEETING
      14 October 2020
      Virtual Meeting




114   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

The 2020 Pacific Islands Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting was
convened virtually on 14 October 2020.
The meeting was chaired by the Honourable Simon Kofe, Minister for Justice, Communications and
Foreign Affairs of Tuvalu, and attended by His Excellency Taneti Maamau, Beretitenti of Kiribati, The
Honourable Mr Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands, The Honourable Dalton Tagelagi, Premier
of Niue, and Ministers from Australia, the Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Nauru, New Caledonia,
Palau, Papua New Guinea, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Solomon Islands. French
Polynesia, New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga and Vanuatu were represented by Senior Officials. Tokelau
attended as an Associate Member.
The meeting was also attended by Council of Regional Organisations in the Pacific (CROP) agencies: the
Pacific Aviation Safety Office, the Pacific Community, the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency, the
Pacific Regional Environment Programme, and the University of the South Pacific.


OFFICIAL OPENING
The Chair thanked Forum Foreign Ministers for availing themselves to convene virtually to discuss key
regional priorities and issues of mutual concern to the Blue Pacific. Acknowledging the multidimensional
effects of COVID-19, the Chair recognised that the progress of key regional priorities had been impacted.
The Chair reaffirmed the need for Members to remain steadfast in their efforts to address regional
priorities such as climate change and ocean governance.
The Secretary General welcomed Forum Foreign Ministers and acknowledged the unprecedented times
in which they met. The Secretary General commended Members for their swift national, regional and
international responses to the pandemic, and in particular, their commitments to the development of
the Pacific Humanitarian Pathway for COVID-19 (PHP-C). Acknowledging the unique platform on which
they met, the Secretary General encouraged Ministers to seize the opportunity to deliberate and agree
on important decisions that would chart the way forward for the region, as manifested under Members’
efforts to develop a 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent.
The Chair and Secretary General stressed the importance of regional solidarity and unity to achieving
tangible changes for all citizens of the Blue Pacific, and wished Ministers well in their deliberations.


COVID-19
Ministers considered an update on national and regional initiatives established to address the impacts
of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the PHP-C. Recognising the severe health, social and economic
impacts of COVID-19 on the Blue Pacific, Ministers discussed further policy considerations for
strengthening collective response efforts to COVID-19.


Ministers:
(i) reaffirmed the importance of regional solidarity, cooperation and multilateralism to overcome the
multifaceted impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic facing Forum Island Countries;
(ii) commended Members’ response efforts to COVID-19, and emphasised the need to address the
disproportionate impacts of the COVID-19 crisis on vulnerable groups, including persons with disabilities,
the elderly and women and girls;
(iii) welcomed the update on the region’s response through ministerial discussions, and the PHP-C
platform;
(iv) commended the operationalisation of the PHP-C and encouraged its strengthened utilisation,
including through improved coordination, information sharing and collaboration with development
                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report    115
-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

      partners, and agreed that the Regional Taskforce on the PHP-C explore these synergies further;
      (v) discussed Members’ efforts to facilitate the repatriation of their nationals, including consideration of
      repatriation support through the PHP-C to include Forum nationals both within and outside the region,
      and welcomed further discussions on the establishment of a PHP-C Regional Quarantine Facility;
      (vi) noted the discussions on efforts to establish travel bubbles in the region to address COVID-19 related
      issues, including connectivity and food security, and recommended that travel bubbles be further
      explored by the COVID-19 Economic Recovery Taskforce;
      (vii) supported the need for cooperative multilateral approaches to the equitable access to safe, effective,
      trusted and certified COVID-19 tests, treatments and vaccines, and ensuring their accountable and
      transparent procurement and distribution
      (viii) considered the issue of accessibility and affordability of health care and services within the region;
      and
      (ix) discussed and recommended the draft Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Statement on COVID-19 for
      consideration by Leaders, with the view to be presented at the Special Session of the UN General
      Assembly on COVID-19 in December 2020.


      REPORT OF THE 2050 STRATEGY FOR A BLUE PACIFIC CONTINENT SUB-
      COMMITTEE
      Ministers reaffirmed the 2019 Leaders decision on the importance of securing the future of the Blue
      Pacific and their endorsement of the development of a carefully considered strategy for regionalism
      through the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent.


      Ministers:
      (i) noted updates on the national consultations undertaken to date, and reaffirmed their commitment to
      the development of a 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent;
      (ii) commended the leadership of the co-chairs of the Sub-Committee, Fiji and Vanuatu, and noted the
      update on progress to develop the 2050 Strategy; and
      (iii) endorsed the revised approach and work programme for the 2050 Strategy, as conveyed by the 2020
      Pre-Forum session of the Forum Officials’ Committee (FOC).


      OCEANS
      Ministers acknowledged the value in having a coordinated regional advocacy and engagement approach
      to international fora relating to Oceans in 2020 and 2021, and welcomed the work of the FOC Sub-
      Committee on International Engagement and Advocacy and the CROP Taskforce on Oceans to achieve
      this.


      Ministers:
      (i) acknowledged the work undertaken by the CROP Taskforce on Oceans and the FOC Sub-Committee
      on International Engagement and Advocacy for Oceans-related engagements in international fora,
      including the development of the draft 2020 Blue Pacific Ocean Declaration;
      (ii) supported the development of a Forum Leaders Statement on Oceans, to advocate the region’s
      priorities at the Our Oceans Conference in Palau in December 2020;
      (iii) welcomed the development of a Forum Leaders 2020 Blue Pacific Ocean Declaration to support the

116   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

region’s engagement and advocacy in ocean governance related international fora in 2021; and
(iv) noted Samoa’s virtual hosting of the 2020 Pacific Ocean Pacific Climate Change Conference, 27 – 30
October 2020.


MARITIME BOUNDARIES
Ministers welcomed and discussed progress updates on implementing Leaders’ decisions and
commitments relating to maritime boundaries and sea-level rise, re-emphasising the ongoing threat
posed by sea-level rise to securing the Blue Pacific Continent.


Ministers:
(i) commended the progress update regarding implementing Forum Leaders’ 2019 decisions on sea-
level rise and maritime boundaries, through Members’ efforts to conclude negotiations on outstanding
maritime zones and claims, to monitor extended continental shelf submissions, and to collectively
contribute to relevant international law processes;
(ii) commended the technical support by the Pacific Maritime Boundaries Consortium of Partners;
(iii) commended the 2020 Regional Conference on Securing the Limits of the Blue Pacific: Legal Options
and Institutional Responses to the Impact of Sea-level Rise on Maritime Zones, in the Context of
International Law (9 – 11 and 17 September 2020), and supported its key outcomes and recommendations
as conveyed by the 2020 Pre-Forum session of the FOC, in particular the development of a regional
normative declaration for Leaders’ consideration in 2021; and
(iv) endorsed, in principle, the establishment of a FOC Specialist Sub-Committee on Sea-Level Rise in
Relation to International Law, and agreed for FOC to consider and endorse its Terms of Reference out-of-
session, ahead of the 2020 Budget Session of the FOC.


CLIMATE CHANGE
Ministers discussed the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on international commitments to combat
climate change and reaffirmed that this should not disrupt ambitious climate action.


Ministers:
(i) called on the international community to meet or exceed their obligations and timelines as set out
under the Paris Agreement and deliver more ambitious climate action, including by communicating
or updating ambitious NDCs in accordance with the five-year cycle. COVID-19 response and recovery
measures should advance the goals of the Paris Agreement and stimulate low-emissions technologies
and climate resilient development;
(ii) welcomed the update from the Republic of the Marshall Islands on the Midnight Survival Deadline
for the Climate initiative of the Climate Vulnerable Forum, and the related call for global participation in
developing urgent new efforts to combat climate change before the end of this 5th anniversary year of
the Paris Agreement’s adoption;


(iii) reaffirmed their support for the Kainaki II Declaration for Urgent Climate Change Action Now,
recognising the importance of responding to the three-pronged crisis currently facing the region – the
devastating effects of climate change, the impact of COVID-19, and the fragile economic health of the
region as a consequence of inherent vulnerabilities – which require regional solidarity and collective
action;
                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report     117
-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

      (iv) called for stronger political engagement and advocacy in the lead up to and at COP26 to pursue
      our positions and interests, and tasked the Secretariat and the One CROP Plus team to progress the
      advocacy initiatives based on Option 1 and complemented by Option 2, where appropriate;
      (v) supported the need for consistent senior Pacific political representation for the duration of COP26
      negotiations, including clarity on the role of political champions, and tasked the One CROP Plus team to
      explore funding opportunities to ensure this;
      (vi) recognised the value of proactively engaging with the United Kingdom to discuss and consider its
      priorities as the President of COP26, and to inform the region’s preparations accordingly; and
      (vii) tasked the One CROP Plus team to consolidate information on the ambitious climate action
      initiatives adopted by Forum Dialogue Partners to inform Members’ bilateral, regional and international
      climate engagements.


      INDEPENDENT REPORT ON THE REVIEW OF THE PACIFIC ISLANDS
      DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
      Ministers considered an update on the Pacific Islands Development Program’s standing as a CROP
      member, including an Independent Assessment of the Eligibility of the Pacific Islands Development
      Program (PIDP) to Remain a Member of the CROP.


      Ministers:
      (i) noted the final report of the Independent Assessment of the Eligibility of the Pacific Islands
      Development Program (PIDP) to Remain a Member of the CROP;
      (ii) considered and supported the Secretariat’s proposed response to the findings and six
      recommendations of the final report of the Independent Assessment; and
      (iii) commended the final report of the Independent Assessment, including the Secretariat’s response to
      Forum Leaders for their decision.


      OTHER MATTERS
      Human Rights Special Rapporteur on Human Rights and Climate Change
      The Republic of the Marshall Islands tabled the proposal for the appointment of a Human Rights Special
      Rapporteur on Human Rights and Climate Change by the June 2021 session of the UN Human Rights
      Council (HRC).


      Ministers:
      (i) Supported and endorsed the proposal for a dedicated special procedure mandate holder (Special
      Rapporteur) of the HRC on human rights and climate change;
      (ii) supported efforts to secure the creation of the HRC special procedure on human rights and climate
      change through Pacific Islands Forum diplomatic missions and representation to the UN, particularly in
      Geneva, including through engagement in HRC sessions, side events, and other relevant activities; and
      (iii) tasked the Secretariat, within existing resources, to support relevant Forum advocacy and engagement
      activities towards the creation of the HRC special procedure on human rights and climate change.
      Pacific Islands Forum Annual Women Leaders Meeting
      Australia presented the proposal for a Pacific Islands Forum Annual Women Leaders Meeting.

118   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

Ministers:
(i) recognised the severe and disproportionate impact of COVID-19 on women and girls, the increasing
economic insecurity and rising levels of gender-based violence, and the continued accessibility to
essential health, education and other social services. These are challenges facing the full Forum
membership. Additionally, women are the majority of the workers at the frontline of COVID-19 as health
care professionals and are the central caregivers in the community;
(ii) noted the proposal by the Secretariat to review the 2012 Pacific Leaders Gender Equality Declaration,
and acknowledged the need for reinvigorated regional commitment towards gender equality; and
(iii) welcomed, supported and recommended the proposal for an annual meeting of Pacific women
leaders for consideration by Leaders, with the specific timing, focus and reporting processes to be
consulted further with Members and relevant stakeholders for consideration at the 2020 Budget Session
of the FOC.
Wellbeing of Pacific Seafarers
Kiribati provided an update relating to the repatriation of Pacific Seafarers.


Ministers:
(i) noted the update on the alarming impacts of COVID-19 on seafarers as a special humanitarian case;
(ii) endorsed the development of a letter from the Secretariat to the Pacific United Nations Resident
Coordinators calling on the UN to work with development partners, to urgently address this matter;
(iii) noted the existing support available through the Pacific Humanitarian Corridor; and
(iv) tasked the Secretariat to coordinate with interested Members and work with UN agencies in the
Pacific to address this issue.
International Candidacies
New Zealand and Australia provided updates on their international candidacies.


Ministers:
(i) supported New Zealand’s candidates:
(a) Sir Robert Martin, for re-election to the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities for
the term 2021 – 2024;
(b) Dr Penelope Ridings, for the International Law Commission for the term 2022 – 2026;

(ii) supported Australia’s candidate, Dr Robert Floyd, for Executive Secretary of the Preparatory
Commission for the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test Ban Treaty Organisation; and
(iii) recommended the candidates to Leaders for endorsement.
Update on the appointment process for the position of Secretary General and the Special Leaders Retreat
Ministers noted the update from the representative of the Forum Chair on the proposed date of the Special
Forum Leaders virtual Meeting, and that the Office of the Forum Chair, with support from the Secretariat,
will provide written options on the modalities and process of the appointment of the Secretary General
by 16 October 2020.
Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat, Suva
14 October 2020

                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   119
-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

      2020 FORUM
      ECONOMIC
      MINISTERS
      MEETING
      Virtual Meeting
      11 – 12 August 2020




120   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

                     PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM SECRETARIAT

                  2020 FORUM ECONOMIC MINISTERS MEETING

                                      Virtual Meeting
                                    11 – 12 August 2020

                                       OUTCOMES

        The 2020 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting was convened virtually on 11 – 12
August 2020. The meeting was chaired by the Honourable Seve Paeniu, Minister for Finance
of Tuvalu, and supported by the Secretary General of the Pacific Islands Forum, Dame Meg
Taylor.

2.      The meeting was attended at Ministerial level by Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Nauru,
New Zealand, Niue, Samoa, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. French Polynesia, Kiribati, New
Caledonia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and Solomon Islands were represented at
Officials level.

3.      The meeting was also attended by the following Council of Regional Organisations in
the Pacific (CROP) agencies: the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency, the Pacific
Community, the Pacific Aviation Safety Authority, the Pacific Power Association, the Pacific
Tourism Organisation, and the University of the South Pacific. Special Technical Observers
also in attendance were the Asian Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the
European Union, the International Monetary Fund, the Oceania Customs Organisation, the
Pacific Islands Private Sector Organisation, the Commonwealth Secretariat, the United
Nations, and the World Bank. The full List of Participants is at Annex A.

OFFICIAL OPENING

4.     In her introductory remarks, the Secretary General recognised the severe consequences
caused by the coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) to global and national economies, with
impacts on the livelihoods and prospects of our people to be felt for some time. The Secretary
General commended Members for rising to the extraordinary challenges posed by the
pandemic, and reminded of the growing uncertainty about the future of the Blue Pacific due to
inherent and persistent vulnerabilities that continue to challenge the region’s resilient
development and security, and which have been amplified by the COVID-19.

5.      The Secretary General encouraged Ministers to envisage the “new normal” post-
COVID-19 for the region, whether to wait until the global economy recovers, or to use the
opportunity to assert a regional economy that supports Pacific priorities, and to consider
investments, policies and partnerships required to secure the region’s economic resilience and
the wellbeing of its people now and into the future. The full remarks by the Secretary General
are at Annex B.

6.      In his opening remarks, the Chair also recognised the “new normal” and the
unprecedented circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and commended the decisive
and exemplary leadership by Leaders and Ministers to respond to the pandemic, which has
resulted in most Members of the region remaining amongst very few nations in the world that
are free from the virus. The Chair referred to the unfolding economic crisis that has followed

                                              1
                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   121
-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

      in the wake of the virus, and encouraged the continued building of resilient economies in the
      face of ongoing risks and uncertainties caused by climate induced natural disasters as well as
      other crises.

      7.    The Chair encouraged frank discussion on collective actions to strengthen the socio-
      economic resilience of our people and to secure the wellbeing and future of our Blue Pacific
      economies. The remarks by the Chair are at Annex C.

      8.     The Chair reaffirmed the importance of ensuring that their deliberations and outcomes
      contribute towards informing the development of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific
      Continent.

      DIALOGUES

      9.      Ministers considered statements from representatives of regional Civil Society
      Organisations (CSOs) and the Pacific Islands Private Sector Organisation (PIPSO). CSOs
      addressed key issues, including partnership in recovery and development, human security,
      agriculture and fisheries as preferred industry, economic recovery and the informal sector,
      socio-economic challenges, and education. PIPSO encouraged Ministers to expedite a forward-
      looking transformative plan beyond COVID-19 that was inclusive, aligned to Blue Pacific
      values, supported transition to sustainable and climate resilient industries, and protected the
      region’s environment and culture. To support the transformative plan, PIPSO encouraged
      Members to provide the necessary policies and support mechanisms for businesses. The full
      statements by Civil Society and Private Sector are at Annex D and Annex E.

      2020 BIENNIAL PACIFIC SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT

      10.    Ministers considered the progress of the region’s tracking against the 2030 Agenda
      through the Regional SDG Biennial Report on the Sustainable Development Goals, taking into
      account the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic.

      11.     Forum Economic Ministers:

              (i)    recognised the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic threaten to set back years of
                     hard-won development gains;

              (ii)   endorsed the 2020 Biennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report as a
                     progress update on the recommendations outlined in the 2018 Quadrennial
                     Report;

              (iii) acknowledged the valuable overview provided by the Report on the region’s
                    tracking against the 2030 Agenda, and reaffirmed that the Pacific Sustainable
                    Development Roadmap remains the region’s plan for implementing the 2030
                    Agenda, as the Pacific grapples with the COVID-19 pandemic;

              (iv) agreed that the report be considered in the development of the 2050 Strategy for
                   the Blue Pacific Continent; and

              (v)    acknowledged, and committed to address, as appropriate, the key findings of
                     the 2020 Biennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report at the national level,

                                                        2
122   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

              and to work closely with the Forum Secretariat to continue to advocate the same
              with partners.

IMPACTS OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC

Economic Impact Assessment of COVID-19

12.     Ministers considered and discussed the unprecedented economic and development
related impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on Forum Member countries and their economies
and communities, and considered a range of short and medium-term options for economic
recovery, including prioritising investment in health, infrastructure, public services and food
security. Ministers also shared ideas and lessons learned to assist countries and the region to
address the impacts of the unprecedented economic crisis brought about by the pandemic.

13.    Ministers acknowledged the need to reorient regional responses towards a post-
COVID-19 “new normal” environment, including the value of diversifying economies to
reduce reliance on few sectors for growth and economic development. Ministers also
recognised the importance of ICT and digital economy moving forward to create new industries
and sources of growth.

14.    Ministers acknowledged the value of regionally established mechanisms such as the
PHP-C, which has supported the ease of movement of people and medical supplies across
borders.

15.    Forum Economic Ministers:

       (i)    issued a Ministerial statement on Economic and Social Impacts of COVID-19 on
              the Pacific, highlighting the serious impacts of COVID-19 on Pacific economies,
              and called for support from the international community;

       (ii)   noted the analytical overview provided by the Secretariat on the economic
              impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy, as well as the
              economies and communities of the Pacific region;

       (iii) requested the Secretariat, in partnership with CROP agencies and development
             partners to monitor the evolving impact of COVID-19 on the region and provide
             appropriate policy and technical advice and support to Forum Island governments
             in their efforts to avert and recover from the economic impacts of the pandemic;

       (iv) acknowledged the importance of accessibility to data, and requested CROP
            agencies and development partners to coordinate their efforts to acquire and share
            data on key socio-economic indicators to avoid duplication and provide Forum
            Island Countries with quality, timely policy analysis and advice on topical
            economic issues, such as the economic impact of COVID-19;

       (v)    urged relevant development partners, MDBs and international institutions to
              provide the appropriate levels of support that focuses on grant financing
              arrangements, including direct budget support and other forms of innovative
              measures, including “debt for nature swaps” (climate change, post disaster


                                              3

                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   123
-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

                    reconstruction and Blue Pacific initiatives), to support the economic recovery of
                    FICs;

              (vi) noted the importance of strengthening health infrastructures in relation to the re-
                   opening of borders, and recognised the work underway through the Pacific
                   Humanitarian Pathway for COVID-19 (PHP-C) to support Members;

              (vii) recognised that economic growth and human development depend on safe,
                    affordable and reliable air and sea connectivity to transport passengers and freight
                    to, from and within the Pacific region, and considered how this could be achieved
                    sustainably over the long-term without creating additional fiscal burdens or
                    leaving any Forum Island Country isolated;

              (viii) acknowledged the importance of, and lent support to relevant policy reforms,
                     particularly to address the underlying structural economic challenges of Forum
                     Island Countries to unlock the region’s potential to realise sustained economic
                     growth, and to assist Forum Island Countries to respond better to future
                     shocks/disasters;

              (ix) recognised the value of collective action in addressing common challenges and
                   therefore agreed to establish a regional COVID-19 Economic Recovery
                   Taskforce comprising interested Members to lead a coordinated response that
                   addresses COVID-19 regional economic priorities, including health, digital
                   economy and connectivity, food security and agriculture, and building resilient
                   and sustainable economies;

              (x)   reaffirmed the need to work collaboratively with regional and national
                    mechanisms that are already in place on COVID-19 related efforts, and
                    collectively engage with development partners on key regional issues, including
                    innovative development financing mechanisms; and

              (xi) tasked the Forum Secretariat to convene the 3rd annual Regional Development
                   Partners Roundtable, as part of the dialogue with FEMM development partners.

      Socio-economic impacts of COVID-19

      16.    Ministers expressed grave concern regarding the devastating social impacts of COVID-
      19, highlighting heightened poverty levels, access to education, social protection gaps, and
      increased mental health and psycho-social issues, particularly for vulnerable groups, including
      women and girls, youth, and persons with disabilities. Ministers recognised the challenging
      road to recovery and the need for innovative and sustainable solutions to address the social
      impacts of COVID-19.

      17.      Ministers noted that a coordinated regional approach will help to overcome the capacity
      constraints faced by Members, and reduce uncertainties and avoid duplication of efforts across
      the region. It will result in better capturing real-time data relating to pre-existing and emerging
      vulnerable groups and provide the necessary support to Members with COVID-19 recovery
      efforts.



                                                        4
124   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

18.    Forum Economic Ministers:

       (i)    considered and endorsed the concept note for a detailed and comprehensive
              regional assessment of the socio-economic implications of the COVID-19
              pandemic, and agreed to work with Finance, Statistics, and other relevant
              departments to provide access to national data held at national and regional level
              that will be required to complete the report on the socio-economic impacts of the
              COVID-19 in the Pacific;

       (ii)   noted that a CROP Taskforce has been established to progress the assessment,
              including the collation and analysis of data obtained through various monitoring
              and survey tools, including disability survey tools, that will inform long term
              recovery policy development and strategies; and

       (iii) reaffirmed the need to work collaboratively and leverage international, regional
             and national mechanisms that are already in place on COVID-19 to avoid
             duplication of efforts.

REALISING THE TRIPLE DIVIDEND OF RESILIENCE PLANNING AND
FINANCING

19.     Ministers noted that the Pacific region’s focus over the past decade has been on
accessibility to financing for resilient development, and noted the role of Ministries of Finance
in galvanising transformative action at the national level in regard to robust country systems,
flexible financing options and partnerships toward resilient development.

20.    Forum Economic Ministers:

       (i)    noted the progress update since their 2019 meeting, and reaffirm the critical role
              that Ministries of Finance play in sustaining national actions and partnerships to
              unlock the ‘Triple Dividend of Resilience’;

       (ii)   commended the collaborative work of the informal Technical Working Group on
              Public Financial Management and Climate Change Finance coordinated by the
              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat and the Pacific Financial Technical Assistance
              Centre (PFTAC), and requested an update in 2021; and

       (iii) tasked the Forum Secretariat, in collaboration with the Pacific Islands Private
             Sector Organisation (PIPSO), to work with Members and national private sector
             organisations on appropriate options to facilitate structured regional engagement
             between governments and the private sector, in climate change and disaster risk
             financing.

PACIFIC RESILIENCE FACILITY

21.    Ministers discussed the progress to date by the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF)
Technical Working Group (TWG) and the Forum Secretariat since the endorsement by the
Forum Economic Ministers and Forum Leaders in 2019 to establish the PRF.



                                               5
                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   125
-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

      22.     Ministers highlighted existing regional and national risk transfer and disaster risk
      financing initiatives, and discussed the need for complementarity with the PRF, including the
      Pacific Islands Climate Change Insurance Facility (PICCIF) and the Pacific Catastrophe Risk
      Insurance Company (PCRIC). Ministers noted the niche of the PRF being to provide low
      quantum grants upfront for community-level preparedness projects to build disaster resilience.

      23.     Forum Economic Ministers:

              (i)    acknowledged the progress, to date, to implement the 2019 Forum Economic
                     Ministers Meeting (FEMM) and 2019 Forum Leaders decision to establish the
                     PRF, including the extensive consultations with Members that culminated in the
                     development of the draft PRF Prospectus and Transitional Arrangements;

              (ii)   endorsed the proposed PRF Prospectus;

              (iii) supported the PRF Transitional Arrangements, and recommend it to the Forum
                    Officials Committee for endorsement, in view of the governance, operational,
                    finance, accountability, and other key considerations relating to housing the PRF
                    Transitional Arrangements under the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat;

              (iv) supported the Secretariat and the PRF TWG to mobilise support of development
                   partners and other relevant stakeholders, leading up to a global pledging event to
                   capitalise the PRF;

              (v)    recognised the current uncertainties in the global development financing
                     landscape and agreed to carefully consider and revisit, in consultation with the
                     PRF TWG, the timing of a global pledging event to capitalise the PRF;

              (vi) requested the Secretariat and PRF TWG to provide updates to Forum Members,
                   as required, on progress in implementing FEMM decisions on the PRF;

              (vii) tasked the Secretariat to explore integrating preparedness to pandemics in the
                    PRF, ensuring it is in-line with the niche, purpose and objectives of the PRF; and

              (viii) recognised Samoa’s offer to host the PRF once it is established as an international
                     organisation.

      OTHER MATTERS

      Next FEMM and Release of 2020 FEMM Papers

      24.     Forum Economic Ministers:

              (i)    noted that Vanuatu will host the FEMM in 2021, as decided by Economic
                     Ministers at their 2018 and 2019 meetings, subject to the COVID-19 situation,
                     and further noted the interest expressed by Tonga to be a reserve host for 2021;

              (ii)   noted that the 2022 and 2023 FEMM will be held at the Pacific Islands Forum
                     Secretariat in Suva, in accordance with the FEMM Charter; and


                                                        6
126   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

       (iii) considered the established criteria and supported the recommended document
             release classifications of the FEMM papers.

SPECIFIC ISSUES ARISING RELATED TO FEMM STANDING AGENDA ITEMS &
INFORMATION PAPERS

25.    Forum Economic Ministers:

       (i)    noted the updates on FEMM Standing Agenda items;

       (ii)   noted information paper PIFS(20)FEMM.Info.10 – Co-Investment:
              Infrastructure Investment Framework: PIIF’s role in COVID-19 in the Pacific,
              and encouraged the consideration of leveraging financing available in the region
              through the superannuation funds for additional development financing;

       (iii) acknowledged information paper PIFS(20)FEMM.Info.9 – Early Childhood
             Development (ECD), and the establishment of the ministerial level and multi-
             sectoral Pacific Regional Council on ECD, and urged a more comprehensive
             discussion on this issue, including an out-of-session paper to be circulated to
             FEMM, recognising the importance of early childhood development to the region;
             and

       (iv) noted the other information papers.




Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat, Suva
12 August 2020




                                              7
                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   127
-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

                                                                                                    Annex A

                                          LIST OF PARTICIPANTS

      FORUM MEMBER COUNTRIES                                   Cook Island High Commission

      AUSTRALIA                                                Ms Antonina Browne
                                                               Senior Foreign Service Officer
      Honourable Michael Sukkar                                Pacific & Regional Affairs
      Assistant Treasurer and Minister for Housing
                                                               Mr Ewan Cameron
      Honourable Alex Hawke                                    Foreign Service Officer
      Minister for International Development and               Pacific & Regional Affairs
      the Pacific
                                                               Ms Ngariki Teaea
      Mr Michael Xanthis                                       Foreign Service Officer
      Policy Adviser to Minister Sukkar                        Pacific & Regional Affairs, MFAI
      Minister Sukkar’s Office
                                                               FIJI
      Mr Matthew Harding
      Director, Economic Policy and Programming                Honourable Aiyaz Sayed-Khaiyum
      Section                                                  Attorney General and Minister for Economy
      Office of the Pacific
                                                               Ms Makereta Konrote
      Mr Jonathan Gouy                                         Permanent Secretary
      Senior Adviser                                           Ministry of Economy
      International Policy and Engagement Division
      Australia Treasury                                       Mr Shiri Gounder
                                                               Head
      Ms Renee Deschamps                                       Fiscal Policy & Research Analysis Division
      Counsellor                                               Ministry of Economy
      Australian High Commission
                                                               Mr Mohammed Jabid
      COOK ISLANDS                                             Manager – Fiscal Forecasting, Research and
                                                               Policy Analysis Unit
      Honourable Tingika Elikana                               Fiscal Policy and Research Analysis Division
      Associate Minister for Finance                           Ministry of Economy
      Ministry of Finance and Economic
      Management                                               Mr Tuimasi Ulu
                                                               Principal Economist - Fiscal Forecasting,
      Mr Garth Henderson                                       Research and Policy Analysis Unit
      Financial Secretary                                      Fiscal Policy and Research Analysis Division
      Ministry of Finance and Economic                         Ministry of Economy
      Management
                                                               Ms Laite Ratuvuki
      Mr Mani Mate                                             Senior Foreign Service Officer
      Director                                                 Roving Ambassador’s Division
      Development Coordination Division, MFEM                  Ministry of Foreign Affairs

      Mr Jim Gosselin                                          FRENCH POLYNESIA
      Director
      Pacific & Regional Affairs, MFAI                         Mr Lau Poui Cheung Maurice
                                                               Head of Pacific Affairs
      Mr Jim Armistead                                         Delegation for International, European and
      Charge de Affaires                                       Pacific Affairs

                                                        8
128   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

Ms Lechat Kitalong Mareva                           Office of Regional Cooperation and External
Pacific Affairs Advisor – Legal Counsel             Relations
Delegation for International, European and
Pacific Affairs                                     Ms Scarlett Mitran
                                                    Officer in Charge of Economic Cooperation
KIRIBATI                                            and Trade
                                                    Office of Regional Cooperation and External
HE David Teaabo                                     Relations
High Commissioner
Kiribati High Commission in Fiji                    Ms Brigid Morel
                                                    Internal Relations Advisor for the President of
Finau Soqo                                          New Caledonia
Director                                            Government of New Caledonia
National Economic Planning Office
Ministry of Finance & Economic                      Ms Rose Wete
Development                                         Official Representative of
                                                    New Caledonia to Fiji
NAURU
                                                    NEW ZEALAND
Novena Itsimaera
Secretary of Finance                                Mr Fletcher Tabuteau
Department of Finance                               Parliamentary Under-Secretary for Foreign
                                                    Affairs
Mr John Peterson                                    Member of Parliament
Adviser to the Minister of Finance
Department of Finance                               Mr Llewellyn Roberts
                                                    Divisional Manager, Sustainable Development
Ms Karen Whitham                                    Sector & Thematic Division, Pacific &
Deputy Secretary Treasury                           Development Group, MFAT
Department of Finance
                                                    HE Jonathan Curr
HE Michael Aroi                                     High Commissioner
Nauru High Commissioner                             New Zealand High Commission in Fiji
Nauru High Commission in Fiji
                                                    Mr Alex Shahryar-Davies
NEW CALEDONIA                                       Unit Manager, Governance & Economics,
                                                    Pacific & Development Group, MFAT
Hon. Christopher Gyges
Minister for Trade                                  Ms Jessica Thorn
Government of New Caledonia                         Private Secretary Foreign Affairs
                                                    Office of Minister of Foreign Affairs
Ms Sandrine Bellier
Chief Officer in Charge of Economic                 Ms Virginia Dawson
Cooperation and Trade                               Counsellor
Office of Regional Cooperation and External         New Zealand High Commission in Fiji
Relations
                                                    Ms Chris Van Hooft
Alexis Labau                                        Senior Adviser (Economics), Pacific &
Trade and International Relations Advisor for       Development Group, MFAT
Minister for Trade
Government of New Caledonia                         Ms Christine Conway
                                                    First Secretary
Mr Jimmy Naouna                                     New Zealand High Commission in Fiji
Officer in Charge of Multilateral Relations


                                                9
                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   129
-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

      Ms Caroline Eszes                                        Division of International Development
      Policy Officer, Pacific Regional Division,               Assistance
      Pacific & Development Group, MFAT                        Ministry of Finance Banking and Postal
                                                               Services
      NIUE
                                                               SAMOA
      Honourable Crossley Tatui
      Minister for Finance                                     Hon. Sili Eoa Tuioti
                                                               Minister for Finance
      Mrs Doreen Siataga
      Financial Secretary                                      Mr Leasiosiofa’asisina Oscar Malielegaoi
                                                               Chief Executive Officer
      Mrs Emi Hipa                                             Ministry of Finance
      Head of External Affairs
      Office of External Affairs                               Ms Peseta Noumea Simi
                                                               Chief Executive Officer
      Ms Nola Morrissey                                        Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
      Senior External Affairs Officer
      Office of External Affairs                               Mr Leiataua Henry Ah Ching
                                                               Deputy CEO
      REPUBLIC OF THE MARSHALL                                 Ministry of Finance
      ISLANDS
                                                               Ms Nella Tavita -Levy
      Mrs Maybelline A. Bing                                   Assistant CEO
      Secretary                                                Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
      Ministry of Finance, Banking and Postal
      Services                                                 H.E Ali’ioaiga Feturi Elisaia
                                                               High Commissioner-designate of Samoa to
      H.E Tregar A.Ishoda                                      Fiji
      Ambassador                                               Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade

      Mrs Rina Keju                                            Ms Desna Solofa
      Deputy Chief of Mission                                  Assistant CEO
      Republic of the Marshall Islands Embassy to              Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
      Fiji
                                                               Ms Francella Strickland
      Mr Spencer Joe                                           Assistant CEO
      Assistant Secretary                                      Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade
      Accounting Division
      Ministry of Finance, Banking and Postal                  SOLOMON ISLANDS
      Services
                                                               H.E William Soaki
      Mr Terry Keju                                            High Commissioner
      First Secretary
      Republic of the Marshall Islands Embassy to              Barnabas Vote
      Fiji                                                     Chief Economic Officer
                                                               Ministry of Finance and Treasury
      Ms Dahlia Kaneko
      Assistant Secretary                                      TONGA
      Budget and Procurement and Supply Division
      Ministry of Finance, Banking and Postal                  Honourable Tevita Lavemaau
      Services                                                 Minister of Finance

      Ms Malie Tarbwillin                                      Mr Edgar Cocker
      Assistant Secretary

                                                         10
130   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

Chief Secretary and Secretary to Cabinet        CROP AGENCIES
Prime Minister’s Office
                                                Pacific Aviation Safety Office
Mrs. Balwyn Faotusia
      Secretary and
Chief Executive     Secretary to Cabinet
                Officer                         CROP
                                                Mr      AGENCIES
                                                    Andrew   Valentine
Prime Minister’s
Ministry         Office
         of Finance                             General Manager
                                                Pacific Aviation Safety Office
Mrs.Tufui
Ms   Balwyn   Faotusia
          Faletau                               Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency
Chief Executive
Deputy           Officer Officer
        Chief Executive                         Mr Andrew Valentine
Ministry of Finance (Policy)                    General Manager
                                                Manumatavai    Tupou-Roosen
                                                Director-General
   Tufui ‘Otunuku
Ms Pisila Faletau                               Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency
Deputy Chief Executive Officer                  Matthew Hooper
Ministry of Finance (Procurement)
                    (Policy)                    Manumatavai
                                                Deputy         Tupou-Roosen
                                                         Director-General
                                                Director-General
Ms Pisila
Sivoki    ‘Otunuku
       Lavemaau                                 Patricia Sachs-Cornish
DeputyDeputy
Acting  Chief Executive
               SecretaryOfficer                 Matthew Hooper
                                                Executive  Officer
                    (Procurement)
Ministry of Finance (Budget)                    Deputy Director-General
                                                Pacific Power Association
SivokiLolo
Saane  Lavemaau                                 Patricia Sachs-Cornish
Acting Deputy
Deputy         SecretaryOfficer
        Chief Executive                         Executive
                                                Mr  AndrewOfficer
                                                             Daka
                    (Budget)
Ministry of Finance (Resilient)                 Executive Director
                                                Pacific Power Association
Saane Lolo
TUVALU                                          The Pacific Community
Deputy Chief Executive Officer                  Mr Andrew Daka
Ministry of Finance
Honourable           (Resilient)
             Seve Paeniu                        Executive
                                                Dr         Director
                                                   Stuart Minchin
Minister for Finance                            Director-General
TUVALU                                          The Pacific Community
Karlos Lee Moresi                               Ms Coral Pasisi
Honourable
Chief        SeveOfficer
      Executive   Paeniuand Permanent           Dr Stuart
                                                Senior    Minchin
                                                        Adviser – Director-General Office
Minister for Finance
Secretary                                       Director-General
Ministry of Finance                             Pacific Tourism Organisation
Karlos Lee Moresi                               Ms Coral Pasisi
Chief
Mr    Executive
   Niuatui       Officer and Permanent
            Niuatui                             Senior
                                                Mr      Adviser –Cocker
                                                    Christopher   Director-General Office
Secretary
Deputy  Secretary                               Chief Executive Officer
Ministry of Finance                             Pacific Tourism Organisation
                                                Tahitia Waqavonovono
Mr Niuatui
Ms Pepetua Niuatui
            Latasi                              Mr Christopher
                                                Executive        Cocker
                                                           Adviser
Deputy Secretary
Assistant Secretary                             Chief Executive Officer
Ministry of Finance                             Benjamin Shaw
                                                Tahitia Waqavonovono
                                                Intern
Ms Pepetua Latasi
VANUATU                                         Executive Adviser
Assistant Secretary                             University of the South Pacific
Ministry of Finance
Honourable  Johnny Koanapo Rasou                Benjamin Shaw
Minister of Finance and Economic                Intern
                                                Professor Pal Ahluwalia
VANUATU
Management                                      Vice-Chancellor and President
                                                University of the South Pacific
Honourable
Mr          Johnny Koanapo Rasou
   Letlet August                                Mr Jaindra Karan
Minister General
Director of Finance and Economic                Professor Pal
                                                Executive      Ahluwalia
                                                           Director - Strategic, Partnerships,
Management
Ministry of Finance and Economic                Vice-Chancellor
                                                Advancement    andand President
                                                                   Communication
Management
Mr Letlet August                                Mr Avinash
                                                Dr  Jaindra Karan
                                                            Kumar
Director
H.E.     General
     Nikenike  Vurobaravu                       ExecutiveProgramme
                                                Regional   Director - Strategic, Partnerships,
                                                                       Coordinator  - Strategic,
Ministry
High     of Finance and Economic
     Commissioner                               AdvancementAdvancement
                                                Partnerships,  and Communication
                                                                             and
Management                                      Communication
                                                Dr Avinash Kumar
H.E. Nikenike Vurobaravu                   11   Regional Programme Coordinator - Strategic,
High Commissioner                               Partnerships, Advancement and
                                                Communication

                                           11
                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   131
-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

      SPECIAL TECHNICAL OBSERVERS                              IMF Pacific Islands Division/Asia and Pacific
                                                               Department (IMF)
      Asia Development Bank
                                                               The Commonwealth Secretariat
      Ms Leah Gutierrez
      Director General                                         Mr Senyo Agbohlah
      Pacific Department                                       Deputy Head of Office – Office of the
                                                               Secretary General
      Ms Emma Veve
      Deputy Director General                                  Travis Mitchell
      Pacific Department                                       Adviser and Head, Economic Policy and Small
                                                               States
      Mr Masayuki Tachiiri
      Regional Director                                        United Nations
      Pacific Subregional Office – Pacific
      Department                                               Mr Sanaka Samarasinha
                                                               UN Resident Coordinator
      Mr Erik Aelbers                                          UN Multi Country Office for the Pacific
      Unit Head – Economics and Programming
      Pacific Subregional Office – Pacific                     Mr Iosefa Maiava
      Department                                               Head, ESCAP Pacific Office
                                                               UNESCAP Pacific Office
      European Investment Bank
                                                               Mr Sanjesh Naidu
      Ms Ella Drake                                            Economic Affairs Officer
      Business Analyst                                         UNESCAP Pacific Office

      European Union                                           World Bank

      Ms Galia Agisheva                                        Mr David M Gould
      Head of Political and Economic                           Lead Economist-Program Leader
      Delegation of the EU for the Pacific                     World Bank, PNG/Pacific Office

      Mr Adrian Nicolae                                        Mr Paul Vallely
      Acting Head of Cooperation                               Operations Manager
      Delegation of the EU for the Pacific                     World Bank, PNG/Pacific Office

      International Monetary Fund                              Mr Lasse Melgaard
                                                               Resident Representative
      Mr David Kloeden                                         World Bank, Suva Pacific Hub
      Centre Coordinator
      IMF Asia Pacific Department (PFTAC)                      Oceania Customs Organisation

      Mr Richard Neves                                         Mr Richard Brennan
      PFM Advisor                                              Head of Secretariat
      IMF Asia Pacific Department (PFTAC)
                                                               Ms Irma Daphney Stone
      Ms Leni Hunter                                           Operations Manager
      Resident Representative
      Pacific Islands Division/Asia and Pacific                Civil Society
      Department (IMF)
                                                               Mr Solomon Yeo
      Iulai Lavea                                              Pacific Island Students Fighting Climate
      PFM Advisor                                              Change Network


                                                       12
132   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

Ms Vivian Koster                                   Dr Filimon Manoni
Pacific Youth Council                              Deputy Secretary General

Ms Mele Amanaki                                    Zarak Khan
Pacific Islands Council of Trade Unions            Director Programmes and Initiatives

Ms Ema Vueti                                       Sione Tekiteki
Pacific Islands Council of Queensland              Director Governance and Engagement
Brisbane Australia
                                                   Paki Ormsby
Mr James Laki                                      Director Policy
Peace Foundation Melanesia
Port Moresby Papua New Guinea                      Viliame Wilikilagi
                                                   Acting Senior Adviser
Pacific Islands Private Sector Organisation
                                                   Denton Rarawa
Mr Stephen Lyon                                    Senior Adviser Economics
Chairperson
                                                   Andrew Anton
Ms Alisi Tuqa                                      Economic Officer
CEO
                                                   Paula Uluinaceva
Ms Kristyn Lobendahn                               Economic Adviser Consultant
Communications Officer
                                                   Alifeleti Soakai
Ms Jennifer Ula-Fruean                             Political Issues Adviser
Vice Chairperson & President Samoa
Chamber of Commerce                                Nikola Komailevuka
                                                   Executive Coordination Officer
Mr Mark Stege
President RMI Chamber of Commerce                  Nola Faasau
                                                   Acting International Legal Adviser
Mr Howard Politini
Board Member                                       Teanuanua Nicole
Fiji Commerce & Employers Federation               Governance Officer

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat                  Glynis Miller
                                                   Trade Development Officer
Meg Taylor, DBE
Secretary General                                  Shiu Raj
                                                   Pacific Islands Representative, EU-OACPS




Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat, Suva
12 August 2020




                                              13
                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   133
-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------

                                                                                                            Annex B

                                  INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
                   by Dame Meg Taylor, Secretary General of the Pacific Islands Forum

      Honourable Ministers, Senior Officials, Representatives of CROP Agencies, Development  Annex B
      Partners, Ladies and Gentlemen
                                      INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
                  by Dame
            Honorable       Meg Taylor,
                        Ministers, we needSecretary  General
                                           not be reminded of of
                                                              thethe Pacific
                                                                  context    Islands
                                                                          within     Forum
                                                                                 which we meet today –
      the coronavirus pandemic or COVID-19 has had severe consequences for the global and our
      Honourable     Ministers,
      national economies.         Seniorus Officials,
                             It affects                Representatives
                                           all and its impact           of CROP
                                                              on the livelihoods andAgencies,  Development
                                                                                     prospects of our people
      Partners, Ladies   and Gentlemen
      will be felt for some time to come. Our countries have risen to the extraordinary challenges posed
      by the pandemic, by mobilising all government resources as well as domestic policy measures, to
      combatHonorable     Ministers,
                and respond           we need not be reminded of the context within which we meet today –
                              to the crisis.
      the coronavirus pandemic or COVID-19 has had severe consequences for the global and our
      national
      However,economies.
                   we shouldItalso
                                 affects us all
                                     remind     and its impact
                                             ourselves          on the livelihoods
                                                         that COVID-19     pandemicanddidprospects of our
                                                                                          not simply      people
                                                                                                      arrive in a
      will be  felt for some  time  to come.   Our countries   have risen to the extraordinary challenges
      vacuum. Rather, it arrived in the midst of growing uncertainty about the future of our Blue Pacific, posed
      by
      duethe  pandemic,
           to inherent     by mobilising
                         vulnerabilities   all government
                                         faced  by the regionresources  as wellchange.
                                                               due to climate   as domestic  policy
                                                                                       For the      measures,
                                                                                               Pacific, COVID- to
      combat    and  respond  to the crisis.
      19 amplified the persistent vulnerabilities that continue to challenge our resilient development and
      our security.
      However, we should also remind ourselves that COVID-19 pandemic did not simply arrive in a
      vacuum.  Rather,
      Therefore,        it arrived
                  far from    beinginthe
                                      thecause
                                          midst of
                                                of growing   uncertainty
                                                    current social,       about the
                                                                      economic   andfuture   of our
                                                                                       political    Blue Pacific,
                                                                                                 challenges,  the
      due to inherent vulnerabilities   faced by the region  due to  climate  change.  For
      COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated existing vulnerabilities, in some cases deepening  the  Pacific, COVID-
                                                                                                             and
      19 amplifiedthem,
      broadening    the persistent  vulnerabilities
                         and in other               that continue
                                       cases accelerating          to challenge
                                                           their arrival.        our resilient
                                                                          It is within         development
                                                                                       this existing         and
                                                                                                     context that
      our security.
      we should consider the broader issues around the COVID-19 pandemic, in the Pacific region and
      our responses.
      Therefore, far from being the cause of current social, economic and political challenges, the
      COVID-19
      Among otherpandemic
                    things, thehas  exacerbated
                                 impact  of climateexisting
                                                     change vulnerabilities,    in some cases
                                                             together with COVID-19        has haddeepening   and
                                                                                                    a detrimental
      broadening  them,  and  in other cases  accelerating their arrival. It is within this existing
      impact by worsening the level of poverty and inequality within several Member States. Our      context  that
      we  should consider
      vulnerability        the broader
                    to climate     changeissues around
                                            induced      the COVID-19
                                                      natural  disasters, pandemic,    in the Pacific
                                                                           and the broader      human  region and
                                                                                                          security
      our responses.
      challenges that arise from these threats has created new challenges that will require innovative and
      collective approaches.
      Among other things, the impact of climate change together with COVID-19 has had a detrimental
      impact  by worsening
      This meeting   provides the  level of poverty
                               an important  avenue forandHonourable
                                                            inequality Ministers
                                                                        within several  Member
                                                                                  for Finance  andStates. Our
                                                                                                    Economic
      vulnerability  to climate   change   induced    natural  disasters, and  the  broader  human    security
      Development, to share key lessons and explore opportunities for regional initiatives to support and
      challenges
      complementthat  arise
                    each    from these
                          country’s     threats efforts.
                                     domestic   has created
                                                         The new  challenges
                                                              COVID-19       that willcompels
                                                                          pandemic     require innovative and
                                                                                               us to carefully
      collective approaches.
      think about what investments, policies and partnerships we require to secure our economic
      resilience and the wellbeing of our people now and into the future. It provides the opportunity to
      This  meeting
      envisage  whatprovides
                      we want an theimportant   avenue
                                      “new normal”      for for
                                                     to be,  Honourable
                                                                 our regionMinisters   for Finance
                                                                             – do we simply           and Economic
                                                                                                wait until  the global
      Development,    to share
      economy recovers,         key
                            or do  welessons
                                       use theand  explore opportunities
                                                opportunity                 for regional
                                                             to assert a regional         initiatives
                                                                                    economy            to support
                                                                                               that supports       and
                                                                                                                Pacific
      complement
      priorities?   each   country’s   domestic   efforts. The   COVID-19      pandemic    compels    us  to carefully
      think about what investments, policies and partnerships we require to secure our economic
      resilience
      Honourable  and the wellbeing
                    Ministers,         of ourbefore
                                the agenda     people
                                                    younow   andenables
                                                         I hope   into theanfuture. It provides
                                                                             appropriate          the opportunity
                                                                                           and effective             to
                                                                                                            discussion
      envisage  what weAswant
      on such matters.      you the
                                  will“new
                                       note,normal”  to be, for
                                             the substantive     our region
                                                              matters        – do we simply
                                                                       for discussion   focus onwait
                                                                                                   theuntil the global
                                                                                                       vulnerabilities
      economy    recovers,
      outlined earlier – theorCOVID-19
                               do we use pandemic,
                                           the opportunity   to as
                                                       as well  assert  a regional
                                                                   the region’s     economyeconomic
                                                                                 underlying    that supports    Pacific
                                                                                                           challenges,
      priorities?
      including access to financing for resilience development, and economic inequalities.
      Honourable   Ministers,
      I wish you well  in yourthe agenda before
                               deliberations andyou I hope enables
                                                 productive meeting anahead.
                                                                       appropriate and effective discussion
      on such matters. As you will note, the substantive matters for discussion focus on the vulnerabilities
      outlined earlier – the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as the region’s underlying economic challenges,
      including access to financing for resilience development, and economic inequalities.

      I wish you well in your deliberations and productive meeting ahead.

                                                            14




                                                            14
134   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

                                                                                             Annex C

                                   OPENING REMARKS
                               by The Honourable Seve Paeniu
                     Minister for Finance for the Government of Tuvalu
                  and Chair of the 2020 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting

Honourable Ministers, Senior Officials, Representatives of CROP Agencies, Representatives of
Development Partners, Ladies and Gentlemen,

Honourable Ministers, welcome to our 2020 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting. Thank you for
your support and confidence to Chair this important meeting.

We meet in unfamiliar times as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The fact that our meeting this
year is via virtual means is an example of this unfamiliarity, though as we often hear, this way of
operating is slowly becoming some type of ‘new normal’. Nonetheless, I trust it won’t take away
from the robustness of our deliberations today.

Colleague Ministers, we have four substantive agenda items before us today, none more important
than our consideration of the immediate and longer-term economic implications of the COVID-19
pandemic. There is no doubt that this is the preoccupation of us all at this point in time and so it is
appropriate that we spend sufficient time today deliberating the issues and options on this matter.

Our efforts to respond early and swiftly to contain the spread of the virus saved the majority of us
from infection. We remain amongst the few nations in the world that are largely free from the virus.
Unfortunately, however, there is no escaping the economic crisis that has followed in the wake of
the virus. It affects each and every one of us. Even though the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic
is still unfolding across the world, in our region, it has already affected our economies and our
people significantly, through loss of government revenues, shut down of businesses, loss of jobs
and incomes for families, which has significantly affected livelihoods, and heightened hardship in
our communities.

Our Leaders and Ministers have shown decisive and exemplary leadership to respond to the
pandemic. Many decisions made and policies enacted by our governments have been economically
tough but absolutely necessary to save lives and secure the public health and safety of the people
from the pandemic.

I welcome Honourable Ministers to share your country experiences in dealing with the pandemic,
and as is the Pacific Way, have frank discussions on how we could work together as a region to
strengthen the socio-economic resilience of our people.

We also have other important agenda items to discuss in this meeting to ensure we build resilient
economies in the face of ongoing risks and uncertainties caused by climate induced natural disasters
as well as other crises. Indeed, as we are all aware, at the same time we have all been dealing with
the COVID pandemic, some of us have also been faced with the impacts of Cyclone Harold,
outbreaks of dengue fever, floods, and volcanic eruptions. Vulnerability and risk remain inherent
in our economic context, now and into the future, and therefore we must continue to identify and
implement policies and strategies to secure our resilient development.

Honourable Ministers, I look forward to chairing this session and facilitating what I hope will be a
robust discussion on how we can work together to secure the wellbeing and future of our Blue
Pacific economies.

                                                  15
                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report   135
-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

136   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 136 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 137 End-----------------------

138   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2020 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 138 End-----------------------

