United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction

Annual Report
2019

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

© 2020 UNITED NATIONS
For additional information, please contact:
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
9-11 Rue de Varembé, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 917 89 08
Note: The designations employed and the presentation of maps in this report do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Data disaggregated by region reflects the coverage of UNDRR’s Regional Offices.
Photographs: © Unsplash/Jukan Tateisi
Pictures on page 10: © Unsplash/Ghristopher Campbell, © Unsplash/JC Gellidon, © Unsplash/Swaraj Tiwari, © Unsplash/
Michael Mims, © Unsplash/Johan De Jager, © Unsplash/Imansyah Muhamad Putera, © Unsplash/Yannes Kiefer, © Unsplash/
Maatla Seetelo, © Unsplash/Aleksandar Popovski

United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction

2019 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

If there is a lesson we have learned in 2019, it is that the world is an
increasingly fragile place, and that unresolved and emerging risk is at
the heart of this fragility.

FOREWORD
Back-to-back category 3 storms hit Malawi,
Mozambique and Zimbabwe in March. Large
wildfires caused loss of life and property
and had a huge impact on the environment,
notably in the Amazon, Australia and
California. These wildfires occurred during
the hottest year on record without an El Niño.
The climate emergency has manifested:
unpredictability, extremes and systemic risk
are on irrefutable display.

Mami Mizutori
Special Representative
of the Secretary-General
for Disaster Risk Reduction

The United Nations (UN) Secretary-General
used the occasion of the International Day for
Disaster Risk Reduction to call for disaster
risk reduction to be at the heart of the Decade
of Action that lies ahead of us.
The Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction 2019, launched at the 2019
Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction
(GP2019), drove home this message,
moving beyond disaster risk to consider the
pluralistic nature of risk, intersecting with
climate in multiple dimensions, at multiple
scales and with multiple impacts.
It would be easy to feel overwhelmed.
But what was also evident in 2019 is that
disaster risk reduction works, and there has
never been a more urgent time to invest in it.
I witnessed a compelling example of early
recognition of complex issues in Kisumu
(Kenya) – one of 4,311 cities participating in
the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk
Reduction (UNDRR) Making Cities Resilient
Campaign. When I visited in March, Kisumu
City manager, Doris Ombara, led me on a
“resilience tour”.
Ms. Ombara and colleagues are challenged
with a wide range of potential disaster

4 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

scenarios including floods, droughts, fires,
water and energy supply problems, solid
waste management difficulties and decaying
infrastructure. But they are investing in
reducing risk to support their plans for
sustainable development. I visited a new
managed rubbish dump site, built in a
disused quarry where it will not affect the
city’s water table, and a new bridge over a
flooded waterway linking the community
to a maternity hospital, children to schools
and farmers to markets. I was struck by the
remarkable level of civic participation and
engagement on risk reduction and resilience
issues.
Echoing this, the focus of GP2019 was on
Resilience Dividend: Toward Sustainable and
Inclusive Societies. It was held in Geneva in
May and was attended by more than 3,000
participants from 182 countries. GP2019
called for accelerated action in achieving the
seven targets of the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction (Sendai Framework)
and highlighted the importance of disaster
risk reduction to achieve the Transforming
our World: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development (2030 Agenda), and the
contribution of the Sendai Framework
towards the Paris Agreement, the Agenda for
Humanity, the New Urban Agenda and the
Samoa Pathway.
GP2019 was the first time that UN Member
States had reported publicly on progress
against the Sendai Framework. At the end
of 2019, 81 Member and observer States
reported the existence of a National Disaster
Risk Reduction strategy in the Sendai
Framework Monitor. One of the key criteria
for assessing these strategies is coherence
with global frameworks, including the 2030
Agenda and the Paris Agreement.

GP2019 provided a critical contribution to the
2019 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable
Development and the UN Climate Action Summit
later in the year. Recognizing the significant youth
participation component of GP2019, UNDRR
was subsequently requested by the SecretaryGeneral’s Office to support youth engagement
and programming for the Climate Action Summit.
The world’s attention was on the unveiling of a
range of ambitious new climate action initiatives
at the Climate Action Summit. UNDRR was
proud to be a partner in the new Risk-informed
Early Action Partnership – an initiative aiming to
protect a billion people in the developing world
from extreme weather – and which corresponds
to working towards Sendai Framework Target (g)
to increase access to early warning systems.
The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi,
announced the Coalition for Disaster Resilient
Infrastructure at the Climate Action Summit.
The initiative was initially proposed at UNDRR’s
2016 Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster
Risk Reduction. Through CDRI, UNDRR is
supporting governments and partners to reduce
infrastructure loss and damage and enhance the
resilience of trillions of dollars of infrastructure
investments.

UNDRR seized the opportunity to more closely
align its acronym with its name and mandate,
rebranding two weeks before GP2019. An
ambitious plan was developed to rebuild and
refresh the entire online UNDRR ecosystem to
support better communication and knowledge
management outputs, with the new UNDRR
website being launched at the end of 2019. The
appetite for risk information is increasing, with
PreventionWeb – the world’s only disaster risk
reduction knowledge platform – growing to
reach 1.1 million unique users, and social media
channels achieving an audience of more than 10
million.
I am grateful to all UNDRR partners and
supporters, and also to the Government of
Switzerland for its generous hosting of GP2019.
I am thankful to UNDRR staff for their dedication
during the year.
Risk is more deeply embedded in the world
around us than we may have previously realized,
and I look forward to seizing the opportunity we
have before us in 2020 to make risk reduction
everyone’s business for the good of the planet
and people everywhere. The Decade of Action
has commenced.

Events in 2019 made it very clear that planning
for disaster risk reduction must also include
planning for climate change adaptation. UNDRR,
the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change and other partners launched the
Target (e) Coherence Approach. This supports
40 countries that are most at risk to integrate
climate change adaptation into their national
disaster risk reduction strategies, and disaster
risk reduction into their national adaptation
plans to ensure coherence in implementing and
monitoring the Sendai Framework, the Paris
Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals.
 |  5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

CONTENTS

8

Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015–2030

16

Strategic Objective 1:
Strengthen global monitoring,
analysis and coordination
of Sendai Framework
implementation

10

UNDRR Strategic
Framework

26

62

Support to regional and
national Sendai Framework
implementation

Effective knowledge
management, communication
and global advocacy

44

68

Catalyse action through Member
States and partners

Strengthened organizational
performance

©Unsplash/Joshua Ness

Strategic Objective 2:

6  |  

12

Executive summary

Strategic Objective 3:

Enabler 1:

Enabler 2:

72

Financial overview

|

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION   7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015–2030

Priorities for action
There is a need for focused action within and across
sectors by States at local, national, regional and
global levels in the following four priority areas.

•	

Disaster risk management needs to be based on an
understanding of disaster risk in all its dimensions
of vulnerability, capacity, exposure of persons and
assets, hazard characteristics and the environment.

•	

PRIORITY 2

Targets

The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses
in lives, livelihoods and health and in the economic,
physical, social, cultural and environmental assets of
persons, businesses, communities and countries.

a.	 Substantially reduce global disaster mortality by
2030, aiming to lower the average per 100,000
global mortality rate in the decade 2020–2030
compared to the period 2005–2015.

b.	 Substantially reduce the number of affected

Goal
Prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk
through the implementation of integrated and
inclusive economic, structural, legal, social, health,
cultural, educational, environmental, technological,
political and institutional measures that prevent and
reduce hazard exposure and vulnerability to disaster,
increase preparedness for response and recovery,
and thus strengthen resilience.

people globally by 2030, aiming to lower the
average global figure per 100,000 n the decade
2020–2030 compared to the period 2005–2015.

©Unsplash/MontyLov

The present Framework will apply to the risk of
small-scale and large-scale, frequent and infrequent,
sudden and slow-onset disasters, caused by
natural or man-made hazards, as well as related
environmental, technological and biological
hazards and risks. It aims to guide the multi-hazard
management of disaster risk in development at all
levels as well as within and across all sectors.

8 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Disaster risk governance at the national, regional
and global levels is vital to the management of
disaster risk reduction in all sectors and ensuring the
coherence of national and local frameworks of laws,
regulations and public policies that, by defining roles
and responsibilities, guide, encourage and incentivize
the public and private sectors to take action and
address disaster risk.

PRIORITY 3

Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience

d.	 Substantially reduce disaster damage to critical

e.	 Substantially increase the number of countries

PRIORITY 4

to global gross domestic product (GDP) by 2030.

infrastructure and disruption of basic services,
among them health and educational facilities,
including through developing their resilience by
2030.

with national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies by 2020.

Scope and purpose

Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage
disaster risk

Public and private investment in disaster risk
prevention and reduction through structural and
non-structural measures are essential to enhance
the economic, social, health and cultural resilience
of persons, communities, countries and their assets,
as well as the environment. These can be drivers of
innovation, growth and job creation. Such measures
are cost-effective and instrumental to save lives,
prevent and reduce losses and ensure effective
recovery and rehabilitation.

c.	 Reduce direct disaster economic loss in relation

f.	 Substantially enhance international cooperation

to developing countries through adequate and
sustainable support to complement their national
actions for implementation of the present
Framework by 2030.

g.	 Substantially increase the availability of and

access to multi-hazard early warning systems
and disaster risk information and assessments to
people by 2030.

•	

Understanding disaster risk

PRIORITY 1

Expected outcome

Guiding principles

Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective
response, and to «Build Back Better» in recovery,
rehabilitation and reconstruction
Experience indicates that disaster preparedness
needs to be strengthened for more effective response
and ensure capacities are in place for effective
recovery. Disasters have also demonstrated that the
recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction phase,
which needs to be prepared ahead of the disaster,
is an opportunity to «Build Back Better» through
integrating disaster risk reduction measures. Women
and persons with disabilities should publicly lead and
promote gender- equitable and universally accessible
approaches during the response and reconstruction
phases.

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Primary responsibility of States to prevent
and reduce disaster risk, including through
cooperation.
Shared responsibility between central Government
and national authorities, sectors and stakeholders
as appropriate to national circumstances.
Protection of persons and their assets while
promoting and protecting all human rights
including the right to development.
Engagement from all of society.
Full engagement of all State institutions of an
executive and legislative nature at national and
local levels.
Empowerment of local authorities and
communities through resources, incentives and
decision-making responsibilities as appropriate.
Decision-making to be inclusive and risk-informed
while using a multi-hazard approach.
Coherence of disaster risk reduction and
sustainable development policies, plans, practices
and mechanisms, across different sectors.
Accounting of local and specific characteristics
of disaster risks when determining measures to
reduce risk.
Addressing underlying risk factors costeffectively through investment versus relying
primarly on post-disaster response and recovery.
«Build Back Better» for preventing the creation of,
and reducing existing, disaster risk.
The quality of global partnership and international
cooperation to be effective, meaningful and
strong.
Support from developed countries and partners to
developing countries to be tailored according to
needs and priorities as identified by them.

 |  9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

UNDRR Strategic Framework

Strategic
Objectives

Vision

Results

Mandate

Overarching
objective

The substantial reduction
of disaster risk and losses
for a sustainable future

1

Strengthen global
monitoring, analysis and
coordination of Sendai
Framework implementation

1.1

Global Progress of the
Sendai Framework & related
SDG targets assessed

1.2

Focal point of the United
Nations system for disaster
risk reduction and the
custodian of the Sendai
Framework, supporting
countries and societies
in its implementation,
monitoring and review of
progress

Global risk data, analysis
and policy advice generated

1.3

The prevention of
new and reduction of
existing disaster risk and
strengthening resilience
through successful multihazard disaster risk
management

Enabler

Support to regional and
national Sendai Framework
implementation

2.1

Regional & national
coordination mechanisms
leveraged to monitor
& accelerate Sendai
Framework

2.2

National disaster risk
reduction strategies &
plans developed in line
with Sendai Framework
prescribed guidance

2.3

3

Catalyse action through
Member States and
Partners

3.1

Fostered policy

coherence by engaging
with member States &
contributing to relevant
intergovernmental
processes

3.2

Coordination & advice
provided to UN System
partners at global level
towards effective &
efficient Sendai Framework
implementation

3.3

Global coordination and
accountability mechanisms
convened

Build capacity of
counterparts, UNCTs and
partners for DRR leadership

All of society engagement
and action promoted trough
strengthening partnerships
with key stakeholders

1

2

3.4

Effective knowledge
management,
communication
and global advocacy

10 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

2

Strengthened
organizational performance

Partnerships leveraged for
increased financing for
disaster risk reduction and
risk-sensitive investment

 | 11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Notable disaster events in 2019 included extreme heat-waves, cyclones,
wildfires and flooding, which caused thousands of deaths and injuries. Direct
economic losses and damage from disasters caused by natural hazards in
2019 were estimated at $232 billion.1 The bush-fires that raged in Australia
killed an estimated 1.25 billion animals,2 with as yet unknown consequences
on biodiversity. This accounts only for disasters triggered by natural hazards. It
says nothing of the human-induced biological, technological and environmental
hazards and risks that the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction
2015–2030 (Sendai Framework) encompasses.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The climate emergency was the top global
agenda item in 2019. The year ended what is
almost certain to be the warmest five-year period
and decade on record.3 Planetary boundaries
have been breached, and the inability to curb
greenhouse gas emissions compounds the risk of
bigger, harder, more devastating disasters. At the
same time, the benefits of globalization have also
made risk more complex. Systemic, cascading risk
is the underlying feature of today’s risk landscape.
These developments highlight the critical
importance of disaster risk reduction in protecting
lives, livelihoods, ecosystems and development
gains. Nothing undermines development like a
disaster. Reducing disaster risk and losses and
avoiding the creation of new risk are essential for
building a stable, sustainable and more resilient
world. Therefore, disaster risk reduction is a
vital ingredient in delivering the international
development agenda.
Reducing risk is critical to sustainable
development, and it is also indispensable in
reducing the humanitarian burden. The world is
stuck in a cycle of disaster–respond–repair–
repeat, and the costs associated with this pattern
are rising. Investing in risk reduction and building
resilience saves more than lives and livelihoods –
it also makes good financial sense.

1	
2	
3	
4	
5	

However, development assistance investments
in disaster risk reduction have been miniscule in
comparison to financing for disaster response.
A total of $5.2 billion for disaster risk reduction
represented only 3.8 per cent of total humanitarian
financing between 2005 and 2017 – less than $4
for every $100 spent.4 The United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) therefore
encourages increased international cooperation
to build resilience in areas that are most at risk, as
well as increased voluntary financial contributions
to UNDRR through the United Nations Trust Fund
for Disaster Risk Reduction, in line with the report
of the United Nations (UN) Secretary-General on
the implementation of the Sendai Framework.5
UNDRR is a focused organization mandated
to support countries in the implementation,
monitoring and reporting of the Sendai Framework,
and to promote disaster risk reduction within
the UN system. UNDRR works through partners,
within and outside the UN system, to leverage their
diverse expertise and country presence to deliver
results and longer-term impact.
As per the UNDRR work programme 2016–2019,
this 2019 Annual Report outlines how the work of
UNDRR contributes to reducing disaster risk at the
global, regional, national and local levels, curtailing
the cost of humanitarian action, safeguarding
development gains and ensuring that risk-informed

Aon plc, Weather & Climate Catastrophe Insight – 2019 Annual Report (Chicago, Aon plc, 2020). Available at http://
thoughtleadership.aon.com/Documents/20200122-if-natcat2020.pdf?utm_source=ceros&utm_medium=storypage&utm_
campaign=natcat20.
World Wildlife Fund, “Statement from WWF-Australia on Australia’s bushfire emergency”, 7 January 2020. Available at https://
www.wwf.org.au/news/news/2020/statement-from-wwf-australia-on-australia-s-bushfire-emergency.
World Meteorological Organization, WMO Provisional Statement on the State of the Global Climate in 2019 (Geneva, World
Meteorological Organization, 2019).
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction 2019
(Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://gar.undrr.org/sites/default/files/reports/2019-05/full_gar_report.pdf.
UN, General Assembly, Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, Report of the
Secretary-General, A/RES/73/268, 27 July 2018. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/resolutions/N1824255-en.
pdf

12 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

development contributes to the Transforming our World: the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda),
the Paris Agreement, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda on
Financing for Development, the New Urban Agenda and the
Agenda for Humanity.

STRENGTHEN GLOBAL MONITORING,
ANALYSIS AND COORDINATION OF SENDAI
FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION
UNDRR manages the Sendai Framework Monitor and
provides capacity development to ensure that the data
required to measure progress against the Sendai Framework
are systematically collected and analysed, and that global
coordination mechanisms are leveraged for the application
of these data to drive policy decisions to reduce disaster
risk. At the end of 2019, 130 Member and observer States
were using SFM to report on implementation of the 38
globally agreed Sendai Framework indicators.
UNDRR also works with experts, practitioners, businesses
and innovators to analyse the state of risk across the globe,
identify emerging issues and trends, and present progress
in risk reduction. These findings make up the Global
Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR). GAR
is known for breaking new ground on risk and challenging
prevailing norms. The 2019 version, GAR2019, moves
beyond disaster risk to consider the multidimensional nature
of risk. It discusses and applies systemic risk analysis to
emerging risk trends. It also provides information to a broad
range of stakeholders to facilitate risk-informed decisions
and implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
The Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF), launched
at the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, will
become a framework, a network and a resource where
decision makers can find information related to systemic
risk analysis and emerging trends that enable them to make
risk-smart decisions. GRAF challenges decision makers,
including governments and investors, as well as the risk
science community, to think and act differently about risk
by embedding a more complex understanding of risk at the
start of any investment. GRAF outputs will result in better
risk-informed strategies, plans, policies and investments,
and therefore improved and more sustainable development
outcomes and impact.
The sixth session of the Global Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction (GP2019) provided an opportunity to galvanize
political commitment and accelerate action among
diverse global stakeholders to support Sendai Framework
implementation and monitoring. GP2019 was informed by
recommendations from the 2018 UNDRR Regional and SubRegional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction in Armenia,
Colombia, Italy, Mongolia and Tunisia, among others. In
turn, GP2019 contributed to highlighting the relevance of
disaster risk reduction vis-à-vis sustainable development
as evidenced by the deliberations and outcome documents

of the 2019 High-level Political Forum on Sustainable
Development and the UN Climate Action Summit.

SUPPORT TO REGIONAL AND NATIONAL
SENDAI FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION
Throughout the year, UNDRR provided regional-, nationaland local-level support to the generation of disaggregated
loss and risk data, policy guidance for risk-informed
decision-making and the development of national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies in line with Target
(e), “Substantially increase the number of countries with
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies
by 2020”, of the Sendai Framework. UNDRR trained
4,087 government officials and disaster risk reduction
stakeholders globally in 2019.
UNDRR also improved stakeholder capacity to undertake
effective disaster risk reduction planning, implementation
and monitoring. In 2019, working with local, national
and regional organizations, together with UN Resident
Coordinators and Country Teams, UNDRR supported
the development and revision of disaster risk reduction
strategies and plans, as well as the monitoring of their
implementation. UNDRR prioritized action towards achieving
Target (e). As a result, at the end of 2019, 81 Member
and observer States reported the existence of a National
Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy in the SFM system.
UNDRR collaborated with regional intergovernmental
organizations to mainstream disaster risk reduction into
policies and programmes. UNDRR also supported its
regional partners to build coherence among different
global agendas. In line with the United Nations Plan of
Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience, in 2019,
UNDRR worked with the UN Sustainable Development
Group, UN Resident Coordinators and Country Teams to
ensure disaster risk reduction was integrated into the UN
Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework and
contributed to risk-informed Common Country Analyses and
planning processes based on risk data and evidence.
To complement these efforts, UNDRR also built the
capacity of countries to establish and maintain disaster
loss accounting systems, which form a strong basis
for a country’s assessment of risks and also serve as
essential information for the development of disaster risk
reduction strategies. At the end of 2019, an estimated 111
countries and territories were using the UNDRR-sponsored
DesInventar disaster loss database. One hundred of these
countries or territories have a database from which data can
be utilized for reporting on the targets and indicators of the
Sendai Framework and related UN Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs).

 | 13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

More than half of the world’s population lives in cities, and
this is expected to increase to two thirds by 2050.6 Ensuring
diverse stakeholders in cities, including local governments,
has the capacity to reduce disaster risk and build resilience,
which are crucial for making cities places where people
flourish and prosper. In 2019, UNDRR continued to prioritize
local-level disaster risk reduction through the Making Cities
Resilient Campaign. The number of cities engaged in this
campaign reached 4,311 by the end of 2019. To empower
local authorities to manage disaster risk better, UNDRR
provided support with tools, best practices and policy
guidance to implement the Sendai Framework. At the end of
2019, 237 local governments from 36 countries in five regions
had completed the Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities (a
local government self-assessment tool).

2019 Highlights

81
MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
REPORTED THE EXISTENCE OF A
NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
STRATEGY IN THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
MONITOR

Throughout 2019, UNDRR also supported risk-informed urban
development and planning; 40 cities in 22 countries have
completed local disaster risk reduction action plans. Most of
these plans have been endorsed for implementation. Some
cities, such as Greater Suva, Lautoka and Nadi (Fiji), Honiara
(Solomon Islands) and Kampala (Uganda), plan to integrate
their draft disaster risk reduction action plans with climate
change adaptation plans.

130
MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
USING THE SFM TO REPORT ON
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK

CATALYSE ACTION THROUGH MEMBER STATES
AND PARTNERS

4,311

UNDRR improved policy alignment across the international
development agenda for increased impact and effectiveness.
As a result of UNDRR’s advocacy efforts and policy inputs,
2019 saw greater political recognition that policy and
programmatic coherence with the Sendai Framework
is essential to achieving the major agreements related
to sustainable development and climate action. UNDRR
strengthened partnerships for coordinated action to address
disaster risk reduction with diverse stakeholders including the
private sector, science and technology partners, civil society,
community-based organizations, parliamentarians and other
key policy and decision makers.

CITIES PARTICIPATING IN THE MAKING
CITIES RESILIENT CAMPAIGN

237
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS FROM
36 COUNTRIES IN FIVE REGIONS
COMPLETED DISASTER RESILIENCE
SCORECARD SELF-ASSESSMENTS

This is evidenced in the intergovernmental deliberations and
policy-making outcomes at the United Nations Headquarters
in New York. At least 24 General Assembly resolutions covering issues such as sustainable development, climate
action, financing, biodiversity, least developed country
graduation, displacement, and human rights - adopted
language that strengthened disaster risk reduction policy
coherence or outlined new areas for policy development.
They also incorporate the recommendations of the Report
of the Secretary-General on the Implementation of the
Sendai Framework. The SDG Summit declaration reflected a
substantial political commitment to disaster risk reduction by
embedding the Sendai Framework in the Decade of Action.

4,087
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND DISASTER
RISK REDUCTION STAKEHOLDERS
TRAINED IN 2019 BY UNDRR, 39 PER
CENT OF WHICH WERE WOMEN
6	

14 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

UN, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization
Prospects: The 2018 Revision (New York, UN, 2019). Available at https://
population.un.org/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2018-Report.pdf

UNDRR also strengthened its efforts to promote risk
sensitive investments and business practices, particularly
in areas with direct links to the Sendai Framework targets.
The Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient Societies
(ARISE) continued to promote business resilience and a
risk-informed approach to investment decisions. Over the
course of 2019 ARISE was enhanced, including through the
Alliance’s role in supporting the roll-out of a new initiative on
strengthening the long-term resilience of small and medium
businesses (SMEs). UNDRR also produced guidance for the
private sector on how to better understand and implement
cost-benefit analysis of disaster risk reduction investments,
and how to support the implementation of the Sendai
Framework.
The Sendai Framework highlights the role of improved
disaster resilience, including that of infrastructure, as a
cornerstone for sustainable development. Recognizing
that resilient infrastructure is fundamental to reducing
risk and economic loss, UNDRR supported the launch of
the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, and
is working with the Government of India and partners to
reduce infrastructure loss and damage and enhance the
resilience of trillions of dollars of infrastructure investments.
By leveraging the expertise of diverse partnerships from
different sectors, UNDRR made important advances in
advocating for development that is sensitive to disaster risk,
shaping national and international policy and strengthening
the engagement of civil society and communities most at
risk in these efforts.
UNDRR continued to work with the Global Science and
Technology Advisory Group (G-STAG), regional STAGs and
members of the UNDRR Global Science and Technology
Partnership to promote a science base for effective disaster
risk reduction and risk-informed development.
UNDRR also launched the Stakeholder Engagement
Mechanism (SEM) in 2019. In just nine months, SEM has
grown to include 200 organizations committed to promoting
and integrating disaster and climate risk considerations
across the 2030 Agenda. This inclusive approach to disaster
risk reduction is helping to ensure that efforts to reduce
risk are informed by a spectrum of expertise and are more
effective.
Youth voices dominated the international climate change
agenda in 2019. Official Member State statements at
GP2019 stressed the need to engage children and youth,
emphasizing the principle of “leaving no one behind”. The
substantive youth participation in GP2019 was recognized
by the Secretary-General’s Office, which asked UNDRR to coorganize an event for the Youth Climate Action Summit. The
results were an interactive Climate Slam, youth participation
in the Member States’ segment of the Climate Action
Summit, follow-up discussions between youth and Member
States, and an invitation for youth to speak at an event led
by Member States following the summit.

UNDRR worked closely with parliamentarians and other
decision makers to advocate for development that is
disaster risk sensitive in political arenas. As a result of
this engagement, more Members of Parliament are now
committed to reducing disaster risk through their relevant
legislative, budgetary and oversight roles.
In 2019, through global advocacy, communication
campaigns and knowledge-sharing, UNDRR broke new
ground in highlighting the value of development that is
sensitive to disaster risk by demonstrating the strong
linkages among the Sendai Framework targets and those of
the 2030 Agenda and the climate action agenda.
The participation of the UN Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction at 25 highlevel events and field visits across the globe, including the
Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction, the Climate
Action Summit, the SDG Summit and the twenty-fifth
session of the Conference of the Parties, was leveraged
to support implementation of the Sendai Framework.
The release of three new Words into Action guides also
enhanced visibility of disaster risk reduction, particularly
among practitioners in national and local governments, the
private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and
civil society. There was strong backing from the SecretaryGeneral, notably on the International Day for Disaster Risk
Reduction and World Tsunami Awareness Day (WTAD). New
digital engagement activities, such as a first Facebook Live
session in support of WTAD, featuring youth, reached more
than 6,000 people, thus proving a growing appetite for risk
reduction stories and information.
UNDRR invested in developing content for its social media
channels in 2019, moving away from one-off event-driven
activities to developing sustained campaigns. The success
of this strategy was reflected in the doubling of Twitter
followers of the Special Representative of the SecretaryGeneral for Disaster Risk Reduction, with an audience reach
of 1.4 million, and an increase of more than 10 per cent in
unique users on PreventionWeb, the knowledge platform for
disaster risk reduction. UNDRR also strengthened effective
learning and access to technical knowledge among
diverse global stakeholders. NGOs working on disaster risk
reduction started to log their voluntary commitments in
the new Sendai Framework Voluntary Commitments online
platform, which allows diverse stakeholders to inform the
public about their work, share lessons learned and identify
areas for collaboration. In turn, UNDRR can monitor and take
stock of progress and achievements of stakeholders.
In 2019, UNDRR further strengthened its operational
efficiency by leveraging technology to improve resultsbased management and related planning, monitoring
and evaluation. UNDRR also continued to ensure human
resource management and staff development in line with
its commitment to the UN system-wide policy to improve
operational performance with a focus on results and impact.

 | 15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
1

©Unsplash/Rodion Kutsaev

Strengthen global monitoring,
analysis and coordination of Sendai
Framework implementation

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 1

Member States need to further improve systematic SFM
reporting. This is a key UNDRR priority. UNDRR used
the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction 2019
(GP2019)6 to consult stakeholders on the usability of SFM,
and, by offering space for engagement in learning labs,
helped participants to better understand and utilize global
indicators and application of custom targets and indicators
in their own contexts.

1.1

Government representatives attending GP2019 agreed that
Sendai Framework monitoring, especially with responsibility
shared across ministries, is successfully improving national
and local ownership of disaster risk reduction activities.
Monitoring data improves where UNDRR targets its activities
to progress Sendai Framework implementation, and also
feeds into global policy and stocktaking milestones such as
the High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development
and the UN Climate Action Summit.

GLOBAL PROGRESS OF THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK & RELATED SDG TARGETS
ASSESSED

Sendai Framework monitoring system

The Sendai Framework Monitor (SFM),1 which
is an online data platform, continues to support
United Nations (UN) Member States to report on
progress against the seven global targets of the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction
2015–2030 (Sendai Framework), through its 38
indictors. These indicators also feed into the
indicators of the Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) related to disaster risk reduction (SDG 1,2
SDG 113 and SDG 134 ). Customized targets and
indicators provide countries with an opportunity to
adapt the monitoring mechanism to their national
and local contexts to support implementation of
a disaster risk reduction strategy. An SFM data
analytics module provides clear status updates –
to Member States, the United Nations Office for
Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) and the general
public – on how countries are achieving the
targets of the Sendai Framework.
At the end of 2018, 88 Member States had started
reporting through SFM. By the end of 2019,
130 Member and observer States were using
the system to report on implementation of the
Sendai Framework. This demonstrates the strong
voluntary accountability of Member States to the
Sendai Framework.

1	
2	
3	
4	
5	

SFM supports Member States to make riskinformed policy decisions and resource allocation
to reduce current disaster risks and prevent
creating new risk. In September 2019, to further
support Member States in the collection, use
and analysis of data, the UNDRR Bonn Office
(Germany) held its second global Training of
Trainers on Sendai Framework monitoring and
disaster loss accounting. Twenty-five experts from
UNDRR partner organizations in different regions
participated in the training. There are now more
than 50 global experts who have the capacity to
provide technical support and training to Member
States and other stakeholders.

MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES USING THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK MONITOR

*

In November 2019, UNDRR hosted the 3rd
annual SFM Technical Forum in Bonn, which
identified technical assistance gaps and provided
space to share lessons learned. Seventy-five
participants from governments, intergovernmental
organizations, the UN and other technical partners
from 35 countries attended. In partnership with
the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center, UNDRR
launched an online learning course on the use
of SFM. This free online course is available to
all Member States to guide officials on how to
prepare and upload national and local data to
SFM.5

United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR), “Measuring implementation of the Sendai Framework”. Available
at https://sendaimonitor.unisdr.org/.
SDG 1: “End poverty in all its forms everywhere.”
SDG 11: “Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable.”
SDG 13: “Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts.”
UNDRR, “E-learning: orientation to using the online Sendai Framework Monitor”. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/
events/view/64762?id=64762.

18 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

As the custodian UN entity for indicators related to disaster
risk reduction under SDGs 1, 11 and 13, UNDRR actively
engaged with the Inter-agency and Expert Group on SDG
Indicators to ensure the relevant data informed the UN
Secretary-General’s report on SDGs and the Economic and
Social Council (ECOSOC) High-level Political Forum in July
2019. In addition, UNDRR, in collaboration with the UN
Statistics Division, the UN Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP), the UN Economic
Commission for Europe (UNECE), and the UN Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean prepared
the report of the Secretary-General on disaster-related
statistics, which was presented at the fiftieth session of
the UN Statistical Commission in March 2019. Based on
recommendations of the UN Statistical Commission, UNDRR
and partners are working towards a formal mechanism to
advance a common framework on disaster-related statistics
under the purview of the Commission. A network of expert
communities will be established to sustain cooperation,
coordination and fundraising for enhancing hazard- and
disaster-related statistics.

1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

6	

UNDRR, “Global platform for disaster risk reduction”. Available at https://www.unisdr.org/conference/2019/globalplatform/home.

 | 19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 1

Grand total

130
Europe

Asia-Pacific

Arab States

Americas-Caribbean

Africa

“I always say that it is really difficult to
get attention on the events that are not
happening due to good disaster risk
reduction or disaster preparedness.
There is always much more attention
when a disaster happens. As I
understand it, the number of fatalities
in disasters is declining globally but
there are more people affected and
economic losses are rising. States are
better prepared than they used to be
but in many low- and middle-income
countries experiencing disaster
losses there needs to be more focus
on strengthening institutions and
governance. This is a key concern for
us now as we develop a new strategy
for prevention in our international
development policy.

GLOBAL RISK DATA, ANALYSIS AND
POLICY ADVICE GENERATED

Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction
UNDRR has published Global Assessment
Reports on Disaster Risk Reduction (GARs)7 since
2009. This a series of analytical publications
focused on disaster risk trends, progress and
challenges. GAR serves as a research, advocacy
and policy engagement tool for supporting
the implementation of the Sendai Framework.
It supports improved coherence with the
Transforming our World: the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda), the
Paris Agreement, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda
on Financing for Development, the New Urban
Agenda and the Agenda for Humanity.

43

27

15

19

UNDRR has been very good at
including the private sector in its work
and this was the subject of a very
interesting session at the last Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction
where KLP, Norway’s largest pension
company, presented on their work
collecting data on the exposure of
companies listed on the Oslo stock
exchange to disaster and climate risk.
There is a clear opportunity to combine
this data set with the disaster loss data
being collected through the Sendai
Framework Monitor.”

26

Number of Member/observer States

Region

MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
USING THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
MONITOR

1.2	

As of 31 December 2019

20 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

The 2019 version, GAR2019,8 is the first edition
of GAR produced since the Sendai Framework
was adopted in 2015. It presents the first review
of countries’ efforts on Sendai Framework
implementation, with a special focus on Target
(e).9 The report also highlights the complexity
of risk and provides examples of systemic risks
that societies must manage, moving beyond
disaster risk to consider the multidimensional
nature of risk. It discusses and applies a
systemic risk analysis to emerging risk trends,
providing information to Member States and
key stakeholders when making risk-informed
decisions and implementing the 2030 Agenda.
In response to stakeholder requests, a chapter in

GAR2019 addresses the complexity of drought
risk, providing a compelling illustration of systemic
risk, and anticipates the forthcoming GAR Special
Report on Drought (to be published in 2021).
A robust and academic approach to producing
GAR2019 facilitated a comprehensive picture
of risk and inclusive analysis of risk trends
and patterns. At the same time, the network of
contributing partners established to produce
the report has had a significant multiplier effect
in outreach. In 2019, UNDRR regional offices in
Africa, the Arab States, and Latin America and
the Caribbean initiated the production of regional
risk assessment reports, which will improve the
integration of risk information into policy design
and decision-making at regional and national
levels.
The development of GAR2022 also started in
2019. The GAR Advisory Board agreed to further
develop the understanding of systemic risk and
the collective and interdependent solutions
required to address these risks, as well as to
explore progress in the implementation of the
Sendai Framework and SDGs. The trade-off in
achieving sustainable development outcomes
while creating resilience in a changing climate will
also be examined.

Erling Kvernevik
Sendai Framework Focal Point, senior adviser and
representative on the Warsaw International Mechanism
for Loss and Damage, Government of Norway

7	
8	
9	

UNDRR, “Global assessment report”. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/sendai-framework/gar.
UNDRR, Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction 2019 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://gar.undrr.org/
sites/default/files/reports/2019-05/full_gar_report.pdf.
Target (e): “Substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020.”

 | 21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 1

Disaster risk reduction in complex risk contexts
and elements of integrated risk governance
Managing complex risks while also governing the
everyday aspects of life and encouraging socioeconomic
development can seem remote and theoretical. It can also
be hard to imagine what success looks like in the face of
so many demands. The scenario of a fictional coastal delta
city, Drecca-Susdev, which has taken a systems approach to
managing risk offers an illustrative scenario.

It is selective – it may even appear futuristic – but it is
based on careful expert thought and is offered as an
exercise of imagination towards “the future we want”.

WHAT WILL SUCCESS LOOK LIKE IN THE FICTIONAL CITY OF DRECCA-SUSDEV?
Energy
...decentralized solar
and hydro support grid

Health, housing and
wellbeing
...safe building,
social housing, green
infrastructure

Waste management and
environmental protection
...treated effluent,
recycling, solid waste
managed

Transport,
communications and
other infrastructure
...climate and disaster
resilient structures and
systems

Many coastal delta cities face seasonal flood risk, cyclonic
wind and storm surge, and potentially seismic and tsunami
risk. They are looking to a future of sea-level rise and
increased weather extremes due to climate change, coupled
with the socioeconomic challenges of rapid population
growth, increased exposure and vulnerability, building and
construction, energy needs, risk of environmental pollution,
pressures on waste management, water and food resources,
transport and communications systems, as well as the
urgent global need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
to mitigate climate change. Meeting these challenges and
moving towards risk-informed sustainable development
requires an understanding of the interrelationships among
systems and subsystems, within local area planning and
risk governance, and aligned with national socioeconomic
development planning.
The figure illustrates some elements of integrated risk
governance in the fictional coastal delta city, Drecca-Susdev.
These include:

1.	RISK REDUCTION FOR FLOOD, LAND-SLIDES
AND SEA INUNDATION:
•	 Revegetation and/or engineering stabilizes land-slideprone areas

•	 Smaller more numerous dams reduce flood risk from dam
failure
•	 Homes, businesses and sensitive infrastructure are kept
off flood-plains and the coastal foreshore, or raised/
adapted to seasonal flooding/storms and built to relevant
codes
•	 Flood-plains and coastal foreshore are reserved for
recreation, and for vegetation that absorbs flood waters or
sea storm impacts
•	 Mechanical or built barriers reduce impact and/or divert
flood waters or storm surges

2.	EARLY WARNING SYSTEMS (EWSS):

•	 EWSs for flood and land-slide risk based on weather
forecasts, recorded rainfall and intensity, and for
monitoring upstream river levels, allow for flood mitigation
through controlled dam releases, opening/closing of flood
gates/levees around the city and evacuation response
when needed
•	 EWSs for sea storms, hurricanes and/or tsunami,
based on weather forecasts, seismic activity and other
monitoring including regional/global systems allow for
evacuation and use of mechanical barriers as needed

3.	HEALTH, HOUSING AND WELL-BEING:
Early warning systems
(EWS)
...forecasts, monitoring,
action plan

Water supply system
...diverse reserves, floodproof supply, recycled
water

Food supply system
...flood plain and urban
production, resilient supply
chains

Risk reduction for flood,
landslides and sea
inundation
...vegetation, levees, nobuild zones

•	 Medium- to high-density residential buildings on safe land
include social housing, comply with updated codes for
relevant risks, have water and sanitation, have access to
health, welfare and education facilities, and give access to
fire and emergency services
•	 “Green infrastructure” gardens and trees cool the city,

improve health and provide space for recreation and
cultural pursuits
•	 Walking and cycling route networks improve safety and
health, and reduce air pollution from vehicles

4.	WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM:

•	 Multiple small dams give redundancy in water supply for
farms and city, increasing drought resilience across the
territory
•	 Potable water systems, pumps and treatment are floodproofed
•	 Water is reused and recycled in the city, with a back-up
energy source

5.	FOOD SUPPLY SYSTEM:

•	 Flood-plains are preserved for crops that use seasonal
flooding that also regenerates fertile soil
•	 Flow-of-the-river dams allow fish breeding
•	 Urban agriculture on balconies and rooftops boosts
access to fresh produce; high-density commercial
aquaponics food production combines plant and
fish nutrient needs to reduce ocean overfishing and
agricultural nitrogen run-off
•	 Resilient transport and communications maintain local
and regional food supply chains

6.	WASTE MANAGEMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL
PROTECTION:

•	 All storm water run-off and human and industrial refuse
and effluent is treated so that clean water is released into
the land and marine environments
•	 Recycling of materials is maximized
•	 Solid waste is managed city wide

7.	 TRANSPORT, COMMUNICATIONS AND OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE:

•	 Bridges and roads are elevated and built strong enough to
withstand more-extreme weather events and sea-level rise
•	 Risk-assessed dedicated public transport is separate from
the road system
•	 Disaster-proofed communications infrastructure increases
resilience of all other city systems, including energy and
supply chains
•	 Transport and communications systems are designed
to reduce cyberrisk with flexible system responses and
redundancy

8.	ENERGY:

•	 Small-scale hydro-dams supply local areas, and link into
the power grid
•	 Decentralized solar photovoltaics on city rooftops that
heat, cool and power buildings, and which include energy
storage and charging for electrical vehicles, reduce the
need for major new investment in power distribution and
increase resilience to grid system failures

Source: GAR2019 (https://gar.undrr.org/)

22 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 1

Global Risk Assessment Framework
To reduce disaster risk effectively and efficiently, the
international community must understand the main drivers
of risk, their likelihood and impact. UNDRR launched the
Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF)10 at GP2019,
in response to the need identified by expert communities
for innovation in research, science and assessment of the
nature of risk – consistent with the expanded scope of
hazards and risks included in the Sendai Framework and
2030 Agenda.
Most risk models draw on historical data and observations
while taking a hazard-by-hazard approach, assuming the
past is a reasonable guide to inform what risks exist in
the present and future. However, dramatic changes in the
climate and the dynamic connectedness of systems require
the international community to revisit assumptions about
the relationship between past and future risk and the nature
of systemic risk.

GRAF is a network and platform that provides robust
information to support better solutions for risk-informed
sustainable development. It facilitates collaboration across
disciplines, geographies, the risk science community and
users of risk information – bringing natural and social
sciences together with donors, investors and industry.
GRAF challenges decision makers, including governments
and investors, as well as the risk science community that
informs them, to think and act differently about risk by
embedding a more complex understanding of risk at the
start of any investment or development action. Outputs from
GRAF operationalization will result in better risk-informed
strategies, plans and investments and therefore improved
and more sustainable development outcomes and impact.

1.3

GLOBAL COORDINATION AND
ACCOUNTABILITY MECHANISMS
CONVENED

Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction 2019
The Global Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction provide
an accountability mechanism and catalyse political
commitment and action to support Sendai Framework
implementation and monitoring. UNDRR convened
GP2019 in Geneva in May 2019, hosted by the Government
of Switzerland. It brought together more than 3,000
stakeholders from 182 countries, and it was the most
inclusive and accessible multi-stakeholder Global Platform
for Disaster Risk Reduction to date. Half of the session
speakers and 40 per cent of participants were women –
amplifying the voice of female leaders. GP2019 was also
the most accessible Global Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction, with more than 120 persons with disabilities in
attendance.
GP2019 was also the first Global Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction to feature an Innovation Platform, showcasing
more than 80 applications of new and innovative disaster
risk reduction approaches and learning labs that provided
participants with an opportunity to enhance knowledge in
key disaster risk reduction topics.

©UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

Building on recommendations from the 2018 UNDRR
Regional and Sub-Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk
Reduction hosted by the Governments of Armenia,
Colombia, Italy, Mongolia and Tunisia, GP2019 called for
accelerated action in achieving the seven Sendai Framework
global targets and to build coherence among the various
global policy agendas.
The GP2019 focus on Resilience Dividend: Toward
Sustainable and Inclusive Societies contributed to
highlighting the relevance of disaster risk reduction for
achieving sustainable development as evidenced by the
deliberations and outcome documents of the 2019 Highlevel Political Forum on Sustainable Development and the
Climate Action Summit.

10	 UNDRR, “Global risk assessment framework”. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/disaster-risk/graf

24 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
2

©EU-ECHO/Xaume Olleros

Support to regional and national
Sendai Framework implementation

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

2.1

REGIONAL & NATIONAL COORDINATION
MECHANISMS LEVERAGED TO MONITOR
& ACCELERATE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
Partnerships with regional and national organizations

In 2019, UNDRR continued to support regional
organizations to develop and monitor the
implementation of national, subregional and
regional disaster risk reduction strategies. UNDRR
also collaborated with regional intergovernmental
organizations to mainstream disaster risk
reduction into their policies and programmes
through strategic contributions to policy papers,
consultations and capacity development. As
a result of UNDRR support, regional partners
advocated for the integration of disaster risk
reduction into the 2030 Agenda, the Paris
Agreement and other relevant international
agendas.
In the Africa Region, cooperation among UNDRR,
the African Union Commission (AUC) and Regional
Economic Communities (RECs) supported
implementation of the Africa Strategy and
Programme of Action for disaster risk reduction,
which was adopted in 2016. The Africa Working
Group, platforms for disaster risk reduction and
other thematic platforms provided mechanisms
for partners to support the Programme of Action.
As the Secretariat for the Africa Working Group
on Disaster Risk Reduction (AWGDRR), UNDRR
organized activities to strengthen risk knowledge
and disaster risk governance in the southern
African countries affected by Cyclones Idai
and Kenneth, including a special session at the
15th AWGDRR: Progress and Next Steps: Relief,
Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction
Efforts in Addressing the Impacts of Tropical
Cyclones Idai and Kenneth. Participants
recognized the importance of Multi-Hazard Early
28 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Warning Systems (MHEWS) and the need for a
framework for African Union (AU) intervention
during a disaster. The working group agreed
to establish and operationalize a continental
and regional MHEWS, with information-sharing
mechanisms to link early warning information
with early action and to improve outreach to
communities, including by engaging the media.
UNDRR delivered workshops on improving
availability, access and use of disaster risk
information for early warning and action, as
well as transboundary risk management to help
stakeholders develop their own road maps.
UNDRR has ensured a focus on the development
and implementation of an inclusive approach
to EWSs and has provided a methodology and
capacity-building tools for beneficiaries to
enhance their ownership and sustainability of the
entire process. Member States, Regional Climate
Centres and UNDRR are expected to contribute to
the AUC and REC longer-term process, leading to
the eventual establishment and operationalization
of a MHEWS system with continental coverage.
In 2019, the UNDRR Regional Office in Africa also
enhanced its partnerships with AUC and RECs
to support engagement with Member States
to monitor Sendai Framework implementation.
Regional and national training on SFM was
organized to address capacity gaps in monitoring
and data collection. By the end of 2019, 77 per
cent of the countries in the region had a national
SFM coordinator and 25 countries in sub-Saharan
Africa had initiated the reporting process.

UNDRR presented SFM, including the roles and
responsibilities of national stakeholders, reporting
deadlines and lessons learned in the region, at an AUCconvened workshop. As a result, countries are gathering
data and reporting to AUC on five additional regional
targets and related indicators, in addition to the Sendai
Framework’s seven global targets. UNDRR works closely
with RECs to analyse the progress of implementation
of the regional disaster risk reduction strategies, mainly
through engagement with key stakeholders during the Africa
Regional Platform and with the Africa Working Group.
In the Americas and the Caribbean Region, UNDRR
worked with several regional organizations to support
the development and implementation of regional disaster
risk reduction strategies and plans. These organizations
included the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management
Agency (CDEMA) of the Caribbean Community, the
Coordination Centre for the Prevention of Natural Disasters
in Central America (CEPREDENAC) of the Central American
Integration System, the Andean Committee for Disaster
Prevention and Assistance of the Andean Community
of Nations, and the Meeting of Ministers and High-level
Authorities on Comprehensive Disaster Risk Management of
the Southern Common Market.
CEPREDENAC finalized and approved its regional
comprehensive risk management plan for the period 2019–
2023. Strong engagement of UNDRR in the process ensured
that the plan was well aligned with the Sendai Framework.
UNDRR and CDEMA worked together to finalize harmonized
indicators of the Caribbean Disaster Management Strategy
and the Sendai Framework to support the coherent
development of 14 country work programmes. These work
programmes serve as the disaster risk reduction strategies
for countries in the Caribbean, and are an integral part of the
implementation at the country level of the Comprehensive
Disaster Management Strategy of the Caribbean.
In the Arab States Region, UNDRR organized two regional
partnership meetings with the League of Arab States
to convene governments and stakeholders to review
progress made on disaster risk reduction in the region and
agree on how to best accelerate efforts to implement the
Sendai Framework and the Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk
Reduction. The meetings focused on achieving Target (e) in
the region by the end of 2020. The meetings were catalysts
for stakeholders and partners to support governments to
implement the Sendai Framework in the region. Two new
stakeholder groups, the Arab Local Government Advisory
Stakeholder Group and the Arab Media Group for Disaster
Risk Reduction, expressed interest in supporting the
ongoing regional efforts. As a result of these meetings,
Lebanon, Morocco and the United Arab Emirates finalized
their national disaster risk reduction strategies, which
are pending formal endorsement by their respective
governments.

In the Asia Pacific Region, UNDRR works closely with
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to
harness its regional influence in mainstreaming disaster risk
reduction in South East Asia. As the lead for the prevention
and mitigation pillar of the ASEAN-UN Joint Strategic Plan
of Action on Disaster Management, UNDRR organized
the first ASEAN Technical Consultation on Risk-Informed
Sustainable Development. The consultation brought
together managers from 20 ASEAN divisions to introduce
them to the value of risk proofing their sectoral plans. As a
result, ASEAN Secretariat managers were able to identify
risks to the ASEAN Vision 2025, the means to address them,
and opportunities for collaboration with their own disaster
management and humanitarian assistance divisions. The
consultation will inform the development of the 2021–2025
work programme of the ASEAN Agreement on Disaster
Management and Emergency Response, which is a
legally binding regional instrument related to disaster risk
reduction. The ASEAN Secretariat and UNDRR have agreed
to make a paradigm shift from reactive crises management
to proactive risk management, and to embed risk into
development planning and implementation.
All eight member States of the South Asian Association for
Regional Cooperation (SAARC) participated in a workshop,
on how to strengthen Sendai Framework alignment
of the SAARC Comprehensive Framework on Disaster
Management and enhance regional and national capacities
for implementing key aspects of the regional strategy. The
workshop strengthened the capacity of the participating
member States and resulted in a plan to update and align
the SAARC disaster risk management framework to the
Sendai Framework. Once implemented, the plan will ensure
a more proactive regional framework that can support
member States in navigating changing risk dynamics,
including the impact of climate change.
In the Europe Region, UNDRR works closely with European
institutions to drive the disaster risk reduction agenda. In
2019, the Regional Office for Europe co-organized, with the
European Commission’s Directorate-General for European
Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations (DG
ECHO), the first joint meeting on disaster risk reduction.
The meeting brought together National Sendai Framework
Focal Points from 25 European Union (EU) member
States, Union Civil Protection Mechanism (UCPM) disaster
prevention experts and representatives from European
Commission services. This joint event provided a platform
for sharing experiences and identifying opportunities to
reinforce coherence among the Sendai Framework and EU
frameworks, for a stronger disaster risk reduction agenda
across the region. Sessions explored synergies between
prevention activities under UCPM and activities coordinated
by National Sendai Framework Focal Points in implementing
and monitoring the Sendai Framework. UNDRR also
partnered with DG ECHO on a joint initiative to address riskinformed financing and engagement of the private sector in
disaster risk reduction in Europe, as well as in the context of
global development and humanitarian response.

 | 29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

As part of its broader engagement with the presidency of
the Council of the EU, UNDRR actively contributed to the
Civil Protection Programme of the Romanian and Finnish
governments, which held the presidency in 2019. UNDRR
helped to frame the priorities defined by the presidencies
in the context of the disaster risk reduction agenda and

the Sendai Framework. UNDRR also reinforced the debate
around new and emerging risks in Europe, in particular
complex risks and high-impact low-likelihood risks.
A dedicated initiative was launched and successfully
completed under the Finnish presidency of the Council
of the EU, in which UNDRR collaborated with the Finnish
Ministry of the Interior and the Centre of Excellence for
Countering Hybrid Threats to develop a stress test tool for
disaster risk reduction capabilities in the face of complex
scenarios. This initiative was introduced to the European
Council Working Party for Civil Protection, and is planned to
be piloted in Finland in 2020.

Collaboration with the United Nations system at regional and national levels
The United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction
for Resilience11 emphasizes national- and local-level
engagement to ensure the UN system is responsive to
different country needs and contexts regarding disaster risk.
UNDRR strives to ensure that disaster risks are factored
into UN country-level programmes and activities, as well as
those at the regional level.
In 2019, the UN development system reform process
provided a strategic opportunity for UNDRR to drive
coherent action towards the implementation of the Sendai
Framework by UN system partners. As a result of UNDRR
engagement, risk reduction was incorporated into key UN
mechanisms, including the process for developing the
UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
(Cooperation Framework), Common Country Analyses,
UN climate-security mechanisms and humanitarian–
development–peace collaboration. Throughout the year,
UNDRR collaborated with the UN Sustainable Development
Group, UN Resident Coordinators and UN Country Teams to
ensure that planning processes and related analysis were
based on risk data and evidence.
In the Africa Region, UNDRR supported Angola, the Congo,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ethiopia, Liberia,
Mali, Sierra Leone and South Africa to develop their
Cooperation Frameworks. Based on technical guidance
from UNDRR, the development of these frameworks was
standardized, using common guidelines to mainstream
disaster risk reduction.
In the case of Angola, UNDRR support resulted in a
dedicated outcome and accompanying budget entitled
Environment and Resilience of the Vulnerable Population:
By 2022, the Vulnerable Population is Resilient to Climate
Change and Disaster Risk. By the end of 2019, some UN
agencies had already mobilized funding for this outcome.
Angola’s disaster risk profile on droughts and floods,
finalized with support from UNDRR in 2019, influenced

development of its Cooperation Framework, particularly
the outcomes related to disaster risk reduction and climate
change adaptation.
UNDRR also participated in Kenya’s UN Development
Assistance Framework (UNDAF) 2018–2022 Annual Review
and Planning Retreat. Kenya’s UNDAF has one outcome
related to disaster risk reduction under the framework’s
Strategic Priority 2 – Human Capital Development: By
2022, Individuals and Communities in Kenya have Reduced
Exposure to Risks and are more Resilient to Disasters and
Emergencies.

change adaptation and disaster risk reduction based on risk
knowledge and evidence.
In the Asia Pacific Region, as a member of the regional
Peer Support Group, UNDRR provided technical advice on
how to assess risk and integrate disaster risk reduction
into the Common Country Analyses, underpinning the
development of new Cooperation Frameworks in the
region. In 2019, UNDRR ensured that risk and resilience
were considered when the Common Country Analyses for
Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malaysia and Timor-Leste were
revised. UNDRR also engaged with the UN Country Team
in Iran and the Lao People’s Democratic Republic during
their UNDAF midterm reviews to mainstream disaster risk
and related capacity development into the recommended
revisions. In Bangladesh, the UNDRR regional office and
the Global Education and Training Institute (GETI) helped
to pilot the Strategic Approach to Capacity Development
for Disaster Risk Reduction as part of the formulation of
the new Cooperation Framework. As a result, a disaster
risk management governance review was initiated and a
UN Country Team–government analysis on institutional
and financial capacities and gaps for implementation was
undertaken.
UNDRR also coordinated and consolidated the disaster

and climate resilience programming element of the new
joint country action plans (JCAPs) for the Pacific. The
development of these JCAPs strengthens coordinated
UN support at the national level based on jointly agreed
priorities under the existing regional UN Pacific Strategy.
UNDRR supported the development of JCAPs in the
Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, Marshall Islands, Palau
and Tuvalu.
In 2019, the UNDRR Regional Office for Europe engaged
UN Country Teams in the region to ensure that Cooperation
Frameworks were risk informed and addressed natural
and human-induced hazards. UNDRR provided UN Country
Teams with a package of strategic and analytical disaster
risk reduction documents that informed the Common
Country Analyses. The Regional Office for Europe was
actively engaged in ensuring that the Common Country
Analyses reflected disaster risk reduction priorities. In
addition, governments and National Sendai Framework
Focal Points were engaged to discuss disaster risk
reduction priorities for the next four-year cycle to
increase understanding of the complexity of current and
potential interacting hazards and risks. Based on the
agreed development priorities articulated in Cooperation
Frameworks, disaster risk reduction measures will now be
implemented in many countries in the region.

UNDRR is a member of the UN Economic Commission for
Africa Humanitarian Matters and Disaster Risk Management
Cluster, and was engaged in developing the AU–UN
workplan for 2019–2020, which is aligned with the AU
strategic priorities and includes activities for strengthening
regional coordination for disaster risk reduction. UNDRR is
working closely with partners, including AUC, to mobilize
additional resources to ensure implementation of the
workplan.
In the Americas and the Caribbean Region, UNDRR worked
with the UN Sustainable Development Group for Latin
America and the Caribbean through issue-based coalitions
(IBCs), which act as regional task forces to facilitate
cooperation and response to cross-cutting challenges in
the region. UNDRR co-chairs two IBCs in the region: the
Regional Inter-Agency Resilience Group, aimed at enhancing
coordination of disaster risk reduction efforts among
UN agencies in the region, and the Climate Change and
Resilience IBC. Through engagement in these coalitions in
2019, UNDRR successfully ensured a disaster risk reduction
agenda coherent with climate change action in countries
across the Andean region and the southern cone of South
America. In addition, UNDRR has engaged stakeholders in
the region to support and advocate for the implementation
of a risk-informed 2030 Agenda and enhance climate

©UNICEF_NEPAL/Narendra Shrestha

Through close collaboration, UNDRR engaged the European
Commission in the UNDRR 2019 Training of Trainers
on Sendai Framework Monitoring and Disaster Loss
Data, which reinforced support to EU member States in
monitoring Sendai Framework targets and developing
disaster loss accounting systems.

11	UN, United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience: Towards a Risk-informed and Integrated Approach to Sustainable
Development (Geneva, UN, 2017). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/49076_unplanofaction.pdf.

30 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

2.2

SENDAI FRAMEWORK TARGET (E): 81 MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES REPORTED THE
EXISTENCE OF A NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION STRATEGY IN THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
MONITOR

NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
STRATEGIES & PLANS DEVELOPED
IN LINE WITH SENDAI FRAMEWORK
PRESCRIBED GUIDANCE

*

Disaster loss and risk data

Europe

Asia-Pacific

Arab States

Through regional offices and the office in Bonn,
UNDRR continued providing technical support
to countries to establish, maintain and update
DesInventar,12 the most widely used disaster loss
database, currently used in an estimated 111
countries and territories globally. One hundred of
these countries or territories have a DesInventar
database from which data can be utilized for
reporting on the targets and indicators of the
Sendai Framework and related SDGs.

Americas-Caribbean

Africa

COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES
USING DESINVENTAR DISASTER
LOSS DATABASES ALIGNED WITH
THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
Region

Countries need national disaster loss data to
establish baselines to monitor Sendai Framework
implementation and SDG common targets. UNDRR
played a key role in building the capacity of
countries to establish and maintain disaster loss
accounting systems, which form a strong basis
for a country’s assessment of risk and also serve
as essential information for the development of
disaster risk reduction strategies and investment
decisions at the local and national levels.

National and local disaster risk reduction strategies

10

32

10

22

26

Number of countries/territories

Grand total

100

As of 31 December 2019

12	 UNDRR, “DesInventar Sendai”. Available at https://www.desinventar.net/

32 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

National and local disaster risk reduction strategies are
essential for implementing and monitoring a country’s
risk reduction priorities. In 2019, working with local,
national and regional organizations, together with UN
Resident Coordinators and Country Teams, UNDRR
supported the development and revision of disaster risk
reduction strategies, as well as the monitoring of their
implementation. These strategies set implementation
milestones, established key roles and responsibilities of
government and non-government actors, and identified
technical and financial resources. In 2019, UNDRR prioritized
action towards meeting Sendai Framework Target (e), which
calls for these strategies to be established. As a result, at
the end of 2019, 81 Member and observer States reported
the existence of a National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy
in the SFM system.

The links among disaster risk reduction and the post2015 development agreements create opportunities to:
build global coherence and foster risk-informed policy and
decision-making, promote multi-hazard and cross-sectoral
approaches to assessing risk, and encourage a deeper
understanding of social and environmental vulnerability
across sectors and levels of government.
GP2019 provided a key opportunity to review progress on
meeting Target (e) and consult the disaster risk reduction
community on effective methods to develop, implement and
monitor disaster risk reduction strategies.
To support countries in implementing Target (e), UNDRR
produced a new Words into Action (WiA) guide: Developing
National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies,13 which
complemented another WiA guide: Local Disaster Risk
Reduction and Resilience Strategies.14

13	 UNDRR, Developing National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/65095_
wianationaldrrstrategies10052019.pdf.
14	 UNDRR, Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Strategies (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/
files/57399_57399localdrrandresiliencestrategie.pdf.

 | 33

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

Grand total

81

Europe

Programme, the UN Human Settlement Programme (UNHabitat), United Nations Framework Convention on Climate

Change (UNFCCC) and UN Women also took part. UNDRR
also organized regional SFM training for national disaster
risk reduction coordinators and statistical offices from 42
countries, which focused on the role of SFM in developing a
disaster risk reduction strategy monitoring framework.
Drawing on one of the recommendations of the multicountry peer-learning workshops in July 2019, the Regional
Office for Africa organized a national peer-learning
exchange for policy coherence in Malawi. This activity
supported the work of the recently established National
Technical Committee on Climate Change and Disaster Risk
Management, and enhanced coherence between disaster
risk reduction and climate change adaptation activities,
notably through the national adaptation plan process
in the country. Entry points and next steps identified by
participants included: ensuring better coordination in
planning and programme design and undertaking more
coordinated analysis; developing coherent financing plans
that address disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation; and increasing collaboration in designing
indicators and monitoring frameworks for disaster risk
reduction and climate change adaptation. This workshop
coincided with a training workshop on SFM in Malawi to
improve collaboration across sectors on data collection,
monitoring and reporting on disaster impact following the
2019 Malawi floods.

26

16

Asia-Pacific

Arab States

12

Americas-Caribbean

10

Africa

17

Number of Member/observer States

Region

MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
REPORTING THE EXISTENCE
OF A NATIONAL DISASTER RISK
REDUCTION STRATEGY IN THE
SENDAI FRAMEWORK MONITOR

In the Africa Region, UNDRR supported efforts to
substantially increase the number of countries with national
and local disaster risk reduction strategies in the region.
Training based on UNDRR WiA guide Developing National
Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies was conducted for 17
countries from the Economic Community for West African
States and the Economic Community of Central African
States. Representatives from 12 countries were engaged
in peer-learning exchanges focused on policy coherence
among SDGs, climate change adaptation and disaster
risk reduction. Partners from AUC, EU, the International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC),
RECs, United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
UN Economic Commission for Africa, UN Environment

As of 31 December 2019

In March 2019, five African cities – Praia (Cabo Verde),
Yaoundé (Cameroon), Dire Dawa (Ethiopia), Kisumu
(Kenya) and Kampala (Uganda) – participated in the GETI
Experience Sharing Workshop – Making Cities Sustainable
and Resilient. Cities and national governments subsequently
requested support to scale up the disaster risk reduction
assessments and strategies. As a result of support
provided by UNDRR within the context of the Making Cities
Resilient (MCR) Campaign,15 the city of Praia and the
national government officials of Cabo Verde discussed
decentralization of disaster risk reduction in line with the
national disaster risk reduction strategy and strengthened
vertical and horizontal resilience linkages.
15	 UNDRR, “Making cities resilient: my city is getting ready”. Available at
https://www.unisdr.org/campaign/resilientcities/.

34 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Kampala has developed an Integrated Disaster Risk
Reduction and Climate Change Resilience Strategy and
prioritized efforts to reduce the impact of persistent
flooding in the city. UNDRR supported the validation
workshop, together with the World Bank. The leadership
of Kampala remains committed to disaster risk reduction
and has built strategic peer partnerships, including with the
city of Incheon, Republic of Korea, contributing to an interlearning workshop, organized and hosted by Incheon.
By the end of 2019, 8 countries in the Americas and the
Caribbean Region had finalized and made publicly available
a national disaster risk reduction strategy, and 17 others
were in the process of formal approval. UNDRR collaborated
with CDEMA to harmonize the Comprehensive Disaster
Management Strategy of the Caribbean with the Sendai
Framework. Support continued to small island developing
States (SIDS) in the Caribbean with 14 national strategies
directly supported by UNDRR and CDEMA. The status of
national disaster risk reduction strategies in these countries
was then assessed to inform the nature of technical
assistance that should be provided by UNDRR in 2020.
In 2019, the Brazilian municipalities of São José do Rio
Preto and Vinhedo validated their local disaster risk
reduction action plans. UNDRR also worked with the UN
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in the city
of Cusco (Peru) to develop a local disaster risk reduction
strategy, with a focus on heritage protection. In the
Caribbean, a workshop with representatives from the cities
of Kingston and Montego Bay (Jamaica) was carried out.
The aim was to finalize local disaster risk reduction plans
for both cities before the Regional Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction for the Americas and the Caribbean hosted by
Jamaica in 2020.
In 2019, in the Arab States Region, UNDRR organized
national consultations in Lebanon and Mauritania to
support finalization of their national disaster risk reduction
strategies for further endorsement by their respective
cabinet offices. A national consultation workshop was
organized in Qatar to initiate work on the development of
its strategy in line with the WiA guide Developing National
Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies.
Through a project focused on enhancing the resilience
of vulnerable communities in urban settings, the UNDRR
Regional Office for Arab States, in collaboration with UNDP
in Mauritania and Tunisia, provided technical support
to develop disaster risk reduction action plans based
on the MCR scorecard preliminary assessments and
in-depth risk assessments in 10 cities. The preliminary
scorecard assessment was conducted in all 10 cities,
while resilience action plans and in-depth assessments
were conducted in five cities (Kaédi, Rosso and Tevragh
Zeina in Mauritania, and Gabès and Mateur in Tunisia).
Linkages between the UNDRR “Ten Essentials” for the MCR
Campaign and a human security approach were explored,
including assessing the policy and planning, engineering,
organizational, financial, social and environmental aspects

of disaster resilience. A clear connection was established
between the low disaster resilience levels and the weak
human security dimensions in these cities.
Capacity-building workshops and consultations with
national and local governments and relevant stakeholders
were subsequently held to address the gaps and challenges
and pave the way for development and implementation
of local resilience action plans. UNDRR facilitated a cityto-city technical exchange workshop with Potenza and
Viggiano in Italy (both MCR role model cities) to promote
knowledge-sharing and dissemination of best practices
among local governments from the 10 pilot cities. As
a result, a set of recommendations was provided to
guide the cities in disaster risk reduction planning and
implementation, including on the importance of developing
a clear stakeholder engagement strategy, increasing public
awareness and civic engagement in disaster risk reduction
planning and implementation, promoting human security,
and improving risk assessment and hazard mapping. With
UNDRR support, Gabès, Kaédi, Mateur, Rosso and Tevrah
Zeina have developed comprehensive local resilience action
plans.
UNDRR organized two workshops in Dubai (United Arab
Emirates), in collaboration with the Dubai Police. The
workshops brought together stakeholders at the local level
to complete the detailed Disaster Resilience Scorecard
for Cities to assess Dubai’s disaster risk reduction and
resilience capacity. The workshops provided an opportunity
for local experts and officials to develop a city resilience
action plan and related implementation plan based on the
Ten Essentials of the MCR Campaign. By the end of 2019,
Dubai was finalizing its local strategy for disaster risk
reduction.
UNDRR support has been instrumental in accelerating
the achievement of Target (e) in the Asia Pacific Region.
Through participation in regional consultations and capacity
development workshops, Maldives, Sri Lanka and Viet Nam
received support from UNDRR to improve understanding of
risk prevention, risk mitigation and strengthened capacities
to integrate these elements into policy and practice. As a
result, a shift in focus is expected to happen within national
strategies and priorities from disaster management to
comprehensive risk management, which will ensure that
national disaster risk reduction strategies guide policies,
programmes and plans towards multi-sector risk-informed
development that is more sustainable and resilient.
In partnership with UNDP, UNDRR conducted workshops
to provide technical assistance to revise national disaster
risk reduction strategies in the Lao People’s Democratic
Republic and Thailand. In both workshops, the inclusion
of diverse stakeholder groups and government agencies
ensured a comprehensive assessment of the key priorities
proposed in the new strategies. In addition, training was
provided to ensure alignment of the new strategies with the
Sendai Framework.

 | 35

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

In the case of the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the
national workshop enabled government officials to start a
wide inter-agency and inclusive effort to develop a national
disaster risk reduction strategy. The ministry responsible
for the strategy development committed to launch a
consultation tour with local governments and provinces
to ensure they understand their role in providing data and
input, for strategy development and for Sendai Framework
monitoring. Workshop participants felt better equipped
with understanding and knowledge to support the strategy
development process and Sendai Framework monitoring,
and they confirmed that the knowledge gained would help
enlist the cooperation of other sectors.
UNDRR collaborated with UNDP Cambodia to support
the National Disaster Management Committee and its
partners to revise the national action plan for disaster risk
reduction. Through a multi-stakeholder workshop, sectoral
representatives, non-governmental organizations (NGOs),
the private sector and development partners collectively
reviewed the outcomes of the previous plan and identified
gaps. This analysis informed implementation of the new
disaster risk reduction strategy, including a recommendation
to develop a related investment and partnership framework.
As a result of the consultative process, Cambodia delivered
the first draft of a revised plan.
In support of efforts led by the Japan International
Cooperation Agency, UNDRR provided significant technical
guidance in the development of Fiji’s National Disaster Risk
Reduction Policy, launched by the Prime Minister in 2019.
UNDRR was also active on the steering committee for the
ongoing review of Fiji’s National Disaster Management
Act 1998. It helped facilitate a national consultation with
government and non-government partners to refine the
revised act and was successful in strengthening the focus
on disaster risk prevention and reduction.
Technical guidance was provided to Kiribati for the
development of the country’s new Disaster Management
Act adopted in 2019. In addition, UNDRR provided
recommendations to Kiribati on how to monitor the
country’s new joint national action plan for implementation
of climate change and disaster risk management.
In partnership with the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat
and IFRC, under the auspices of the Pacific Resilience
Partnership, UNDRR convened eight Pacific Island countries
for a subregional conference to strengthen national risk
governance legislation and policymaking and to identify
opportunities to align climate change adaptation and
disaster risk reduction. The conference had a strong focus
on approaches that could be applied at the local level.
It also endorsed the workplan of the Pacific Resilience
Partnership, which aims to strengthen risk governance at
the national level. The workplan includes efforts to: (a) map
relevant national legislative and policy frameworks to ensure
information is easily accessible and examples of good
practice are shared; (b) develop, adapt and disseminate
36 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

technical guidance, including best practices and guidance
on developing policy and legislation on climate change
and disaster risk management; and (c) document pertinent
case studies and good practices in legislative reform in the
Pacific.
UNDRR led a regional effort to accelerate action on Target
(e) at the local level through a consultative workshop on
local disaster risk reduction strategies. The workshop
identified practical activities at the regional level that would
increase the development of local disaster risk reduction
strategies in the Asia and Pacific region. The key outcome
of the workshop was to identify a set of “accelerators”
that include support for integrating climate change into
local disaster risk reduction planning, enhanced advocacy
and simplified terminology, better coordination among
development partners, tools to track progress and public
expenditure, and better sharing of good practices. These
accelerators were shared at the 7th Asian Pacific Urban
Forum in Penang (Malaysia), where they were further refined
into a road map.
UNDRR is supporting the implementation of this road map
through several projects including: the development of a
catalogue of tools to support local disaster risk reduction
and climate change integrated planning; convening the
science and technology community at the regional and
country levels to advise local planning officials on how to
better integrate climate projections into their plans; and
carrying out a public expenditure review on disaster risk
reduction and climate investments to generate evidencebased recommendations.
In Fiji, a joint initiative with UN-Habitat and Local
Governments for Sustainability (ICLEI) produced a basic
disaster and climate risk assessment of the Sigatoka
municipality with a focus on informal settlements. The
findings were consolidated with previous assessments
conducted by other municipalities in Fiji, which resulted in
a national analysis and recommendations to the Ministry
of Local Government, Urban Development, Housing &
Environment, focused on priority areas for support at the
municipal level in Fiji.
In Honiara, the capital of Solomon Islands, UNDRR followed
up on its initial support in 2018 to the City Council on
disaster risk reduction planning. In partnership with
ICLEI and the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology,
UNDRR supported training of new ward councillors on the
importance of gender-sensitive disaster risk reduction. The
training was followed by a two-day round-table discussion
hosted by the Honiara City Council and jointly facilitated by
UNDRR, UN Women and the National Protection Committee.
The Ten Essentials methodology of the MCR Campaign
was reviewed with a gender lens. In addition, a set of key
recommendations for integration of gender and social
inclusion in disaster risk reduction planning was proposed
for consideration by the Honiara City Council.

©UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

 | 37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

The UNDRR Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific joined
GETI in mainstreaming disaster risk reduction, with a focus
on local disaster risk reduction and decentralized disaster
risk reduction governance, into the curriculum of India’s Lal
Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration and
regional academies of public administration.
In 2019, the UNDRR Regional Office for Europe coordinated
an independent multi-stakeholder assessment to ensure
that national disaster risk reduction strategies are inclusive,
robust and aligned with the recommendations outlined in the
Sendai Framework. Belarus and the Republic of Moldova were
the first countries to undergo the process.
To meet Target (e), Member States from Europe and Central
Asia are working with UNDRR to improve the effectiveness
of their plans to increase disaster resilience. To accelerate
implementation of the Sendai Framework and build
coherence across the 2030 sustainable development agenda,
UNDRR has developed a robust methodology that supports
independent assessment of national disaster risk reduction
strategies. The aim is to increase efficiency and relevance,
ensure sustainability and build ownership of the disaster risk
reduction agenda at national, regional and global levels while
addressing the needs of the most vulnerable.
Independent assessment teams, comprising representatives
and experts from the European Science and Technology
Advisory Group (E-STAG), financial institutions, local
government, parliament, the private sector, civil society and
UN agencies, as well as National Focal Points for the Sendai
Framework and other experts in disaster risk reduction, were
engaged to assess the structure, substance and coherence of
strategies under development.
Assessment teams analysed the disaster risk reduction
strategies of Belarus and the Republic of Moldova, and
provided advice on how to ensure that the strategies
have an impact on reducing existing disaster risks and
avoiding creation of new risk. Advice provided by E-STAG
included recommendations for: integrating the results of
national and local risk assessments; identifying clear roles
and responsibilities for all stakeholders involved in the
management of risks; mainstreaming disaster risk reduction
into relevant sectors such as water and sanitation, energy,
education, transport and agriculture; and building coherence
with SDGs and other global agendas.

©UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

In 2020, the same exercise will be conducted for Bulgaria,
Poland, Slovenia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, working in close
collaboration with authorities to strengthen their national
disaster risk reduction strategies.

Overview of local-level
engagement
4,311 CITIES PARTICIPATING IN THE
MAKING CITIES RESILIENCE CAMPAIGN

Africa 110
Americas-Caribbean 1,974
Arab States 
310
Asia-Pacific 
1,175
Europe 742

237 LOCAL GOVERNMENTS COMPLETED
DISASTER RESILIENCE SCORECARD SELFASSESSMENTS

Africa 51
Americas-Caribbean 55
Arab States 
28
Asia-Pacific 
102
Europe 1

 | 39

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 2

Local urban development: how one city in
Africa is meeting the Sendai Framework targets
Doris Ombara was six months into her new job as City Manager of Kisumu, Kenya’s third-largest city with
a population of approximately 600,000, on the shores of Lake Victoria in Kenya, when she reluctantly
decided to go to the World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, in Sendai (Japan) in March 2015.
She was persuaded to travel because she had read about other towns and cities that had joined the MCR
Campaign: “I was overwhelmed by the level of disasters and I was under a lot of pressure to give people
an assurance that they would not be pushed out of their homes and that the management of the city
really cared about them.”
Energized by what she saw in Sendai, she returned to Kisumu and joined the MCR Campaign,
determined to improve the city’s risk governance, especially for the 60 per cent of the city’s population
who live in slums and whose lives were regularly disrupted by floods and fires. It took two years of
advocacy and awareness-raising among politicians before she started to see a real shift towards
disaster risk management.
“The situation before was one of waiting for a disaster to occur and then we would cope to the best of
our ability. Then we got into the Making Cities Resilient Campaign. With the help of the UNDRR team in
Nairobi our biggest strategic achievement was disaster risk mapping and zoning the city. This helped us
to convince the politicians to factor disaster risk reduction into our annual workplan and budget”, Ms.
Ombara explains.
In 2017, the city management worked with various stakeholders to provide data on fires and floods. To
combat the fire threat, the city recruited community champions who went from door to door identifying
households with illegal connections, so the problem could be systematically addressed.
The city’s Kibuye market provides an outlet for up to 30,000 traders, but large parts of it were regularly
destroyed by fires, and it was impossible for fire engines to gain access. After a major awarenessraising campaign involving politicians and traders, access lanes for fire engines have been put in place,
along with fire hydrants. A fire engine is also stationed there. “Instead of three or four fires a week we
now might get one a month”, Ms. Ombara said.
Using funds from the Kenya Advance Support Programme, which is backed by the World Bank, Ms.
Ombara has also been able to buy heavy machinery to open drainage channels during the dry season to
lessen the impact of flooding during the region’s two rainy seasons. She has also put in an EWS, which
relies on information flows about the rains from communities upstream and a system of water gauges
along the rivers that flow through the city into Lake Victoria.
“We had record rains here last December. We did not have Christmas. We had just two deaths but at
least 10,000 people slept in the social centres and primary school in the neighbourhood because their
homes were all flooded. If we hadn’t taken action on the drainage, 50,000 people would have been
displaced.”
Ms. Ombara is a civil engineer by training, with expertise in water resource management. She has taken
steps to educate the population about waterborne diseases, as well as practical measures to remove
mosquito breeding grounds including relocation of the main rubbish dump away from the city centre.
She is known as “Ten Point Mama” for her advocacy of the “Ten Essentials” of the MCR Campaign.
Along with her team, she is now working on a detailed local urban development plan for the city that will
include a continued strong focus on disaster risk reduction.

Doris Ombara,
City Manager, Kisumu
40 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Making Cities Resilient Campaign:
resilience at the local level

Risk-informed urban development
and planning

More than half of the world’s population lives in cities,
and this is expected to increase to two thirds by the year
2050.16 Ensuring diverse stakeholders in cities, including
local government, have the capacity to implement effective
disaster risk reduction measures is essential to achieving
sustainable development. Since its launch in 2010, the MCR
Campaign has been successful in increasing awareness and
technical resilience capacity in cities. The number of cities
engaged in this campaign reached 4,311 by the end of 2019.
To empower local authorities to manage disaster risk better,
UNDRR provided support with tools, best practices and
policy guidance to implement the Sendai Framework.

Throughout 2019, UNDRR continued to support countries to
implement disaster risk reduction planning and initiatives
through training activities. GETI local training workshops
focused on risk-informed urban development and planning.
Forty cities in 22 countries have completed local disaster
risk reduction action plans with UNDRR support. Most of
these plans were also endorsed as ready to move onto
implementation, and some cities, including Greater Suva,
Lautoka and Nadi (Fiji), Honiara (Solomon Islands) and
Kampala (Uganda), also plan to integrate disaster risk
reduction and climate change adaptation plans.

At the end of 2019, 237 local governments in 36 countries
in five regions had completed the Disaster Resilience
Scorecard for Cities, a self-assessment tool that has been
translated into 12 languages including all six official UN
languages, and also Burmese, Italian, Korean, Mongolian,
Polish and Portuguese.
UNDRR has published two key performance and impact
analyses based on the results of self-assessments
conducted by 214 local governments. The first one is
the Making Cities Resilient Report 2019,17 which provides
a snapshot of progress made by local governments in
reducing disaster risks in alignment with the Sendai
Framework. The report also provides insights on progress
made towards achieving the Sendai Framework and SDGs,
particularly SDG 11.
Based on work with more than 200 cities and local
governments to assess gaps and progress in addressing
local resilience and pilot integrated climate and disaster
resilience planning with 20 cities, UNDRR issued a second
report called Making Cities Sustainable and Resilient:
Lessons Learned from the Disaster Resilience Scorecard
Assessment and Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) Action
Planning.18 That report demonstrates how, through the
completion of scorecard assessments and disaster
risk reduction action plans, cities raised awareness and
understanding of disaster risk reduction issues and their
interconnectedness. The process built local capacity,
generated awareness and interest, and created or
strengthened stakeholder partnerships.

Learning from the experience of the city of Ulaanbaatar,
the Mongolian National Emergency Management Agency
(NEMA) adopted the use of the Disaster Resilience
Scorecard for Cities as a diagnostic tool to inform the
development of local disaster risk reduction action
plans. Led by NEMA and with technical support provided
by UNDRR, the process was replicated widely with all
22 provinces across the country. In 2019, following
UNDRR training, 12 of Mongolia’s largest cities in these
provinces completed local disaster risk reduction action
plans. Mongolia aims to have all its provinces equipped
with the disaster risk reduction action plans for further
implementation in 2020.
The MCR Campaign was launched in 2010 to raise
awareness and commitment of local governments
and political leaders on disaster risk reduction. Broad
engagement in the campaign since 2019 has demonstrated
increased commitment to take action to ensure the safety
and well-being of citizens from disasters. To build on this
success, UNDRR initiated consultations with stakeholders
on the way forward for the campaign. City representatives,
national government agencies, development partners
and diverse stakeholders reiterated the need to continue
building the capacities of local governments to strengthen
disaster and climate resilience, including in areas related to
strategic planning, financing for resilience, multi-stakeholder
engagement, use of nature-based solutions and effective
implementation of risk-informed urban development plans.
The consultations informed the design of the successor
of the MCR Campaign – Making Cities Resilient 2030
(MCR2030). MCR2030 will be launched by the end of 2020
and seeks to create an alliance of partners committed
to supporting implementation of disaster risk reduction
strategies by local governments.

16	 UN, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, World Urbanization Prospects: The 2018 Revision (New York, UN, 2019). Available at https://
population.un.org/wup/Publications/Files/WUP2018-Report.pdf.
17	 UNDRR, Making Cities Resilient Report 2019: A Snapshot of how Local Governments Progress in Reducing Disaster Risks in Alignment with the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.unisdr.org/campaign/resilientcities/assets/toolkit/
documents/UNDRR_Making%20Cities%20Resilient%20Report%202019_April2019.pdf
18	 UNDRR, Making Cities Sustainable and Resilient: Lessons Learned from the Disaster Resilience Scorecard Assessment and Disaster Risk Reduction
(DRR) Action Planning (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/66413_undrrlessonslearnedfromdevcoproject.pdf.

 | 41

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

2.3

BUILD CAPACITY OF COUNTERPARTS,
UNCTS AND PARTNERS FOR DRR
LEADERSHIP

Strategic Approach to Capacity Development for Implementation of the Sendai Framework

©UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

The Strategic Approach to Capacity Development
for Implementation of the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction19 was launched at GP2019,
and provides stakeholders with a common and
comprehensive methodology on building disaster
risk reduction capabilities and competencies. The
strategic approach provides advice on the roles
and responsibilities of various stakeholders, and
high-level guidance in six critical areas of need:
(1) developing and strengthening disaster risk
reduction fundamentals, (2) institutionalizing
disaster risk reduction capacity, (3) sharing and
using risk information before and after disasters,
(4) establishing collaborative action for disaster
risk reduction at the national and local levels,
(5) strengthening external support mechanisms
and (6) advancing and expanding disaster risk
reduction capabilities.

climate action and sustainable development, and
embedding disaster risk reduction in relevant
sectoral plans and strategies. Thirty-four per cent
of workshop participants were women.

UNDRR regional offices, together with GETI
and other UN entities, expert institutions and
stakeholders, provided a range of training and
technical assistance to increase the capacity
of countries to develop and implement their
national strategies. In 2019, through the strategic
approach, UNDRR delivered tailored workshops
for 1,154 national and local government officials
from 81 countries, strengthening national and
local coordination mechanisms, improving
coherent planning across disaster risk reduction,
19	 UNDRR, Strategic Approach to Capacity Development for Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction
(Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.unisdr.org/files/58211_fullconciseguide.pdf.

 | 43

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
3

©UNICEF/Vlad Sokhin

Catalyse action through Member
States and partners

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

FOSTERED POLICY COHERENCE BY
ENGAGING WITH MEMBER STATES
& CONTRIBUTING TO RELEVANT
INTERGOVERNMENTAL PROCESSES
Integration of disaster risk reduction into intergovernmental decision-making
UNDRR continues to advance Sendai Framework
implementation and further integrate disaster
risk reduction as an essential component of
climate action and sustainable development
through intergovernmental decision-making and
policy-setting. UNDRR advocates for a coherent
approach towards disaster risk reduction and
implementation of the 2030 Agenda, Paris
Agreement, Addis Ababa Action Agenda on
Financing for Development, New Urban Agenda
and Agenda for Humanity.
As a result of UNDRR advocacy efforts and policy
advice, there was greater political recognition in
2019 that policy and programmatic coherence
with the Sendai Framework is essential for
achieving the goals and objectives of major
intergovernmental sustainable development and
climate action agreements. This was evident in
the outcomes of intergovernmental deliberations
and policymaking activities at UN Headquarters,
and through the UN General Assembly. In 2019, at
least 24 General Assembly resolutions adopted
language that strengthened policy coherence on
disaster risk reduction and opened new areas for
policy development. These resolutions covered
issues ranging from sustainable development,
climate action, financing, biodiversity, least
developed country graduation, displacement

and human rights. They also incorporated the
recommendations of the report of the SecretaryGeneral on the implementation of the Sendai
Framework.20
Political commitment to disaster risk reduction in
the SDG Summit Political Declaration embedded
the Sendai Framework in the Decade of Action.
The political declarations of the midterm reviews
of the Samoa Pathway for SIDS and the Vienna
Programme of Action highlighted the importance
of disaster risk reduction in addressing the
challenges faced by landlocked developing
countries.
The outcome of the ECOSOC Forum on
Financing for Development and several General
Assembly resolutions called for greater action
on disaster risk reduction financing, an area that
remains significantly underdeveloped in terms
of legislation, policies and instruments. These
achievements have created a strong foundation
for policy coherence on disaster risk reduction
across sectors and are a critical contribution to
the implementation of the Sendai Framework and
disaster risk reduction strategies in 2020 and
beyond.

20	 UN, General Assembly, Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030, Report of the
Secretary-General, A/RES/73/268, 27 July 2018. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/resolutions/N1824255-en.
pdf.

46 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Targeted advocacy
The UNDRR Support Group convenes Member States
on a quarterly basis to support implementation of the
UNDRR mandate. In 2019, through this mechanism,
UNDRR proactively engaged Member States to advance
implementation of the Sendai Framework, foster
coherence among disaster risk reduction, climate
change and sustainable development, strengthen
linkages with the broader UN agenda, and improve
understanding of disaster risk and its impact. GP2019,
the UN Sustainable Development Summit, the Climate
Action Summit and the UNFCCC twenty-fifth session
of the Conference of the Parties (COP 25) provided
strategic opportunities for Member States to advocate
for disaster risk reduction as an effective means of
enabling sustainable development.
Briefings for Member States and stakeholders at GP2019
established a link between the platform’s outcomes
and the deliberations at the High-level Political Forum
on Sustainable Development. This was strengthened
through a side event during the High-level Political Forum
on a coherent and coordinated approach to disaster risk
reduction and climate change action for sustainable
development. During the High-level Week of the General
Assembly in September, a side event at the SDG Summit
promoted the launch of the Coalition for Disaster
Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). UNDRR also created
platforms for young people to share their perspective on
disaster risk reduction at the Climate Action Summit.

©UN Photo/Logan Abassi

3.1

Throughout 2019, governments continued to draw
on UNDRR policy advice and support to build political
commitment for disaster risk reduction, strengthen
coherence in implementation of the Sendai Framework
and identify new policy development opportunities.
Supported by UNDRR, the report of the Secretary-General
on the implementation of the Sendai Framework and
18 other strategically selected reports of the SecretaryGeneral provided specific recommendations to advance
policy and programmatic coherence on disaster
risk reduction across sectors and areas of UN work.
Throughout the year, several high-level and technical
briefings on these recommendations were provided
to the Group of Friends for Disaster Risk Reduction (a
group of Member States that advocates for disaster
risk reduction and effective implementation of the
Sendai Framework). To further mainstream disaster
risk reduction and foster policy coherence, UNDRR
also provided policy advice to UN entities supporting
intergovernmental deliberations on key questions
relevant to disaster risk reduction.

 | 47

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

Impact through the United Nations Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience

3.2

COORDINATION & ADVICE PROVIDED
TO UN SYSTEM PARTNERS AT
GLOBAL LEVEL TOWARDS EFFECTIVE
& EFFICIENT SENDAI FRAMEWORK
IMPLEMENTATION
Incorporation of disaster risk reduction into United Nations mechanisms
In 2019, the UN development system
reform process and GP2019 provided
an opportunity to catalyse action
towards implementation of the Sendai
Framework by UN system partners.
Risk reduction was systematically
incorporated into various UN
mechanisms, notably the process for
developing Cooperation Frameworks,
as well as UN climate-security
mechanisms and humanitarian–
development–peace collaboration.
Building on this broad recognition
and commitment, UNDRR worked
with UN partners to enhance risk
reduction at the country level. As a
result, development and humanitarian
UN system partners are increasingly
integrating risk considerations into
their work.

As the focal point for disaster
risk reduction in the UN system,
UNDRR coordinates UN-wide Sendai
Framework implementation. The
United Nations Plan of Action on
Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience
is one of the main tools to maximize
UN efforts to support countries to
strengthen risk-informed development
programming, planning and investment
and ensure no one is left behind.
UNDRR coordinates two mechanisms
related to the UN plan of action: the
high-level UN Senior Leadership
Group on Disaster Risk Reduction for
Resilience and the UN Disaster Risk
Reduction Focal Points Group at the
working level.

During the 2019 UN Senior Leadership
Group meeting, which was convened
by the UN Special Representative of
the Secretary-General for Disaster
Risk Reduction, participants identified
relevant steps to improve coordination
of national-level disaster risk reduction
activities. These included closer
collaboration with the Resident
Coordinator system, integration
of disaster risk into Cooperation
Frameworks and Common Country
Analyses, provision of updated
technical guidance for UN Resident
Coordinators and UN Country Teams,
promotion of SFM and increased
technical support to countries.

Active engagement in the Disaster Risk
Reduction Focal Points Group resulted
in the systematic incorporation of
disaster risk reduction in the revision
of key mechanisms such as the
development of the Cooperation
Framework guidance and related
companion pieces, as well as the UN
climate-security mechanisms and
humanitarian–development–peace
collaboration. In support of the reform
of the UN development system and
its focus on a reinvigoration of the UN
Resident Coordinator system, UNDRR
initiated the development of a briefing
package for Regional Coordinators and
UN Country Teams on the integration
of disaster risk considerations
into Cooperation Frameworks and
Common Country Analyses.

©UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

Targeted support to Member States

48 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

To provide targeted support to
Member States to accelerate
implementation of the Sendai
Framework in alignment with the UN
development system reform process,
UNDRR identified opportunities to build
on complementarities with partners
such as UNDP, UNFCCC and the World
Bank’s Global Facility for Disaster
Reduction and Recovery. For example,
to accelerate the implementation of
Target (e) and enhance coherence
with the climate change agenda,
UNDRR, UNFCCC and other partners
launched the Target (e) Coherence
Approach. This supports 40 countries
to integrate climate change adaptation
into their national disaster risk
reduction strategies and disaster risk
reduction in their national adaptation
plans, and ensure coherence in the
implementation and monitoring of
the Sendai Framework, the Paris

Agreement and SDGs.
UNDRR is working with partners to
ensure integration of disaster risk
reduction into the humanitarian
development nexus, with a particular
focus on the Humanitarian Programme
Cycle. Based on the increasingly
complex and protracted nature of
today’s humanitarian crisis, this
effort expects to increase lives
saved and livelihoods protected by
mainstreaming disaster risk reduction
considerations into joint humanitarian
and development planning and
activities. This work operationalizes
the UN “New Way of Working”, which
brings UN humanitarian, development
and peace efforts together to work
more “cohesively” as part of a “triple
nexus”.

 | 49

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

Supporting a realistic understanding of risk
“ I have been in this job for four years and I have had the opportunity to work with UNDRR as a
representative of a UN Member State. During this time, I’ve observed the following ways in which
UNDRR contributes to building resilience and sustainable development:
1.	 Introduced a complex understanding of risk: Since the International Decade for Natural Disaster
Reduction in the 1990s, UNDRR has campaigned to take the natural out of disasters and increase
understanding that disasters occur because of a multitude of other reasons besides the actual
natural hazard, including lack of preparedness and early warning systems, poverty, poor land use
and building codes, destruction of protective ecosystems to mention a few.
2.	 Put risk at the centre of sustainable development: UNDRR has put the issue of risk and risk
management centre-stage in the development discourse. It is no longer something seen as a
niche ‘nice thing to do’.
3.	 Demonstrated the key role of public policymakers: During the International Decade there was
a danger that DRR [disaster risk reduction] would be monopolized by scientists, geologists,
climatologists and excellent people in academia. UNDRR changed the narrative to bring on board
the social scientists and public policymakers.
4.	 Leaders in enabling local engagement: UNDRR has empowered local DRR champions including
parliamentarians, mayors and city managers.
5.	 Proven value of a multi-stakeholder approach: DRR remains the primary responsibility of
governments but is now a big tent with engagement and action from a variety of stakeholders
including women and girls, persons living with disabilities, older persons, ethnic groups, the
private sector and civil society.
6.	 Advocacy and technical assistance: Knowledge creation and management through the Global
Assessment Reports and the Words Into Action guides has provided the DRR community with
ready-made sources for advocacy and coherent argument to justify the investments that need to
be made in DRR.
7.	 Investing in resilient societies (not just infrastructure): In collaboration with partners such as
UNDP and the World Bank, UNDRR has helped to bring the whole notion of ‘building back better’
into the mainstream of post-disaster recovery, going beyond the resilience of the asset itself and
looking at the larger context, including the social dimension.
8.	 Results driven: Compared to 20 years ago, there is much greater focus on accountability and
results, particularly substantial reductions in: loss of lives, numbers of people affected, economic
losses and damage to critical infrastructure.
9.	 Contribution to SDGs: Should there be a Sustainable Development Goal for Resilience? The
fact that people even ask that question is a sign of how far we have come. DRR fingerprints are
all over the 17 SDGs. It will be difficult to achieve many of them without progress on reducing
disaster risk and disaster losses, particularly in low- and middle-income countries where efforts
to eradicate poverty are critically dependent on building societal and structural resilience.
10.	Convincing cost–benefit analysis for investing in risk reduction: It may not be enough to meet
the challenge of the resilience gap between rich and poor but in recent years we are seeing
governments investing much more of their own resources in disaster risk management as the
arguments on cost–benefits sink home. Multilateral institutions are also investing heavily.”

Kamal Kishore
Member, National Disaster Management Agency, India
50 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

3.3

ALL OF SOCIETY ENGAGEMENT
AND ACTION PROMOTED TROUGH
STRENGTHENING PARTNERSHIPS WITH
KEY STAKEHOLDERS

Disaster risk financing and tracking

As humanitarian and development budgets
are under ever more strain, it is increasingly
important that international aid investments
do not inadvertently create new risks and that
investments are disaster risk sensitive. Therefore,
in line with Sendai Framework Priority 321 and
Target (f),22 UNDRR works with international
development actors to track and increase
mainstreaming of disaster risk reduction across
programmes and policies.

and Reporting on Progress in Achieving the Global
Targets of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction23 emphasizes the importance of the
disaster risk reduction policy marker as a way to
track the extent to which disaster risk reduction
has been integrated into development assistance.
The technical guidance also emphasizes the need
to look at financial flows captured by the DAC
Creditor Reporting System for official development
assistance commitments.

As a result of UNDRR close engagement with
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), the adoption of the OECD
marker for disaster risk reduction in the OECD
Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
Creditor Reporting System came into force in
January 2019. This enabled enhanced integration
of disaster risk considerations into development
assistance.
In 2019, UNDRR focused on providing additional
guidance to help Member States report on Target
(f). The UNDRR Technical Guidance for Monitoring
21	 Priority 3: “Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience.”
22	 Target (f): “Substantially enhance international cooperation to developing countries through adequate and sustainable
support to complement their national actions for implementation of the present Framework by 2030.”
23	 UNDRR, Technical Guidance for Monitoring and Reporting on Progress in Achieving the Global Targets of the Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction (Geneva, UNDRR, 2017). Available at https://www.unisdr.org/files/54970_techguidancefdigitalhr.
pdf.

 | 51

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

Risk-sensitive private sector investments
The Sendai Framework recognizes the fundamental
importance of nurturing an economic and regulatory
environment that incentivizes risk-informed investments.
Globally, the private sector is responsible for a significant
proportion of investments that will determine the future
landscape of risk. According to insurance broker Aon, 2010–
2019 was the worst decade on record for economic losses
from disasters triggered by natural hazards, amounting to
$3 trillion, which is over a trillion more than for 2000–2009.24
Because of the increase of disaster-related economic
losses, it is encouraging that the private sector, financial
institutions and regulators have started to pay closer
attention to the integration of disaster risk management.
Effective engagement with the private sector can
dramatically enhance the international community’s
collective ability to reduce losses and strengthen resilience.
Acknowledging the role of the private sector in building
resilience, UNDRR provides guidance for the private sector
on supporting Sendai Framework implementation. This
includes improving understanding of the cost–benefit
analysis of disaster risk reduction investments, as well
as the requirements for an environment that allows and
encourages risk-informed business investment. In 2019,
new partnerships were developed, and existing ones
strengthened in support of increased financing for disaster
risk reduction and risk-sensitive investment.
Estimates project that more than $90 trillion will be
invested globally in infrastructure by 2040, primarily in
developing countries.25 At the same time, disaster-induced
economic losses continue to increase – already estimated
at $520 billion per year.26 The Sendai Framework highlights
the resilience of critical resilience as a cornerstone of
sustainable development. CDRI was proposed at the 2016
Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction,
convened by UNDRR and hosted by India. Following a
series of events and workshops, including the International
Workshops on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, the 2018
Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction
and GP2019, CDRI was formally launched by Prime
Minister Narendra Modi at the Climate Action Summit in
September 2019. CDRI is an international partnership that
supports countries to build climate and disaster-resilient
infrastructure. The impact of disasters on infrastructure has
a disproportionate impact on the poor as they often lack
adequate resources to cope with disasters and related risks.
Ensuring infrastructure assets and systems are resilient is
crucial for reducing economic losses from disasters and

also central to protecting lives and livelihoods. Through
CDRI, UNDRR is supporting governments and partners to
reduce infrastructure loss and damage and enhance the
resilience of trillions of dollars of infrastructure investments.
The UNDRR-led Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient
Societies (ARISE) promotes resilience and a risk-informed
approach to doing business and future-proofing investment
decisions. New terms of reference, including a new due
diligence process, were developed in 2019 to strengthen the
alignment and impact of ARISE.
Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone
of many economies worldwide. SMEs range from microbusinesses such as sole retailers in street markets, to
manufacturing plants with significant capital investments
in equipment and workforce training. They are increasingly
recognized as central to socioeconomic development. Their
resilience to disasters is therefore central to sustainable
development. In a globalized economy, SMEs are
increasingly susceptible to systemic risks related to supply
chains and access to markets from events that may occur
at a great distance away. In 2019, ARISE supported the rollout of a new initiative on enhancing the long-term resilience
of SMEs.
In addition, to building the resilience of SMEs, the UNDRR
Regional Office for Europe launched the Building Resilience
of SMEs initiative. To understand how SMEs in Europe
manage risk and invest in resilience, a national-level survey
in Italy and city-level surveys in Istanbul (Turkey) and
Manchester (United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland) were launched. Results of the initiative highlighted
the recovery challenges that SMEs face, including obstacles
to investing in resilience. It also highlighted the importance
of improved collaboration between local authorities and
stakeholders, and urged immediate action to strengthen
engagement between the banking sector and local
government. The findings from Italy highlighted key factors
that are increasing the exposure of SMEs to greater risk,
such as lack of capacity, resource constraints, incentives
to invest in risk reduction and awareness of risk and the
potential impact. Due to the importance of SMEs in Europe,
which represent 95 per cent of new jobs created in the past
five years, UNDRR plans to extend this initiative to other
Member States in Western and Eastern Europe as well as
Central Asia. This will help to further understand the risks
SMEs face and inform the design of fiscal policies and
insurance solutions across Europe to ensure their resilience
to natural and human-induced hazards.

24	 Reuters, “Last decade most expensive for natural disasters: report”, 22 January 2020. Available at https://www.reuters.com/article/us-climatedisaster-losses/last-decade-most-expensive-for-natural-disasters-report-idUSKBN1ZL00H
25	 Global Infrastructure Outlook, “Forecasting infrastructure investment needs and gaps”. Available at https://outlook.gihub.org/.
26	 Stephane Hallegatte, Adrien Vogt-Schilb, Mook Bangalore and Julie Rozenberg, Unbreakable: Building the Resilience of the Poor in the Face of Natural
Disasters (Washington, DC, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/The World Bank Group, 2017). Available at http://documents.
worldbank.org/curated/en/512241480487839624/pdf/110618-PUB-Box396333B-PUBLIC-PUBDATE-11-24-16-UNIT-ITSKI.pdf.

52 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Recognizing the role of the insurance sector as a global risk
manager in the implementation of risk-informed investment,
UNDRR continued its engagement in the Insurance
Development Forum (IDF), which focuses on ensuring full
insurance coverage for all, including the most vulnerable
and is aligned with the InsuResilience Global Partnership
targets, which aim to strengthen the resilience of developing
countries and protect the lives and livelihoods of poor and
vulnerable people from the impacts of disasters.
UNDRR announced a new partnership with the International
Cooperative and Mutual Insurance Federation. The
partnership focuses on promoting a shift in the sector from
protection to prevention and incentivizing the integration
of disaster risk reduction considerations by the insurance
sector and its clients through the liability and the asset
management side of the sector. UNDRR also initiated a new

cooperation with the World Travel and Tourism Council on
building the capacity of businesses in the tourism sector to
implement the Sendai Framework.
With support from UNDRR, the World Trade Organization
(WTO) Symposium on Natural Disasters and Trade launched
two studies on the interlinkages between trade and
resilience. This was the first time that the trade community
looked at disasters beyond response and preparedness. The
findings highlighted the vulnerability of SIDS and SMEs, as
well as opportunities within the WTO rules system to enable
better disaster risk reduction and resilience building.
UNDRR engagement with the World Economic Forum (WEF)
led to a session organized by WEF during GP2019 on the
integration of climate and disaster risks into business
models.

©UN/MINUSTAH/Logan Abassi

Private sector participation at the 2019 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction
GP2019 provided a key opportunity to bring together UNDRR
diverse private sector partners including the ARISE Network,
IDF, UN Global Compact and WEF, as well as trade-related
organizations such as WTO and the International Trade
Centre, and regional business groups and networks. A
day-long forum attended by more than 300 private sector

representatives explored private sector engagement in
enhancing SME resilience, as well as integrating disaster
risk into financial and private sector decision-making.
Recommendations from the event were reflected in the new
UNDRR initiative on enhancing the resilience of SMEs to
disasters.

 | 53

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

3.4

PARTNERSHIPS LEVERAGED FOR
INCREASED FINANCING FOR DISASTER
RISK REDUCTION AND RISK-SENSITIVE
INVESTMENT

Role of science and technology partners

©UNDP Cambodia/Arantxa Cedillo

UNDRR continued to work with the Global Science
and Technology Advisory Group (G-STAG), regional
STAGs and members of the UNDRR Global Science
and Technology Partnership to promote a science
base for effective disaster risk reduction and riskinformed development.
The Science and Policy Forum, held during the
days preceding GP2019, convened scientists,
academics, representatives from the private
sector and civil society, and government
representatives from ministries of science and
research, and launched a revised edition of The
Science and Technology Roadmap to Support
the Implementation of the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030.27 The revised
edition was adapted to facilitate enhanced
coherence among the 2030 Agenda agreements.
The G-STAG Working Group on Data presented
a final report on its work during the period
2017–2019, which informed other global and
regional risk data discussions. The Science and
Policy Forum coincided with a session of the
ECOSOC Commission on Science and Technology
for Development (CSTD), which provided an
opportunity for UNDRR science partners to actively

engage with science ministers and participate in a
disaster risk reduction and resilience side event at
CSTD.
UNDRR worked in partnership with the
International Science Council (ISC) to improve data
for disaster risk reduction and policy advocacy
through the ISC role as lead of the UN Major
Group for Science and Technology. As a result,
UNDRR has seen strengthened integration of
disaster risk reduction expertise in science-led
intergovernmental processes such as the ECOSOC
Science Technology and Innovation Forum and
CSTD. This has supported cross-disciplinary
action within government ministries and enhanced
engagement by ministries of science and national
disaster risk reduction entities, resulting in the
practical application of science by policymakers.
In response to a call for a new approach to risk,
including systemic risk analysis, UNDRR, ISC and
the ISC Integrated Research on Disaster Risk
programme have initiated the development of a
new science and research agenda for disaster risk
reduction in 2020.

27	 UNDRR, The Science and Technology Roadmap to Support the Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015-2030 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/65131_file.pdf.

 | 55

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

“UNDRR is one of the best allies in our
struggle for inclusion”
“ The success of the MCR Campaign in Latin America has laid the groundwork for a new
campaign to include persons living with disabilities. It targets 51 local governments in the
greater metropolitan area of Santiago (Chile).
The Making Cities Disability Resilient Campaign will receive funding of $500,000 from the
Chilean Government. This will improve the lives of as many as 1.4 million persons living with
disabilities in one of the world’s most active seismic zones, and which is also vulnerable to
floods, droughts and other hazards.

Civil society engagement
In 2019, the newly launched Stakeholder Engagement
Mechanism (SEM) and the Sendai Stakeholder Groups led
civil society engagement in GP2019, as well as the Highlevel Political Forum on Sustainable Development and COP
25.
SEM organized the first ever Stakeholder Forum before
GP2019. It brought together high-level government
representatives and representatives from the private
sector, science, academia, civil society organizations and
community-based groups to discuss lessons learned and
future opportunities for inclusive, coherent, stakeholder-led
disaster risk reduction and risk-investment approaches.
The Stakeholder Forum adopted the first global stakeholder
declaration highlighting collaborative approaches among
stakeholders in support of government efforts to implement
the Sendai Framework and a risk-informed 2030 Agenda.
SEM has grown to a network of more than 200 organizations
that promote disaster risk reduction and resilience across
the global policy processes of the 2030 Agenda. In 2019,
SEM developed an action plan for 2020–2021 focused on
three activity streams: (a) influencing policy, (b) facilitating
stakeholder engagement in global and regional platforms
and (c) knowledge management.
In 2019, NGOs working on disaster risk reduction started
to log their voluntary commitments in support of the new

Sendai Framework Voluntary Commitments (SFVC) online
platform.28 More than 200 users registered in the first year.
The platform allows diverse stakeholders to inform the
public about their work, share lessons learned and identify
areas for collaboration. In turn, UNDRR can monitor and take
stock of progress and achievements.
In May 2019, UNDRR issued the first Sendai Framework
Voluntary Commitments Synthesis and Analysis Report.29 The
report presents trends and gaps regarding how voluntary
commitments are contributing to the implementation of
the Sendai Framework by covering the four priorities of the
Sendai Framework as well as SDGs. More than 50 per cent
of these voluntary commitments were concentrated in the
Asia region. Approximately 60 per cent were submitted by
NGOs, followed by academic and research institutes (11
per cent). SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities)
had the highest coverage (19 per cent) by these voluntary
commitments among the 17 SDGs. The report also
highlights three good practice examples in relation to Target
(e) of the Sendai Framework. Continued registration of
additional voluntary commitments by stakeholders in the
SFVC online platform will enable improved assessment
of all-of-society contributions to the implementation
of the Sendai Framework and increase stakeholders’
accountability.

The campaign has been made possible thanks to the support of UNDRR and is being
spearheaded by the NGO Inclusiva.
“The problem we have been facing for a long time is that persons with disabilities have been
invisible. We are 15 per cent of the global population. If the world wants to be resilient then
we need people living with disabilities to be involved, especially because we are masters of
resilience. We have little or no access to jobs, culture and education and that is why we are so
resilient”, said Carlos Kaiser.
“Out of 7 million people (in Chile) there are 1.4 million persons living with disabilities, but the
programme is going to have impacts for everyone.”
The training will target key stakeholders in local government to ensure that emergency plans
of first responders, search and rescue teams, fire officers and police are improved for persons
living with disabilities.
“Some disabilities are invisible and difficult to distinguish from an injury caused by a collapsed
building or a car crash. Sometimes rescuers talk to you to see if you can answer but if you are a
deaf person, they have to know that you are using sign language; or if you have autism that you
are going to communicate in a different way. This is very important when triage is being done
after a disaster.”
Mr. Kaiser emphasizes that the training will also include persons living with disabilities “to teach
them about self-protection. How to ask for help. How to become volunteers. How to cooperate
with the local authorities and community-based institutions. First responders come from the
communities most affected.”
The two-year programme begins in March 2020, in Talagante Province, which has a population
of over 200,000. Mr. Kaiser has already been invited to talk about the programme to the fire
department of the Mexican city of Guadalajara, and Argentina has also expressed interest.
Reflecting on his long experience of working with UNDRR, Mr. Kaiser said: “UNDRR is one of the
best allies we have in our struggle for inclusion of persons living with disabilities in disaster risk
management. UNDRR wants the world to be safe for everyone and to leave no one behind. They
are supporting persons living with disabilities and promoting us as full-fledged citizens and
people with rights of our own.”

Carlos Kaiser
28	 UNDRR, ‘Voluntary commitments, Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-230’. Available at https://sendaicommitments.unisdr.org/.
29	 UNDRR, Sendai Framework Voluntary Commitments Synthesis and Analysis Report 2019 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://reliefweb.int/
sites/reliefweb.int/files/resources/65545_sfvcreport20190503light.pdf.

56 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Executive Director, Inclusiva NGO

 | 57

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

Youth
Youth are at the front line of disaster risk and disaster risk
reduction. Particularly vulnerable to disasters, youth are also
key stakeholders in reducing risk and building resilience. In
2019, youth made their voices heard by leveraging social
media and organizing global protests that pressured global
leaders to address climate change. UNDRR worked closely
with many of these young people to catalyse youth action
and engagement globally by providing tools, guidance and
opportunities to connect and mobilize, including access to
high-level platforms, such as GP2019, the Climate Action
Summit and COP 25 to engage directly with decision
makers.
UNDRR worked with youth through the UN Major Group
for Children and Youth (MGCY) Disaster Risk Reduction
Working Group, the official mechanism of the UN for
channelling participation in sustainable development. In
close coordination with this group, UNDRR developed a
youth action plan to respond to the Secretary-General’s call
for UN entities to develop action plans to implement the UN
Youth Strategy.
UNDRR also worked closely with the MGCY Disaster Risk
Reduction Working Group and UNICEF to develop a new
WiA guide: On the Frontline of Disaster Risk Reduction
and Resilience: Children and Youth Engagement Guide
for Implementing the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015–2030.30 The guide was launched for public
review at the Youth Climate Action Summit in September,
and will be finalized and launched in 2020. The practical
“how to” reference guide pulls together the resources and

expertise of more than 100 institutions and individuals
globally. UNDRR also worked with other key partners, such
as the Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth and the InterAgency Network on Youth Development, of which it is a
member.
During GP2019, youth organized and contributed to events
such as the Resilience Lab, a Young Scientists’ Strategy
Meeting and a hackathon on resilience building in highvulnerability contexts. UNDRR ensured that youth were
engaged in GP2019 discussions as moderators on several
panels and by delivering a statement as an integral part of
the closing ceremony. Youth utilized the opportunity to selforganize, meet policymakers, share innovative solutions and
advocate for action.
The impact of this work was clear. Member States’
statements at GP2019, reflecting on their efforts to
implement the Sendai Framework, increasingly emphasized
the need to engage children and youth, particularly through
the principle of “leaving no one behind”. UNDRR active
youth participation in GP2019 was also recognized by the
Secretary-General’s Office, which requested UNDRR to
co-organize an event for the Youth Climate Action Summit.
The result was an interactive Climate Slam, which led to an
invitation for youth to contribute to a session of the Member
States segment of the Climate Action Summit, follow-up
discussions among youth and Member States, and an
invitation for youth to speak at an event organized by Egypt
following the summit.

30	 UNDRR, On the Frontline of Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience: Children and Youth Engagement Guide for Implementing the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/files/67704_
wiachildyouthsept12publicreviewhand.pdf.

58 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

©UNICEF Indonesia/UNID0940

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Strategic Objective 3

Partnership for building back better
Leveraging parliamentarians and other decision makers
UNDRR worked closely with parliamentarians and other
key decision makers to advocate for development that
is sensitive to disaster risk through a variety of avenues
including briefings and meetings with Members of
Parliament (MPs) by the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction, technicallevel consultations with MPs and outreach to hundreds
of MPs through engagement with the Inter-Parliamentary
Union (IPU).
UNDRR used GP2019 to engage and consult with diverse
MPs on a wide range of policy issues related to disaster risk
reduction. UNDRR participation at, and address to, the 141st
IPU Assembly enabled UNDRR advocacy to drive action on
disaster risk reduction to reach hundreds of MPs.
As a result of engagement with UNDRR, MPs have
committed to highlighting the need for disaster risk
reduction and to reducing disaster risk through their relevant
legislative, budgetary and oversight roles. UNDRR continues
to monitor legislative action on disaster risk reduction
globally.
UNDRR worked with the European Parliament and the
European Commission to ensure the inclusion and
strengthening of disaster risk reduction national legislation.
In March 2019, the revised EU Civil Protection legislation,
known as the Union Civil Protection Mechanism, came
into force. The revision which centred on the flagship

response initiative of the Commission known as ‘rescEU’,
was triggered by the devastating forest fires in Portugal
in summer 2017. In the area of disaster prevention
and preparedness, the revision outlined significant
developments that support greater disaster risk reduction
action at the level of the EU. Disaster prevention will be
improved by requiring member States to further develop
their national risk assessments and related reporting,
national risk management capability, and their risk
management planning. Training and knowledge-sharing will
also be strengthened as a result of the establishment of the
European Union Civil Protection Knowledge Network.
As a result of collaboration between UNDRR and
ParlAmericas (an independent network composed of
national legislatures from all countries in the Americas and
the Caribbean), the Parliamentary Protocol for Disaster
Risk Reduction and Climate Change Adaptation has been
developed and was presented during the 4th Gathering
of the ParlAmericas Open Parliament Network in March.
The protocol guides parliamentary work to meet national
disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation
needs. The protocol is structured under two chapters: the
first presents a series of suggested parliamentary actions
for managing disaster risk, linked with the parliamentary
functions of legislation, political oversight, and debate and
approval of the national budget, and the second provides
a detailed explanation of each of the Sendai Framework’s
priorities for action and its usefulness for parliamentarians.

“Disasters push millions of
people into poverty each year,
threatening progress, peace and
security, and costing billions of
dollars – and we have the science
that tells us that climate change
is going to increase the frequency
and intensity of these disaster
events of natural origin... This is
why tools like this Protocol are
so valuable for parliamentarians.
It gives us the information we
need to more effectively design
and approve laws – and hold
our governments accountable
to implementing those laws – to
ensure we are taking measures
for comprehensive disaster risk
reduction. Now is the time to take
action. Our citizens expect this of
us and we need to deliver.”
Honourable Robert Nault
Member of Parliament of Canada
and President of ParlAmericas

In support of Priority 431 of the Sendai Framework, UNDRR
continued to coordinate the International Recovery Platform
(IRP) – a joint initiative of international organizations,
national and local governments, and civil society. IRP
supports advancements in resilient recovery and build back
better by convening a broad range of senior policymakers
and practitioners to exchange experiences and identify
opportunities in resilient recovery and build back better at the
annual International Recovery Forum. It advocates for closer
cooperation with development partners, intergovernmental
organizations, regional organizations and regional platforms
for disaster risk reduction in promoting and building
capacity for effective build-back-better outcomes. In 2019,
IRP coordinated several key events on disaster recovery,
including the annual International Recovery Forum under
the theme of Attaining the Build Back Better Dividend and a
GP2019 side event focused on Securing an Inclusive Build
Back Better Dividend.

Gender-responsive disaster risk reduction
UNDRR remains committed to ensuring the perspectives
of women and girls, including at the grass-roots level, are
reflected in disaster risk reduction policy and initiatives.
Evidence has shown that gender-sensitive and responsive
approaches contribute to more effective disaster risk
reduction interventions, reducing the vulnerability of women
and children. In 2019, UNDRR continued to integrate a gender
perspective and related outcomes into the implementation of
its programmatic activities.
Gender-balanced participation in UNDRR national
and international conferences, discussion panels and
stakeholder groups improved in 2019. GP2019 prioritized
an integrated gender perspective and balance: 50 per cent
of session speakers and 40 per cent of participants were
female.

31	 Priority 4: “Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective
response and to ‘Build Back Better’ in recovery, rehabilitation and
reconstruction.”

60 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 61

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

ENABLER
1

Effective knowledge management,
communication and global advocacy

©Unplash/Yogendra Singh

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

enabler 1

Global advocacy campaigns

Communication support, including speeches, press releases, media interviews,
web stories and social media assets, was provided for appearances of the
Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction
at 25 high-level events and field visits across the globe including GP2019, the
Climate Action Summit, the SDG Summit and COP 25. These appearances were
leveraged to support implementation of the Sendai Framework with a focus
on Target (d)32 to reduce damage to critical infrastructure and disruption to
basic services. The release of three new WiA guides also enhanced visibility
of disaster risk reduction, particularly among practitioners in national and
local government, the private sector, NGOs and civil society. There was strong
backing from the Secretary-General, notably on International Day for Disaster
Risk Reduction (IDDRR) and World Tsunami Awareness Day (WTAD). New
digital engagement activities, such as a first Facebook Live session in support
of WTAD, reached more than 6,000 people, proving the growing appetite for
risk reduction stories and information.

ENHANCING VISIBILITY OF DISASTER
RISK REDUCTION THROUGH GLOBAL
ADVOCACY
Awareness of disaster risk reduction through global events for behavioural
change
Opportunities to create awareness of disaster risk
reduction, featuring the Special Representative of
the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction
and other senior UNDRR staff included, in
chronological order, the UN Human Rights Council,
IDF at the Bank of England, the UN Environment
Assembly, the Resilient Cities 2019 Congress, the
World Reconstruction Conference 4, GP2019, the
Second Multi-Hazard Early Warning Conference,
the launch of ARISE-India, the 2nd International
Workshop on Disaster Resilient Infrastructure,
the Arab Forum for Sustainable Development, the
seventy-fifth session of UN ESCAP, the High-level
Political Forum on Sustainable Development,

the Climate Action Summit, the Fourth Special
Thematic Session on Water and Disasters
of the High-level Experts and Leaders Panel
on Water and Disasters, the Financial Times
Mozambique Summit on Resilient Infrastructure
and Disaster Risk Reduction, the High-level Panel
on International Day of Persons with Disabilities
and COP 25. The Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction
proactively engaged with youth across all events,
including during visits to China, Japan, Kenya and
Mozambique, giving lectures at universities with
programmes related to disaster risk reduction.

32	 Target (d): “Substantially reduce disaster damage to critical infrastructure and disruption of basic services, among them
health and educational facilities, including through development of their resilience by 2030.”

64 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

IDDRR and WTAD were linked to Sendai Framework Target
(d). A common hashtag with a clear message, #BuildToLast,
was created for both days. The campaigns were linked to
UNDRR promotion of the development and launch of CDRI
and the development of national and local strategies for
disaster risk reduction by 2020. They were supported by
targeted content production (film and photography) and
visits to key locations where there is a visible dependence
on critical infrastructure. The themes of inclusion and
displacement were also explored through visits by the
Special Representative of the Secretary-General for Disaster
Risk Reduction to Kenya and Mozambique – countries that
are regularly confronted with a range of natural hazards.

The damage to Mozambique’s infrastructure was captured
in a series of videos, including one focused on a school
that survived Cyclone Idai as a result of being compliant
with cyclone-resistant standards set by UN-Habitat. UNDRR
also organized field visits to profile other areas affected by
disasters, including: Bangladesh, where protecting critical
infrastructure and the exposure to cyclones of the forcibly
displaced Rohingya population is a constant global concern;
the Caribbean island of Barbuda where the entire population
was forced to evacuate during the highly active 2017
Atlantic hurricane season; and Nepal, four years after the
2015 earthquake that left 3 million people homeless.

Disaster risk reduction champions, actors and initiatives
Throughout the year, the voices of actors at national and
local levels were heard across all communication channels
open to UNDRR. Most memorably, these included diverse
actors who were recognized for driving innovation and
change in disaster risk reduction, the three laureates of the
2019 United Nations Sasakawa Award for Disaster Risk
Reduction – the Department of Civil Defense of Campinas
(Brazil), the Mahila Housing SEWA Trust (India) and Dr.
Pramod Kumar Mishra (Principal Secretary to the Prime
Minister of India) – as well as the University of Dundee
(United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland) and
Resilience Solution (Bangladesh), which received the RISK
Award sponsored by Munich Re.

Social media assets profiled on UNDRR Twitter and
Facebook channels highlighted the perspective of diverse
influential leaders on disaster risk reduction, including:
Ahmadul Haque, Head, Cyclone Preparedness Programme,
Bangladesh; Amod Dixit, Founder, National Society for
Earthquake Technology, Nepal; António Guterres, SecretaryGeneral; Doris Ombara, City Manager of Kisumu, Kenya;
Professor Fumihiko Imamura, tsunami expert, Japan; Kamal
Kishore, Member, National Disaster Management Authority,
India; Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India; Petra
Němcová, tsunami survivor and UNDRR Tsunami Awareness
champion; and Ronald Jackson, Executive Director, CDEMA.

Increasing reach and public engagement in disaster risk reduction through communication,
media and marketing
A major area of focus during 2019 was content production
to populate UNDRR social media channels, to improve
reach and engagement. These ranged from the SecretaryGeneral’s IDDRR message, public service announcements
for international days, and campaign film packages on
Bangladesh, the Caribbean, Japan (tsunami risk) and
Mozambique, which contributed to successfully increasing
UNDRR followers on social media channels by more than 10
per cent compared to 2018.
The presence of the Special Representative of the SecretaryGeneral for Disaster Risk Reduction on social media
(Twitter) grew considerably during 2019. The number of
followers increased from 4,700 to 7,030 and the account’s
audience reach grew to 1.4 million. The 2018 monthly record
of 74,000 impressions (potential audience) was exceeded
in 9 out of 12 months in 2019. The high-level appearances

of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General for
Disaster Risk Reduction, speeches, opinion pieces and press
releases helped fuel UNDRR overall audience growth (e.g.
UNDRR followers on Twitter rose from 61,000 to 68,300).
When combined with the UNDRR PreventionWeb Twitter
account, these three Twitter channels had a total outreach
of 10.5 million. UNDRR Facebook followers rose from
21,300 in 2018 to 26,500 in 2019. The independent media
tracking company, Meltwater, logged 6,500 pieces of online
coverage mentioning UNDRR. Notable peaks occurred
during GP2019 and during the weeks of IDDRR and WTAD.
PreventionWeb,33 the world’s only disaster risk reduction
knowledge platform, increased followers from an average
of 80,000 per month in 2018 to 92,000 per month in 2019,
reaching more than 1.1 million unique users during 2019.

33	 UNDRR, “PreventionWeb, The knowledge platform for disaster risk reduction”. Available at www.preventionweb.net.

 | 65

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

PROMOTING EFFECTIVE LEARNING AND
KNOWLEDGE-SHARING
Knowledge management to broaden reach
UNDRR rebranded in 2019, aligning its acronym with its
name and purpose. The rebrand was applied across all
communication and external facing outputs, and a range
of internal quality tools were released to staff to encourage
brand consistency.

Following recommendations of a technical audit conducted
in 2018, UNDRR initiated the migration of its digital
properties to a new content management system in line with
UN standards. The new platform will ensure technology,
architecture and brand consistency across all websites. The
websites will be deployed on the new platform in 2020.

Guidance and tools
The WiA series of guides provides practical guidance to
support the implementation of the Sendai Framework,
ensure engagement and ownership of action by all
stakeholders, and strengthen accountability in disaster risk
reduction.34 In 2019, as part of a recently developed strategy
to maximize long-term WiA impact, UNDRR produced a
new design and structure for the guides to make them as
accessible as possible across a range of digital channels.
THREE WIA GUIDES WERE LAUNCED IN 2019:
Developing National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies,
which is now being used intensively by UNDRR regional
offices to organize Member State consultations to guide
and support the development of their national disaster risk
reduction strategies. National Sendai Framework Focal
Points are also using the guide to help achieve Sendai
Framework Target (e).

©Unplash/ThisisEngineering RAEng

Disaster Displacement: How to Reduce Risk, Address
Impacts and Strengthen Resilience tackles the complex
realities of displacement as a result of disaster. Several
partner organizations are using this guide in their regional
and country programmes, and translations into Arabic,
French and Spanish are under way.
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Strategies
builds on lessons learned from the MCR Campaign and is
intended to inspire and guide local governments to create
effective local resilience strategies.

The following WiA guides have gone through a public review
process on UNDRR PreventionWeb and are to be published
in 2020:
Enhancing Disaster Preparedness for Effective Response
targets emergency managers, relevant government
officials and other actors working to enhance risk-informed
disaster preparedness within and across sectors, and at
all administrative levels in a country. The guide will have
an annex, Design and Conduct of Simulation Exercises
(SIMEX).
On the Frontline of Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience:
Children and Youth Engagement Guide for Implementing the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015–2030
addresses children and youth under 30 years of age, who
currently make up more than half the world’s population.
The Implementation Guide for Land Use and Urban Planning
provides guidance for urban planners on how to incorporate
disaster risk reduction and resilience into urban planning
decisions.
Work on the WiA guide Implementation Guide for Addressing
Water-related Disasters and Transboundary Cooperation has
led to an initiative to broaden cooperation between UNDRR
and UNECE to mutually support and complement disaster
risk reduction and climate change adaptation awareness.
UNECE is proactively using the WiA guide when hosting
training seminars and providing advice to countries, and has
produced a project proposal to collaborate with UNDRR to
scale up this work across countries.

34	 UNDRR, “Words into action”. Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/sendai-framework/wordsintoaction.

 | 67

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

ENABLER
2

©UNAMID/Albert Gonzalez Farran

Strengthened organizational
performance

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Enabler 2

In 2019, reforms across the UN Secretariat introduced new measures such as
a new delegation of authority that strengthened accountability and increased
UNDRR capacity to make timely decisions. The first senior manager compact
between the Secretary-General and the Special Representative of the SecretaryGeneral for Disaster Risk Reduction emphasized the strategic importance of the
UNDRR mandate.
UNDRR enhanced its business processes, related operating procedures
and templates, which resulted in increased operational accountability and
performance. The increased support and training for staff at all levels of
administration and new monitoring tools ensured results-driven administrative
decisions.

UNDRR OFFICES AND PRESENCES

BRUSSELS
NEW YORK

BONN
GENEVA
INCHEON
CAIRO

PANAMA CITY

*

ADDIS ABABA

KOBE

BANGKOK

NAIROBI

ENHANCING EFFECTIVENESS,
EFFICIENCY AND QUALITY OF
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
Work programme delivery

Financial management

UNDRR revised its programme planning, monitoring
and reporting processes. Improved alignment of
programmatic priorities and financial decisionmaking facilitated timely action and increased
internal coordination in programme delivery.

Frequent financial reports were shared with
UNDRR programme managers in 2019, to ensure
strengthened tracking of expenditures against
projects deliverables and funding levels. Internal
training for programme managers in UNDRR
regional offices ensured that these reports were
used as effective decision-making tools linked to
operational priorities.

New planning templates were rolled out, enabling
UNDRR to more effectively link project deliverables
to the strategic objectives of the work programme.
The Programme Management Oversight
Committee continued to be a robust internal
review mechanism that has enhanced the quality,
impact and alignment of UNDRR projects with
the organization’s strategic objectives and work
programme.
To prepare the organization for the UN Decade of
Action, the UNDRR work programme for 2020–
202135 was developed following extensive internal
and external consultations. The work programme
is closely aligned with the UN Annual Budget
Fascicle for 2020 and supports timely adjustments
to the expected accomplishments relative to the
anticipated extrabudgetary resources.

UNDRR invested in an enhanced accounting
structure to support more efficient and transparent
results-based budgeting and management. The
new system more accurately links expenditures to
UNDRR strategic objectives. It will allow UNDRR to
enhance the quality and efficiency of its financial
monitoring in relation to the organization’s work
programme as well as accountability to donors
and partners. The new accounting system became
effective for all projects as of 1 January 2020.

35	 UNDRR, UNDRR Work Programme 2020-2021 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2019). Available at https://www.unisdr.org/files/68235_
undrrworkprogramme20202021.pdf.

70 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

SUVA

UNDRR Headquarters

Regional office
Presence
1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

Human resources
UNDRR maintained its strong focus on performance
management and staff development to improve
organizational performance. The evaluation of the 2018–
2019 staff development strategy will inform the UNDRR
2020–2021 staff development and learning strategy.
UNDRR developed and shared an analysis of key
performance indicators on a quarterly basis to inform
senior management’s strategic human resources decisions.
The organization also ensured gender parity at all levels,
including at senior levels. An action plan to enhance
geographic diversity was developed and will be rolled out in
2020.
Standard operating procedures for key human resources
processes were developed and implemented, and a human
resource learning programme is ongoing to build the
capacity of newly recruited colleagues including Junior
Professional Officers.

Administration planning, management and
monitoring
UNDRR works with a range of partners to leverage their
technical expertise and country presence. In 2019, UNDRR
reviewed and released 16 grants to partner organizations
in support of the implementation of the UNDRR work
programme for a total amount of $2.3 million. All grants
were screened in compliance with UNDRR standards before
approval. Implementation of the grantees’ projects was
closely monitored in line with the UNDRR results framework.
In 2019, the UN Secretariat started preparatory steps for
the issuance of a Statement on Internal Control for 2020
operations by early 2021. This statement is a voluntary
public accountability document that describes the
effectiveness of internal controls within an organization.
As part of this process, the Special Representative of
the Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction will be
providing the Secretary-General with a self-assessment of
the internal controls in place at UNDRR.
Key issues highlighted in the UNDRR Risk Register continued
to be closely monitored.
 | 71

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

©UNAMID/Bruno Martins Imagens

FINANCIAL
OVERVIEW

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Financial overview

UNDRR remains predominantly funded through voluntary contributions,
with over 99 per cent of its resources being from extrabudgetary sources
and less than 1 per cent from the UN Regular Budget. UNDRR therefore
focused on raising adequate, flexible and predicable financial resources
to ensure effective implementation of the work programme.36

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
Efforts to mobilize financial resources for
UNDRR resulted in $76.8 million37 being
received by UNDRR during the 2018–2019
biennium, of which $36 million was available
for implementation in 2019. By the end of 2019,
approximately $15.6 million was pledged for
implementation in 2020 onwards.
The flexible nature of unearmarked core
funding is particularly important to UNDRR,
given the organization’s reliance on
extrabudgetary funding support. Core funding
significantly reduces transaction costs related
to contributions and allows for forward
planning. It also allows the organization to
initiate implementation of essential activities
that may later be funded by earmarked
contributions, enabling the organization
to focus on ensuring effective operational
delivery, strategic results and long-term
impact. Some of the UNDRR key partners are
not able to provide unearmarked core support,
but are able to provide welcomed flexibility
by pledging their support as softly earmarked
contributions. The donor community continued
to indicate strong support for UNDRR,
and its confidence translated into UNDRR
receiving 62 per cent of the funds available for
implementation in 2019 as flexible support,

of which 45 per cent was unearmarked core
support and 17 per cent was softly earmarked
support.
Most of the funding available for 2019 was
part of multi-year funding agreements. As
such, it provided valuable predictability and
a reliable cash flow, which allowed for a high
implementation rate. In 2019, out of the $36
million available for implementation, UNDRR
spent $33.5 million, achieving a 93 per cent
implementation rate. The results achieved
are elaborated in Annex I, Progress Against
Output Indicators, of this Annual Report, which
is available online and provides a systematic
account of the achievements for 2019.
Through regular financial and programmatic
reports, consultations and donor meetings,
UNDRR ensured accountability to its donors.
Two donor meetings were held in 2019 to
brief on progress against strategic priorities
outlined in the UNDRR work programme and
related funding requirements. In addition to
maintaining strong relationships with key
donors, UNDRR continued its work to achieve
a truly global and diversified donor base. New
donors came on board, and some previous
donors returned in 201938.

36	 The financial information in this section is based on contributions received by UNDRR.
37	 This amount includes the contributions received from donors in 2019. It also included 2019 contributions from
Czechia and Spain, which were received at the beginning of 2020.
38	 China, IDF, New Zealand, the Philippines, Spain, UNDP, United Kingdom Research and Innovation and UN Women.

74 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

UNDRR values advocacy for disaster risk
reduction, integration of a risk perspective
and adoption of a risk-informed approach.
The generous support and close collaboration
of Switzerland helped to ensure a successful
outcome of GP2019. In-kind contributions
also remained an important source of support
for UNDRR. During the course of 2019, the
Governments of Italy, Japan, Sweden, Switzerland
and the United States of America provided a
total of five Junior Professional Officers, and
the Government of France provided one fully
funded UN Volunteer. Working for UNDRR gives
young professionals opportunities to engage
with diverse global stakeholders at the policy
and operational level and to contribute to a broad
agenda that is delivering results and providing
long-term impact.

2019 WORK PROGRAMME
EXPENDITURE BREAKDOWN

12%

2019 INCOME BREAKDOWN

17%
38%
Earmarked
funding

45%

Unearmarked
funding
Soft-earmarked
funding

2018 – 2019 WORK PROGRAMME
EXPENDITURE BREAKDOWN

11%

27%

25%

19%

20%
16%

25%

SO1
SO2

16%

30%

SO3
E1
E2

2019 EXPENDITURE
BREAKDOWN BY REGION

2018 – 2019 EXPENDITURE
BREAKDOWN BY REGION

11%

12%
8%

37%

22%

9%

34%

13%

AmericasCaribbean
Arab States

22%
8%

Africa

Asia-Pacific

10%

15%

Europe
Headquarters

 | 75

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Financial overview

UNDRR 2018-2019 DONORS
GOVERNMENTS

Spain

Luxembourg

Ireland

China

UN + World Bank

Czech Republic

Finland

Australia

Republic of Korea

Norway

Switzerland

United States of America

6

European Commission

Germany

Japan

7

Sweden

TOP 2019 DONORS TO UNDRR (IN MILLION USD)

Argentina 1
Australia
China

25,000

25,000

1,682,718

1

Finland
France
Ireland
Japan

2

2
2

Germany

1

2

4

Kazakhstan

3

Republic of Korea
Luxembourg

1

2

New Zealand
Norway

3,103,662

599,980

599,980
11,377

127,873

873,744

1,001,617

1,207,729

1,148,106

2,355,835

11,968

11,177

23,145

5,211,300

5,015,866

10,227,166

582,751

330,033

912,784

7,203,382

5,200,218

12,403,600

100,000

10,000

110,000

2,399,980

1,916,268

4,316,248

310,559

278,087

588,646

37,239

37,239

2,775,783

4,394,008

2,500

2,500

111,607

111,607

1

1,618,225

2

Philippines

2

Spain 1

3

1,420,944

11,377

1

Czech Republic

4

2019 BIENNIUM TOTAL

2

Cyprus

5

2018

Sweden 2

8,224,725

6,599,934

14,824,659

Switzerland 5

2,782,543

3,273,312

6,055,856

United States of America 1

1,512,653

654,330

2,166,983

33,012,783

30,259,129

63,271,912

6,819,187

4,961,155

11,780,341

65 445

65,445

427,310

898,310

SUB-TOTAL
OTHER INSTITUTIONS
European Commission 6
UKRI
2

1

World Bank
ESCWA

Unearmarked

Soft earmarked

76 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

0.112

0.278

0.330

0.600

0.604

0.654

0.874

1.148

1.421

1.916

2.776

3.273

4.961

5.016

5.200

6.600

In milions USD

1

1	 Earmarked contribution
2	 Unearmarked contribution
3	 Soft-earmarked contribution
4	 Combination of unearmarked
and soft-earmarked contribution
5	 Combination of earmarked,
unearmarked and softearmarked contribution
6	 Earmarked contributions from
two Directorate Generals (DEVCO
and ECHO)
Note: IPSAS compliant audited
financial statements will be
published upon availability on:
https://www.undrr.org/about-undrr/
funding

471,000

1

1

Human Security Trust Fund
UNDP

1

16,667

16,667

335,215

335,215

1

UNWomen

1

SUB-TOTAL

7,642,069

103,680

103,680

72,770

72,770

5,630,360

13,272,428

PRIVATE SECTOR
Enel Foundation 2
IDF

39,773

2

UPS Foundation
Willis

4

1

SUB-TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

60,000

39,773
5,000

5,000

70,000

130,000

36,800

36,800

136,573

75,000

211,573

40,791,424

35,964,489

76,755,913

Earmarked
 | 77

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

 | 79

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction
9-11 Rue de Varembé
CH 1202 Geneva, Switzerland
Telephone: +41(0)22 917 89 07-8
E-mail: undrr@un.org
Website: www.undrr.org

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

