	

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

CONTENTS
1. Background……………………………………………………………………………1
2. Scope of Work……………………………………………………………………….1
3. Vision…………………………………………………………………………………….2
4. Mission………………………………………………………………………………….2
5. Functions of SDMC (IU)………………………………………………………….2
6. Activities in the Financial Year 2020-2021………………………………5
7. Financial Status……………………………………………………………………..7
8. Annexures……………………………………………………………………………..8
Annexure 1- Webinar on Drought Monitoring & Management
using Earth Observation & Weather Forecast Data………………………9
Annexure 2- Regional Consultation on the Asia Pacific Action
Plan 2021 – 2024 for the implementation of SFDRR …..………………22
Annexure 3- Visit of H.E. Secretary General of SAARC at
SDMC (IU) ……………………………………………………….............................25
Annexure 4- 5th South Asian SDG Forum & Policy Dialogue on
Regional Cooperation for sustainable development in South
Asia………………………………………….…………………………………………………27
Annexure 5- Asia-Pacific Partnership for Disaster Risk Reduction
(APP-DRR)………………………………………………………………………….……….29
Annexure 6- Webinar on Climate Risk Management in Changing
Environment...................................................................................30

1

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

1. Background
The SAARC region, by virtue of its unique geographical setting, climate and socioeconomic
vulnerabilities, is amongst the world’s multi-hazard hotspots. The region bears the brunt of largescale catastrophic disasters. Major population centers such as Kathmandu, Karachi, Kabul, New
Delhi, Dhaka lie on key seismic fault lines or along coastal areas constantly buffeted by cyclones,
floods, and storm surges. The latter extreme weather events increase in number and intensity due
to the effects of climate change. Unplanned human settlements, unsafe building practices, and high
population densities have further compounded the exposure and vulnerability of people and
economies. As a result, earthquakes, cyclones, floods, tsunamis, droughts, and other hazards of
every type and magnitude continue to consume lives, property, and livelihoods across the region.
SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC-IU) has been set up at Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Management (GIDM) Campus, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India in November 2016, with a vision to
be a Centre of Excellence to provide policy advice, technical support on system development,
capacity building services and training for holistic management of disaster risk in the SAARC
region. The centre facilitates exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient
management of disaster risk. Eight Member States, i.e. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are served by the SDMC (IU).

2. Scope of Work
SDMC(IU) is working to give a fillip to regional cooperation for holistic management of disaster
risk in the SAARC region. It serves the Member States by providing policy advice, technical
support on system development, capacity building services and training. The Centre facilitates
exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient management of disaster risk. As
needed, the Centre undertakes projects and programmes to serve the needs of the Member States.
It seeks to expand from a 'knowledge sharing' organisation to an ‘action-response' organisation
and develop Standard Operating Procedures, tools, guidelines and methodologies for different
types and phases of disasters.

2

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

It is vital for SDMC (IU) to frame cooperation as technical responsibility for regional Disaster
Management and Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) making material contribution to the lives of
vulnerable population and those exposed by the natural disasters. The centre is entrusted with the
responsibility to support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science
& Technology, knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity
development, collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals
and other relevant frameworks adopted by Member States.
In addition, the SDMC (IU) has been re-established with an expanded role by merging four
erstwhile SAARC Centres namely (1) SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC– New Delhi,
India); (2) SAARC Meteorological Research Centre (SMRC - Dhaka, Bangladesh); (3) SAARC
Forestry Centre (SFC - Thimphu, Bhutan); (4) SAARC Coastal Zone Management Centre
(SCZMC - Male, Maldives). Disaster Risk Reduction relevant functions of these centres are also
a part of the scope of work.

3. Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence for regional cooperation and specialised service delivery to Member
States for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), Response, Recovery and Sustainable Development.

4. Mission
To support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science & Technology,
knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity development,
collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals and other relevant
frameworks adopted by Member States.

5. Functions of SDMC (IU)
1.

Provide assistance in formulation of Policies, Strategies and Sustainable Development
Frameworks in relation to disaster Management and Disaster Risk Reduction

2.

Undertake/ promote research for better understanding of the various meteorological
phenomena of particular interest to the SAARC Region, with a view to enhance the
capability of National Meteorological Services (NMSs) of the Member States, particularly

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

in the field of early warning to provide support for preparedness and management of natural
hazards involving relevant knowledge and operational institutions in India.
3.

Collect, compile, document and disseminate data, information, case studies, indigenous
knowledge and good practices relating to disaster risk reduction, and sustainable
development.

4.

Compile and collate information for the region required for weather forecasting and
monitoring special weather phenomena.

5.

Strengthen regional response mechanisms to reduce loss of lives, injuries and to provide
timely humanitarian assistance to people affected by disasters.

6.

To identify organisations in the region dealing with relevant key focus areas, facilitate
interaction, promote coordination and cooperation amongst institutions (ministries,
authorities,

inter-governmental

organisations,

international

organisations,

non-

governmental organisations, funding agencies, etc.) and other stakeholders involved
through networking for the exchange of experiences, information, data, expertise,
knowledge and technology transfer in the key focus areas of SDMC.
7.

Organise training workshops, conferences, seminars, lectures for various stakeholders on
key priority/focus areas of the Member States and on various aspects of disaster
management.

8.

Develop educational materials and conduct academic and professional courses on key
priority/focus areas.

9.

Develop training modules on various aspects of key priority/focus areas and conduct
programmes for Training of Trainers including simulation exercises.

10.

Coordinate SAADMEx with the Member States.

11.

Analyse information, undertake research and disseminate research findings on key
priority/focus areas among the Member States.

12.

Undertake preparation of databases, publication of journals, research papers and books,
and establish and maintain online resource centre in furtherance of the aforesaid objectives.

13.

Collaborate with other global, regional and national centres of excellence to achieve
synergies in programmes and activities.

14.

Conduct studies on assessment and management of disaster risks posing a threat to
inclusive and sustainable development in South Asia.

15.

Undertake

research,

projects,

programmes

contributing

towards

mitigating the impact of trans-boundary disasters.

4

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

16.

Facilitate from within and outside the region supply of emergency needs in times of
disaster, in line with SAARC disaster response mechanisms.

17.

Facilitate exchange of experiences and technical support among Member States on
National Action Plans for Disaster Risk Reduction.

6. Activities in the Financial Year 2021-2022
6.1

Preparation of Activity Plan

SDMC (IU) had prepared its annual Activity Plan for FY 2021-2022 based on the discussion in
fifth Inter-Ministerial Meeting and shared with MEA, GoI. Based on the administrative and
financial approval received by MEA on July 1, 2021, following capacity building programs/
webinars were conducted.
6.2

Capacity Building Programs organized
No
of Presence of the
Date
Participants
Member States

#

Name of Webinar

1.

Drought Monitoring and
58
Management using Earth Observation
and Weather Forecast Data

Seven Member
States

2.

Regional Consultation on AsiaPacific Action Plan 2021-2024

17

All

15th July
2021

3.

Climate Risk Management in
Changing Environment

40

Six Member
States (Except
Afghanistan &
Pakistan)

15th March,
2022

7th July 2021

(Except Nepal)

Participants
•115 Participants have been oriented through the Capacity Building Programs

Experts
•12 Experts (5 from SAARC Member States and 7 from International
Organisation) have shared their experiences during these capacity development
programs

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

6.3

Other Programs

Sl.
No.
1

Activity

2

Publications

3

Web Portal

6.4

Dedicated web-portal
on COVID-19 for
SAARC Region

Action Taken
o SDMC (IU) set up a dedicated web-portal
(http://www.covid19-sdmc.org) on COVID-19 for
shared use of SAARC countries. The portal was
created with an aim to provide a platform, wherein
through active participation, all member countries
can disseminate reliable information and updates on
the evolving situation relating to COVID-19 in the
region, and best practices being followed in member
countries. Since the creation of the website, situation
report of the region is regularly updated on the portal
using data from authentic sources like government/
Ministry websites of member countries and WHO.
o One volume of the bi-annual Newsletter was
published by SDMC (IU) in September 2021 and the
second volume is being prepared.
o Annual Report for FY 2020 -21 was prepared and
shared with MEA and uploaded on SDMC portal.
o SDMC (IU) updates its portal with all the necessary
information/ data on regular basis.
o Country Page for each country has been developed.
User Manual for the same has been prepared and
shared with all Member States for updation of the
country page.

Activity Briefs

As mentioned above, SDMC (IU) undertook several activities in the FY 2021 – 2022.
A small brief of each activity can be found as Annexures to this report.
Annexure
1
2
3
4
5
6

Topic
Webinar on Drought Monitoring & Management using Earth Observation & Weather
Forecast Data
Regional Consultation on the Asia Pacific Action Plan 2021 – 2024 for the implementation
of SFDRR
Visit of H.E. Secretary General of SAARC at SDMC (IU)
5th South Asian SDG Forum & Policy Dialogue on Regional Cooperation for sustainable
development in South Asia
Asia-Pacific Partnership for Disaster Risk Reduction (APP-DRR)
Webinar on Climate Risk Management in Changing Environment

6

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

7. Financial Status (Amount in INR)
Total Funds available as on
date 1/04/2021

Fund released during
FY 2021-22

Expenditure incurred
during FY 2021-22

28,08,731.14

51,29,268.00

22,37,931.00

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

ANNEXURES

8

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Annexure 1
Regional Webinar on
Drought Monitoring and Management using Earth Observation and Weather
Forecast Data
Program Note
Background	
	

The climate variability during the summer monsoon magnifies the frequency and intensity of
drought and floods across South Asia which is already facing the heat of the COVID 19 pandemic.
Droughts are categorized as slow-onset disasters which are difficult to identify and gradually
destroy the areas and affect millions of communities. As per WMO, drought is defined as a
prolonged dry period in the natural climate cycle that can occur anywhere in the world. Among
weather-related natural hazards, drought is probably the most complex and severe due to its
intrinsic nature and wide-ranging and cascading impacts.
In South Asia, drought occurs frequently in arid and semi-arid regions and has affected 1.46 billion
people with an economic loss of over 7 billion USD in the last 56 years. Early 2000 onwards,
severe droughts affected vast areas of South Asia, including western India, and southern and
central Pakistan. The South Asian regions are among the perennially drought-prone regions of the
world. India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka have reported droughts at least once in every 3 years in the
past five decades, while Bangladesh and Nepal also suffer from frequent droughts.
Inappropriate land use, increasing pressure on natural resources, water scarcity, and climate change
scenarios aggravate drought events. Drought events result in loss of livelihood, poverty and food
insecurity as agriculture is the major sector impacted. It affects agricultural production, public
water supply, energy production, transportation, tourism, human health, biodiversity, natural
ecosystems, etc. The related impacts develop slowly, are often indirect and can linger for long
times after the end of the drought. While the impacts result in severe economic losses,
environmental damage and human suffering, they are generally less visible than the impacts of

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

other natural hazards (e.g. floods and storms) that cause immediate and structural damages, which
are clearly linked to the hazard and quantifiable in economic terms.
While it is impossible to control the occurrence of droughts, the resulting impacts may be mitigated
through appropriate surveillance, early warning and management strategies in a drought
management plan, wherein, Earth observation based information system plays crucial role.
	

Aim	
The objective of the webinar was to discuss advances in earth observation and weather forecast
data, approaches and tools to help achieving drought resilience in the Member States. The event
will highlight various global to regional platform and related tools for monitoring and early
warning to guide policy makers in promoting timely drought management measures.

Targeted	Participants	
This webinar engaged Senior Officers from Ministries/Dept. of Agriculture, Water Resources,
Meteorology, Climate Change; agencies dealing with application of Remote Sensing & Geospatial
technologies; National Disaster Management Organizations (NDMOs) from all the SAARC
Member States.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

10

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Agenda	

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Report of Webinar on
Drought Monitoring and Management using Earth Observation and
Weather Forecast Data
drought management system. The region is

Introductory Session	
On

behalf

of

the

SAARC

Disaster

Management Centre, Ms. Prashansa Dixit
welcomed all the delegates from the SAARC
Member States, esteemed resource persons
and partners for the webinar.

making progress in use of tools of earth
observation and weather forecast data for
early and effective response. He also
mentioned

about

Regional

Drought

Monitoring & Management that IWMI is
promoting since 2005 in South Asia, using

The keynote address was given by Mr. P.K.

approaches involving earth observation and

Taneja,

He

modelling tools. IWMI and partners are also

highlighted the importance of this webinar

developing integrated drought management

and welcomed all the dignitaries from the

tools in South Asia.

Director,

SDMC

(IU).

Member States and introduced the resource
persons.

Representatives from each Member States
gave their introductory remarks.

Opening remarks were given by Dr. Mark
Smith - Director General, IWMI
Opening Session: Outcome of the GAR
Special Report on Drought 2021
Dr. Daniel Tsegai, UNCCD

Dr. Mark Smith acknowledged the longstanding partnership of SDMC(IU) with
IWMI. He mentioned that this webinar is an

Dr. Daniel from United Nation Convention to

opportunity to assist nations in advancing the

Combat Desertification and also one of the

12

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

lead authors of the GAR Special Report on

He explained the systemic drought risks- the

Drought 2021, delivered an opening session

multi-scale

on the outcome of the report. He talked about

institutions affecting food system. Drought is

the three main elements of the report-

also a core issue in the SDGs, by minimizing

Modernizing

impacts of droughts, countries can progress

current

understanding

of

nature

of

drivers

and

of

drought, the lived experience of droughts,

on achieving many of the SDGs.

and drought risk to resilience- considering

The GAR report says that ‘Drought demands

drought as systemic risk. The GAR report

innovation’, it cannot be business as usual. It

recognizes the direct and indirect impacts of

requires prospective and proactive measures,

drought

and

improved drought risk assessment and

environment; and potential interconnections

management by enhancing and sustaining the

among different sectors affected by drought

capabilities of communities and individuals.

on

society,

economy

like transport, farming, health, groundwater,
energy, livestock, etc. The report also
highlights that until drought strikes a nation

Technical Session 1: UN-SPIDER learning

or is not declared as an issue, then it is just

resources

managed by one Ministry like water,

drought management and response

agriculture, etc. But when drought thrives, it

Dr. Shirish Ravan, UN-SPIDER

and

advisory

services

for

becomes a national issue. It should be
considered as national issue before it thrives.
There should be national dialogue and all
segment of economy should be part of the
drought planning.
Dr. Daniel showed drought simulation for
four projected warming levels of global
temperatures.

Drought

frequency

and

severity will likely increase with increase in
global temperature. Due to the widespread
and cascading impacts - often not explicitly
attributed to drought - damage and cost are
usually seriously underestimated.

Dr. Ravan presented on the learning
resources of UN-SPIDER available for the
participants. He highlighted that earth
observation information is important for
drought stock taking, risk & vulnerability
assessment,

simulations,

etc.

Space

technology is about earth observation,

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

satellite meteorology, global navigation

-

Drought impacts are increasing and

satellite systems (GNSS) and satellite

becoming complex across sectors; they

communication.

setback development efforts.

He gave glimpse of changing river course of

-

River Padma in Bangladesh (NASA image)
for period of 2000-2008. The river changing

Impact assessments are lacking or there is
no consistent methodology.

-

Climate change will continue to alter

pattern, studied through historical data, holds

frequency, severity and duration of

big impact on irrigation system, water

drought for many regions.

supply, disaster risk or drought management

-

Policy makers need to be convinced that

strategy.

drought

Dr. Ravan further explained the role of UN-

management are worthy of upfront

SPIDER

investments.

knowledge

as

capacity
portal.

builder

risk

He gave an overview of drought statistics in

drought

South Asia- EMDAT reported 46 major

monitoring using various index, available on

drought events (1950-2020) impacting 1.4

the portal.

billion people with economic loss of over 6.9

practices

discussed

its

and

the

recommended

He

and

preparedness

on

billion USD. Also there has been lack of
Technical Session 2: Earth observation

robust damage reporting and comprehensive

data for drought monitoring and early

sector wise impact from droughts.

warning in South Asia

Dr. Giriraj discussed on IWMI’s Drought

Dr. Giriraj Amarnath, IWMI

Resilience Initiatives, one of them being The
South Asia Drought Monitoring System
(SADMS) and how it can be leveraged for
action and decision making. The drought
surveillance system provides information on
agriculture stress using satellite indices,
drought severity maps, digital and dynamic
contingency plans, and impact on crops.

Dr. Giriraj mentioned few key points like:

He highlighted the importance of short term

-

Past drought management efforts have

and sub-seasonal forecast to understand

been reactive.

location specific climate risk rather than

14

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

long-range forecast. He further explained the

Technical Session 3: Drought management

importance of drought early warning system.

efforts relevant to dryland region

EWS promotes early/anticipatory action and

Dr. K V Rao, CRIDA

early finance. With this he gave example of
Afghanistan

Drought

Early

Warning

Decision Support Tool (AF-DEWS)- it is a
powerful tool that can access open-source
satellite data and produce science-based
knowledge products to assist decision
making.
The takeaway message from his session

Dr. K V Rao, took the session on Drought

were:

management efforts relevant to dryland

-

Strengthen regional drought monitoring

region in the specific context of India.

and management (e.g. SADMS) as an

He first gave an overview of rainfed areas and

important

cultivation area, diverse crop cafeteria,

-

step

towards

proactively

enhance drought resilience.

characterization by large number of small

Efforts to develop robust decision support

and

information

rapid

infrastructure etc. Further he gave details on

and

how rainfed areas are encountering frequent

dissemination

products
among

and
users

importantly able to predict and detect
droughts early.
-

Integrated drought management requires
a collaborative approach within and
between levels of government and with
the private sector.

marginal

farmers,

inadequate

droughts with time scale.
He talked about drought management
initiative considering real time management
and long term measures; focus is to work with
long term measures for drought proofing.
He explained drought with three major
points:
•

Within the season how do we manage

•

End of the season what kind of support
that can be given

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

•

For a long-term purpose of drought

in the various provinces of Afghanistan. This

region what are the decision that can be

has also been useful to assess the effect and

taken up.

impact of drought and thereby plan for relief,

While talking about real time drought
management of base country, he explained
that, it is being looked up in three ways: Pre
monsoon Season, During Season, & Post
rainy Season.

mitigation, adaptation and preparedness. The
use of AF-DEWS has also been very useful.
Bangladesh
Bangladesh recognises Drought as a disaster
and hence, the standing orders on Disaster

For long term measures, for monitoring more

emphasises on multi-departmental approach

in drought prone regions, he presented ideas

towards its management. The representative

of ongoing programs of India. Major

emphasised on the need of trans-boundary

departments involved and initiatives taken

cooperation on action, but more on research,

were discussed.

which is perhaps, the need of the hour. The

At end of the session, he suggested there are
efforts for taking long term measures but
what is needed is real time management for
farmers

as

well

as

the

government

departments to make use of available tools
like space application based indices for
drought prone regions. For intervening at the
ground level.

management

variability amongst Member States which
would play a major role in contextualising
drought management in different countries.
Also, longer term forecast models should be
worked upon to ensure robust early warnings
and impact-based forecasting. A suggestion
was made to issue bulletins / advisories in this
regard too which would enhance the capacity

Experience of using Earth observation for
drought

representative highlighted the geo-climatic

from

Member

States
Afghanistan
Afghanistan shared the use of indices-based

of the Member States.
Bhutan
The representative reported about the state of
affair in Bhutan, reflecting on the agroclimatic zones and hazards like forest fires.

approach to assess drought. This has been
helpful to understand the severity of drought

16

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

India
The representative from NDMA, reflected on
the

drought

highlighted

proneness
the

of

evolution

India
of

and

drought

management policies in India, starting from
Famine Codes of 1883 to Drought Manual of
2016. India uses a combination of indices
across different sectors (hydrological, crop
based, soil based etc.) through multiple
institutions at different levels to manage
drought issues in India. He highlighted the
two-trigger

mechanism

of

drought

declaration in India. A whole range of

Pakistan
Pakistan presented the bouquet of indices that
are used - meteorological, satellite (RS
based), hydrological. Emphasis was laid on
the use of composite drought index which is
an ensemble of different effective indices. A
glimpse of drought hazard map was
presented along with precipitation-based
analyses.
Sri Lanka

initiative of drought mitigation was also

The representative gave a brief about the

presented and emphasis was put on drought

droughts in Sri Lanka and the effects and

response and relief measures too.

impacts of those events. Information was

Another

representative

made

a

brief

given

about

the

References

in different states of India and the different

collaboration with university too. Researches

agencies involved. A reference was made on

have shown the declining trend of rainfall

the

along with the expressive variability, future

Watch

Group,

NADAMS,

BHUVAN.

about

bulletins.

presentation on the state of affair of drought

Crop

were

monthly

WFP-PRISM,

climate scenarios and its possible effect on
future drought occurrences. An integrated

Maldives

way forward was also proposed highlighting

The Member State representative couldn’t

the importance of index-based insurance. A

present.

request was made to prepare a disaster
forecasting

Nepal

mechanism

for

SAARC

countries.

No Participant.

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Concluding Remarks
Concluding remarks were given by Director,
SDMC(IU) and proposals given by Member
States (Bangladesh and Sri Lanka) were well
noted. Program ended with a vote of thanks
by Ms. Prashansa Dixit.

	
	

18

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

List of Participants

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

20

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Annexure 2
Regional Consultation on the Asia Pacific Action Plan 2021 – 2024 for the
implementation of SFDRR
In collaboration with UNDRR

SDMC(IU) conducted a regional consultation jointly with UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
(UNDRR) on the Zero Draft of the Asia Pacific Action Plan 2021 – 2024.
The current regional Action Plan (2018-2021) of the Asia Regional Plan for Implementation of the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 is coming to a close and development
of a new action plan this time will bring together Asia and the Pacific dimensions. The Asia-Pacific
Action Plan (2021-2024) would acknowledge the increasingly complex and systemic nature of
risks with compounding and cascading challenges and impacts, incorporate the lessons from the
COVID-19 global crisis to identify pathways from crisis to resilience.
This Action Plan 2021-2024 holds added strategic relevance as it covers 2023, which is the year
of the midterm review of the Sendai Framework, as mandated by the United Nations General
Assembly.
Director of SDMC(IU) and Chief of UNDRR Regional office for Asia and the Pacific, gave their
opening remarks while explaining the relevance of the regional action plan in the scenario of
climate change and pandemic. The expert from UNDRR gave an overview of the zero draft of the
Asia Pacific Action Plan 2021-2024. The action plan is structured around four priority action areas,
each action area is broken down into three parts – regional, national, and local. She conducted a
quiz wherein participants were asked following question to vote:

22

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

How a regional action plan supports national implementation of the Sendai Framework?

The maximum votes were given to option two i.e. it provides the basis for regional cooperation,
collaboration and learning. And also, to option one which says that the regional action plan guides
national strategic planning and action.
The participants were divided in two breakout groups for the detailed discussion on the Action
Plan. In each group the discussions were held on different Priority Action. The representatives
from the Member States provided their feedback and suggestions to be incorporated in the Action
Plan.
Towards the closing of the consultation, Chief of UNDRR ROAP briefed on the next steps towards
APP DRR forum and APMCDRR 2022. The inputs from the Member States would be consolidated
in the new plan and launched in the next APPDRR meeting to be held in December. The plan
would serve as an important milestone and the next GPDRR would be held in May next year which
will be important opportunity to continue and check the implementation of the plan and enhance
it further. GPDRR would be followed by APMCDRR towards the end of 2022 which would be an
opportunity to assess the one-year implementation of the plan and progress on the SFDRR.
Director of SDMC(IU) also gave his suggestion during the closing that intergovernmental regional
frameworks should be an integral part of Sendai mechanism and have access to the Sendai monitor,
so that contribution can be made at regional level and right up to local level.

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

A total of 17 delegates participated in the webinar from all SAARC Member States from respective
National Disaster Management Agencies and relevant ministries, especially those responsible for
planning and finance.
	

24

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Annexure 3
Visit of H.E. Secretary General of SAARC at SDMC (IU)
A Brief Report

H.E. Secretary General of SAARC – Mr. Esala Ruwan Weerakoon along with his spouse and the
Director (ETF) - Mr. Chanchal Chand Sarkar, visited Ahmedabad on 10th and 11th of August 2021.
On 11th August, H.E. accompanied by his spouse and Director, first visited the Sabarmati Ashram
in Ahmedabad where they learnt about the life of Mahatma Gandhi, Father of the Nation, and his
major activities for independence and upliftment of the society. From Sabarmati Ashram, H.E.
accompanied by Director, visited SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU).

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Director, SDMC(IU), welcomed H.E. and gave an in-depth presentation on the activities of
SDMC(IU). The presentation gave an overview of the set-up of SDMC(IU), its functions, human
resources, details of the capacity building programs conducted, and statistics about the
participation, etc. Both the portals of SDMC(IU)- the main portal and COVID19 portal were
shown to the dignitaries. They were also informed about the other initiatives being taken by
SDMC(IU) like the revision of SAARC DRR framework and publication of annual reports,
newsletters, etc.
A detailed discussion was held between the H.E. Secretary General of SAARC and Director,
SDMC(IU) on these topics. After the presentation and discussions, the dignitaries visited the
various facilities available in the campus where they were shown the SDMC(IU) office block, and
other facilities in the campus like seminar hall, smart classrooms, residential annexe, urban forest
initiative etc. After the campus tour, the dignitaries were taken for the lunch at the GIFT city club
along with some of the senior officials from the Government of Gujarat dealing in the subject of
Disaster Management. From GIFT city, the dignitaries were taken to the Science city where they
visited the Aquatics gallery and the Robotics gallery, recently inaugurated by the Hon. Prime
Minister of India.

26

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Annexure 4
SDMC (IU)’s Participation in the 5th South Asian SDG Forum & in Policy
Dialogue on Regional Cooperation for sustainable development in South Asia
A Brief Report

The “Fifth South Asian SDG Forum” held in Sri Lanka, on the 15th and 16th of November, 2021.
The forum focused

on

inclusive,

resilient

and

sustainable strategies towards

COVID-19 recovery efforts and identify priorities to accelerate the Goals of the 2030 Agenda,
with emphasis on climate- and environment- responsive approaches to building back better from
the COVID-19 pandemic. The theme of the 2021 SASF was aligned with the theme of the 2022
HLPF and the APFSD, “Building back better from COVID-19” while advancing the full
implementation of the 2030 Agenda.
The Forum provided an opportunity to discuss how the South and South-West Asia subregion can
cooperate to assess progress on the thematic SDGs for review by the HLPF in 2022, i.e., Goals 4
(Quality education), 5 (Gender equality), 14 (Life below water), 15 (Life on land) and 17
(Partnership for the Goals).

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Mr. P. K. Taneja, Director – SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU), participated in the Policy
dialogue on regional cooperation for sustainable development in South Asia, held in Sri Lanka,
on the 17th of November, 2021.

While moderating session on ‘Regional Cooperation for addressing Disaster Risks and Building
Climate Resilience’, Director-SDMC stressed on the fact that in order to build resilience to
disaster risks, the siloed and sectoral approach is insufficient and the interplay between the socialeconomic-environment aspects of the SDGs needs to be considered.
There is a need to understand the impact of risks, such as through impact-based forecasting, and
community level warning systems are important to cope with growing uncertainties.
Director-SDMC

also

statedthat

disaster

resilient infrastructure requires the

development of both hard and soft infrastructure (e.g., managing of internal displacements, social
security, etc.) and the leveraging of existing regional cooperation mechanisms, such as the
Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, International Solar Alliance, One World One Sun
One Grid Initiative, is important.

28

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Annexure 5
SDMC (IU)’s Participation in Asia Pacific Partnership for Disaster Risk
Reduction (APP-DRR) Forum
A Brief Report

Mr. P. K. Taneja, Director – SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU), participated in the Asia
Pacific Partnership for Disaster Risk Reduction (APP- DRR) Forum, hosted virtually, on the 8th
and 9th of December, 2021. The APP-DRR serves as the main consultation forum for the AsiaPacific Ministerial Conference for DRR (APMCDRR).
Collectively, the APP-DRR and APMCDRR form the regional platform for disaster risk reduction
in the Asia-Pacific region. During his virtual address, Director – SDMC stated that we need to
strengthen our efforts to understand risk in its true nature and character, through processes and
methods incorporating a balance of science, engineering, technology and social dimensions.
The Director also mentioned that reduction of systemic risk needs a transformation of the disaster
risk governance machineries of the day and political willingness and leadership is crucial and a
key enabler - For example, the digital platform created by SDMC (IU) to serve as an inventory of
important information on management of COVID-19 by the SAARC Member States as an
outcome of the dialogue amongst the Heads of the SAARC
Countries at the very beginning of Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. The address concluded with
the note that while we strategize to build back better, we need to prioritize community-based,
multi-hazard early-warnings which can actually contribute to Targets A to D of Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction.
	
	
	
	

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Annexure 6
Regional Webinar on
Climate Risk Management in Changing Environment
Program Note
Context	
	

The 6th Assessment Report, entitled “Climate Change 2021: The Physical Science Basis” from
the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)’s Working Group 1, draws up a very
precise inventory of climate physics, and is the most important source regarding scientific
knowledge on climate change around the world. Though already known, but it is now a fact
established by science - human activity is the cause of the atmosphere, oceans, and land
warming. Thus, there is no denying that climate change would function as a Disaster Risk
amplifier - the frequency, duration, nature and intensity of extreme weather events are bound to
change. This poses a downside risk to sustainable development of communities and countries.
With this report, the IPCC examines for the first time the regional aspects of climate change.
Because of worsening climate change, the IPCC warns that each region is expected to experience
more simultaneous and multiple changes in climate impact factors, even with a global warming of
1.5°C. The South Asian region, with its exponential development, would be more prone to a
riskscape of uncertainty, and thus, it is absolutely necessary to understand the plausible effects and
impacts of climate change and develop a consensus towards climate action. Climate change
impacts stand to slash up to 9% off the South Asian economy every year by the end of this century,
and the human and financial toll could be even higher if the damage from floods, droughts and
other extreme weather events is included.

30

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

By 2050, the collective economy of six countries—Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives,
Nepal and Sri Lanka - will lose an average 1.8% of its annual gross domestic product, rising
to 8.8% by 2100.
- Assessing the Costs of Climate Change and Adaptation in South Asia, ADB
	
	

Research released during the CoP 26 (Conference of Parties) shows that the plans countries have
laid out so far for reducing emissions (known as Nationally Determined Contributions or NDCs)
still add up to a terrifying 2.4oC of temperature rise by the end of the century. Crossing the 2oC
threshold is enough to put over 1 billion people under extreme heat stress; bleach over 99% of
coral reefs; double the extinction of plant species and intensify the melting of sea ice in
summer by 10 times, fueling up to 6 meters of sea level rise in vulnerable parts of the world.
To this end, SDMC (IU) proposes to organise a webinar to lucidly illustrate the physical basis
behind climate change (doing away with the misnomers like weather, climate variability and
climate change), help participants visualize the impacts of climate change on various sectors and
take stock of the progress of climate action in the countries of the region.
Objectives	
The webinar has been designed to –
1. Help attendees understand the physical basis of climate change and develop a fair understanding
of climate risk assessment
2. Illustrate the plausible impacts of climate change on different sectors of importance
	

Targeted	Participants	
This webinar aims to engage Senior Officers from Ministries/Dept. dealing with Sustainable
Development, Economic Affairs; National Disaster Management Organizations (NDMOs) from
all the SAARC Member States.

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Agenda	
	

	
	
	
	

32

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Relevance	of	the	webinar	
	

Climate change is the single biggest health threat facing humanity, and health professionals
worldwide are already responding to the health harms caused by this unfolding crisis. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) has concluded that to avert catastrophic health
impacts and prevent millions of climate change-related deaths, the world must limit temperature
rise to 1.5°C. Past emissions have already made a certain level of global temperature rise and other
changes to the climate inevitable. Global heating of even 1.5°C is not considered safe, however;
every additional tenth of a degree of warming will take a serious toll on people’s lives and health.
Though already known, but it is now a fact established by science - human activity is the cause of
the atmosphere, oceans, and land warming. Thus, there is no denying that climate change would
function as a Disaster Risk amplifier - the frequency, duration, nature and intensity of extreme
weather events are bound to change. This poses a downside risk to sustainable development of
communities and countries. While no one is safe from these risks, the people whose health is being
harmed first and worst by the climate crisis are the people who contribute least to its causes, and
who are least able to protect themselves and their families against it - people in low-income and
disadvantaged countries and communities. Climate change is already impacting health in a myriad
of ways, including by leading to death and illness from increasingly frequent extreme weather
events, such as heatwaves, storms and floods, the disruption of food systems, increases in zoonoses
and food-, waterand vector-borne diseases, and mental health issues. Furthermore, climate change is undermining
many of the social determinants for good health, such as livelihoods, equality and access to health
care and social support structures. These climate-sensitive health risks are disproportionately felt
by the most vulnerable and disadvantaged, including women, children, ethnic minorities, poor
communities, migrants or displaced persons, older populations, and those with underlying health
conditions.
The South Asia region is both a large contributor to climate change and also one of the most
vulnerable to climate change. To this end, an attempt was made to organise a webinar in order to
lucidly illustrate the physical basis behind climate change (doing away with the misnomers like
weather, climate variability and climate change), help participants visualize the impacts of climate

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

change on various sectors and take stock of the progress of climate action in the SAARC countries
of the region.
	
	

7	Years	into	the	Paris	Agreement		
Paris Agreement - The landmark accord, which was agreed at COP21, saw rich and poor
countries align and come together in an international treaty on climate change to keep global
heating to well below 2°C.
No less than 196 countries agreed to the goal of limiting global warming to well below 2°C,
preferably to 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial levels, the scientifically advised limit of safety. The
Paris Agreement works on a five-year cycle of increasingly ambitious climate action carried out
by countries. With seven years already passed when this agreement established a "global
stocktake" which revisits the national goals to "update and enhance" them every five years
beginning 2023, let’s have a look at the successes, the ongoing challenges and what the future
holds for this landmark accord.
Mainstreaming 1.5°C – The inclusion of 1.5°C as an aspirational limit on global warming was a
big victory for the vulnerable island nations and leading environmental NGOs. 1.5°C had
previously been dismissed by major powers, but increased reporting on the difference half a degree
would make to millions of lives helped to ensure this aspirational target was included. Over the
past couple of years, recognition of limiting global heating to 1.5°C is commonplace among many
nations and within many businesses.
Normalising net zero – Net-zero emissions targets are now commonplace. There is also a
powerful movement of net-zero emission targets within the corporate world with businesses often
setting more aggressive targets than country-level commitments. Climate science suggests you
cannot reach 1.5°C without going carbon neutral. Net zero is a way of conceptualising what 1.5°C
means in practice.
Shift to renewables – The financing landscape has shifted in favour of clean energy, and many
believe that the Paris Agreement sent the signal that renewables and clean technology were a
worthwhile and safe investment. This increase reflects the fact that wind turbines and solar panels
are now competitive or cheaper than fossil fuel generation in many countries, and that is before

34

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

factoring in subsidies.
Rising emissions – Despite the landmark commitments made by signatories of the Paris
Agreement, emissions have continued to rise globally. The UN Environment Programme (UNEP)
reported that emissions rose from 50 billion tonnes in 2015 to 55 billion tonnes in 2019. While
carbon output has reduced dramatically in 2020, due mainly to the impact of COVID-19, emissions
have only decreased to the level that will be required every single year to achieve the Paris
Agreement and that’s with transport, industry and commerce almost grinding to a halt during parts
of the year. The prospect of a global green recovery from COVID-19 isn’t materialising across the
board, with some countries pouring money into the fossil fuel economy to stave off a devastating
recession.
Rising fossil fuel production – Despite the growth in renewables and clean technology, the UN
Environment Programme recently reported that nations are planning production increases of 2% a
year and G20 countries are giving 50% more COVID-19 recovery funding to fossil fuels than to
clean energy.
Effects are already being felt and by the most vulnerable – Climate change is affecting every
country on every continent. It is disrupting national economies and affecting lives. Weather
patterns are changing, sea levels are rising and weather events are becoming more extreme. The
populations of countries that have contributed the least to global warming are the most vulnerable
to death and diseases brought about by higher temperatures.
	

CoP	26:	Four	big	takeaways	for	South	Asia	
As COP26 ended with a much-debated final Glasgow Climate Pact, the discussions on progress
and implementation are underway. The world did make significant progress in many important
areas including an agreement by 130 countries to work together to halt and reverse forest loss and
land degradation by 2030, a pledge by major automakers and 30 national governments to phase
out internal combustion engines by 2040 worldwide, and approximately 100 countries signing a
global pledge to cut methane emissions by 30% by 2030.
The Rules for Carbon Trading That Were Finalized Will be Positive for South Asian
Countries - Article 6 of the Paris Agreement allows parties to lower abatement costs by working

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

together in cooperative approaches that create internationally transferred mitigation outcomes.
Negotiators finalized the rule for a global carbon finance market that would avoid loopholes and
double counting and limited the number of prior credits brought under this framework. Carbon
finance will play a critical catalytic role in leveraging private sector finance for flourishing regional
power trade between the so-called BBIN countries: Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, and Nepal. The
Royal Government of Bhutan is to set up the Bhutan Climate Fund to monetize the carbon credits
generated from the export of hydropower to India. Bangladesh and Pakistan have been selected to
participate in the Partnership for Market Implementation. A potential area of support from the
World Bank could be to help countries develop robust GHG inventories and registries.
There was no grand bargain on climate finance and this issue is likely to become prominent
in COP27 and beyond: Climate commitments by developing countries have been made in the
absence of a grand bargain on concessional climate finance, including but not limited to the $100
billion that was promised at Copenhagen 12 years ago. There were some promising signs, however,
The Glashow Pact promises to double adaptation finance by 2025 and launches a two-year
“Glasgow-Sharm el-Sheikh” work program on the global goal on adaptation. The US signed a
statement agreeing to “increase resources” for loss and damage. The UNFCCC’s Adaptation Fund
on November 8 raised a record US$ 356 million in new support from contributing national and
regional governments. While this number is minimal relative to the needs, the renewed interest
from development partners is encouraging.
Progress was made on coal and fossil fuel subsidies: The final Glasgow Climate Pact calls to
accelerate the “phase-down” of unabated coal power from plants that don’t use carbon-capture
technology . While this is a positive development, it still caused disappointment to those who
wanted a commitment to entirely phase-out coal. If the world is to have any chance of keeping
overall warming to below 1.5 degrees, then all major power producers must phase out old, highcapacity power plants with lower efficiency and higher emissions and stop any new unabated coal
capacity. On the positive side, we must recognize that for the first time in the 27 years of COP
discussions a phase-down of coal and a phase-out of fossil fuel subsidies have been mentioned and
agreed by all 200 countries. Both Pakistan and Bangladesh have cancelled all coal plants not
currently under construction. At the same time, many developing countries continue relying on
coal as a cheap and the only secure resource they have in abundance for their critical energy needs.

36

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Coal generates millions of jobs and significant revenues for governments. Reducing dependency
on coal will need significant financing, patience, and a phased approach to ensure a just transition
for the poor and vulnerable whose livelihood depends directly or indirectly on coal. It is, therefore,
significant that India, along with Indonesia, the Philippines, and South Africa, signed up as the
first recipients of a multibillion-dollar pilot program aimed at accelerating their transition from
coal power to clean energy through the Accelerating Coal Transition program of the Climate
Investment Funds.
India’s net zero+ announcements are significant: India announced not just a 2070 net-zero
target but also, perhaps even more significantly, nearer-term targets of 500 GW non-fossil fuel
energy, 50 percent of the country’s installed capacity through renewables, 45 percent reduction in
the carbon intensity of its economy, and a reduction of 1 billion tonnes carbon emissions by 2030.
The International Energy Agency’s (IEA) landmark India Energy Outlook 2021 projects India to
experience the most significant increase in energy demand of any country worldwide over the next
20 years. India has less than half of the world’s average per capita emissions . India’s development
pathway in this decade will be much more critical than its distant net-zero target. This pathway
will need to include sectoral green transition strategies for energy, transport, agriculture, water,
and urban development with detailed investment plans to be implemented in the next decade.
Taking a ‘whole-of-government’ approach to climate change will be essential so that every
government agency and ministry acts on and “owns” the risks and opportunities from climate
change.
	

South	Asia	is	on	the	front	lines	of	the	Climate	Crisis:	IPCC	
The	 6th	 Assessment	 Report,	 entitled	 “Climate	 Change	 2021:	 The	 Physical	 Science	 Basis”	 from	 the	
Intergovernmental	 Panel	 on	 Climate	 Change	 (IPCC)’s	 Working	 Group	 1,	 draws	 up	 a	 very	 precise	
inventory	 of	 climate	 physics,	 and	 is	 the	 most	 important	 source	 regarding	 scientific	 knowledge	 on	
climate	change	around	the	world.	Though	already	known,	but	it	is	now	a	fact	established	by	science	
-	human	activity	is	the	cause	of	the	atmosphere,	oceans,	and	land	warming.	Thus,	there	is	no	denying	
that	climate	change	would	function	as	a	Disaster	Risk	amplifier	-	the	frequency,	duration,	nature	and	
intensity	of	extreme	weather	events	are	bound	to	change.	This	poses	a	downside	risk	to	sustainable	
development	of	communities	and	countries.	With	this	report,	the	IPCC	examines	for	the	first	time	the	
regional	aspects	of	climate	change.	Because	of	worsening	climate	change,	the	IPCC	warns	that	each	

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

region	is	expected	to	experience	more	simultaneous	and	multiple	changes	in	climate	impact	factors,	
even	 with	 a	 global	 warming	 of	 1.5°C.	 The	 South	 Asian	 region,	 with	 its	 exponential	 development,	
would	be	more	prone	to	a	riskscape	of	uncertainty,	and	thus,	it	is	absolutely	necessary	to	understand	
the	plausible	effects	and	impacts	of	climate	change	and	develop	a	consensus	towards	climate	action.	
Climate	change	impacts	stand	to	slash	up	to	9%	off	the	South	Asian	economy	every	year	by	the	end	
of	 this	 century,	 and	 the	 human	 and	 financial	 toll	 could	 be	 even	 higher	 if	 the	 damage	 from	 floods,	
droughts	and	other	extreme	weather	events	is	included.	
South	 Asia’s	 climate	 change	 vulnerability	 has	 long	 been	 apparent.	 Rising	 sea	 levels	 and	 flooding	
threaten	 the	 coastal	 states	 of	 Bangladesh,	 India,	 Pakistan,	 and	 Sri	 Lanka.	 Landlocked	 Afghanistan,	
Bhutan,	and	Nepal	face	rising	temperatures,	drought,	and	glacial	melts.	The	region	is	also	home	to	
the	lowest	lying	country	in	the	world:	the	densely	populated	island	nation	of	the	Maldives,	which	
could	be	submerged	in	the	not-too-distant	future.	Almost	700	million	people—nearly	half	of	South	
Asia’s	 population—have	 been	 affected	 by	 at	 least	 one	 climate-related	 disaster	 in	 the	 last	 decade,	
according	to	the	World	Bank.	India	and	Pakistan	ranked	among	the	20	countries	most	affected	by	
climate	change	in	the	21st	century	in	the	think	tank	Germanwatch’s	2020	Global	Climate	Risk	Index.	
A	recent	McKinsey	Global	Institute	report	found	climate	impacts	could	rob	South	Asian	countries	of	
up	to	13	percent	of	their	GDP	by	2050.	One	of	the	IPCC	report’s	main	messages	is	there	is	still	time	to	
avert	 climate	 catastrophe	 through	 stronger	 mitigation	 policies.	 And	 to	 their	 credit,	 South	 Asian	
countries	have	produced	many	such	policies.	But	poor	monitoring	and	enforcement	and	insufficient	
funding	have	undermined	their	efficacy.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

38

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

	

Expert	Sessions	in	the	Webinar	
The webinar aimed to engage Senior Officers from Ministries/ Dept. dealing with Sustainable
Development, Economic Affairs; National Disaster Management Organizations (NDMOs) from
the SAARC Member States. The underlying objective for organizing the webinar was to
understand the physical basis of climate change and develop a fair understanding of climate risk
assessment and illustrate the plausible impacts of climate change on different sectors of
importance. The webinar was attended by 40 participants from all SAARC nations except Pakistan.
Expert Session 1: Understanding the Physical Basis of Climate Change – The global scenario
About the Speaker- Dr. G. Bala
Dr. Bala is currently a Professor at the Center for Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences, Indian
Institute of Science, Bangalore. He received his Ph.D. in atmospheric and oceanic sciences in 1994
from McGill University, Canada. After two years of Post-doc at the Geophysical Fluid Dynamics
Laboratory, Princeton University, he served as a “Physicist” (Climate Scientist) at the Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) between 1996 and 2008. Prof. Bala has served as a Lead
Author for the 5th and 6th assessment IPCC WG1 reports.
Session Highlights- The first session discussed the broader global picture of global warming or
climate change including the latest scientific assessment by IPCC. The session highlighted that
many recent changes in the climate system are unprecedented in at least the last 2000 years and
the regional changes we experience would increase with increased levels of global warming as for
every tonne of CO2 we emit into the atmosphere would add to future global warming.
	

Expert Session 2: Understanding the Physical Basis of Climate Change – The regional
scenario
About the Speaker- Dr. Krishna Achuta Rao
Dr. Krishna Achuta Rao is Professor and Head of the Centre for Atmospheric Sciences at the
Indian Institute of Technology Delhi in New Delhi, India. Prior to that he worked at the Lawrence

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Livermore National Laboratory in California. Dr. Krishna has been associated with the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) since 2001 and was a lead author on the
recently released Sixth Assessment Report contribution from Working Group-I. He is currently
involved with the United Nations’ Ocean Decade “Predicted Ocean” theme.
Session Highlights- The second session discussed the South Asian regional scenario of the
physical basis of climate change. The session highlighted that the South Asian monsoon has
weakened in the second half of the 20th century and the dominant cause of the observed decrease
is the anthropogenic aerosol forcing. The session stressed that heatwaves/humid heat stress and
extreme precipitation will be intense and frequent during the 21st century.

	
	

Session 3: Impact of Climate Change on Sustainable Development Goals in the South Asian
Region
About the Speaker- Dr. Sanjay Srivastava & Dr. Madhurima Sarkar
Dr. Sanjay K Srivastava is presently Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction at UN Economic and Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). He is the recipient of ISRO’s Team excellence
award in 2008-09 for his contributions towards harnessing space technology applications for the
benefits of rural poor. He has been a lead author of ESCAP’s flagship publication – Asia-Pacific
Disaster Report since its inception in 2010.
Dr. Madhurima Sarkar - Swaisgood is the Economics Affairs Officer in Disaster Risk Reduction
at the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UN ESCAP).
She has a PhD in Health Communication/Public Health from Florida State University. She was a

40

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Senior Researcher at Nationwide Children’s Hospital and Ohio State University focusing on
adolescent health, health communication and health equity.
Session Highlights- The third session provided details of the insights provided by the ‘Risk &
Resilience portal of UNESCAP’ for the SAARC region. During the session it was brought out that
for SAARC countries, total number of Health facilities exposed to cascading risk under MultiHazard worst case climate change scenario is 38,370 which is 67% of total health facilities in the
region. It was further revealed during the session that for SAARC countries , the total adaptation
cost is estimated at $ 56 billion with $52.2 billion for adaptation to climate related hazards and $3
billion for biological hazards and the highest total adaptation cost is recorded for India and
Pakistan.

	
	

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Session 4: Climate Change as Disaster Risk Amplifier – Evidences from the region and Way
Forward
About the Speaker- Mr. Sanjaya Bhatia
Mr. Sanjaya Bhatia, working as Head of Office, UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
Global Education and Training Institute (GETI), where he has guided the training of over 9000
government officials globally. He holds a degree in law and a master’s degree in Public
Administration from New York University. He has authored a number of publications. He has
worked with the Government of India (Indian Administrative Service), the World Bank, and the
United Nations in the field of disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation for over 30
years & has managed projects for mainstreaming of disaster risk reduction and CCA and ex-post
recovery in a diverse group of countries including Afghanistan, South Sudan, DPRK, Haiti,
Honduras, Panama, El Salvador, Ukraine, Algeria, Ethiopia, Somalia, Georgia, and others.
Session Highlights- The fourth session discussed that climate change is increasing disaster
impacts, and smart adaptation as a risk management strategy can strengthen resilience to disasters.
The session highlighted the fact that disasters undermine climate change adaptive capacity and
therefore effective disaster risk management can contribute in achieving adaptation goals. The
session ended with an underlying notion that now it is time to shift the paradigm from ‘Managing
Disaster Risks to Managing Uncertainties’. The session shared some vital reasons to aim for more
coherent CCA and DRR approaches, such as:
1. Climate change is driving increasing disaster impacts, and smart adaptation as a CC risk
management strategy can strengthen resilience to disasters (hence in Sendai Framework)
2. Disasters undermine CC adaptive capacity, and managing disaster risk can support it (hence in
Paris Agreement) and increase vulnerability
3. Both CCA and DRR support achievement of SDGs – and indeed share targets/ indicators
4. Better use of resources: data, expertise and financing
5. NOT striving for coherence presents massive RISK in both DRR and CCA
The session also highlighted ten principles of Climate Risk Management provided by United

42

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction and a framework for Climate Risk Management listed
as follow:

	
	

Session on Country Presentations
Bangladesh- Individual country presentation for Bangladesh was given by Dr. Nurun Nahar Joint
Chief (Joint Secretary) & Project Director, NRP-PD. The presentation highlights include- Disaster
Impact Assessment (DIA) tool and Guideline in National Policy Framework. It was also revealed
that following issues have been included in 8th Five Year Plan of Bangladesh:
A. Developing DIA Guidelines
B. Promote Supply Chain Resilience
C. Promote Business Continuity Plan (BCP)
D. Develop Industry Sector Risk Profile
The session also provided details about the Disaster & Climate Risk Information Platform (DRIP)
developed by Govt. of Bangladesh. DRIP is a specialized software application for strengthening
the country’s institutional capacity for mainstreaming disaster and climate risk information into
development planning & budgeting, policies and programs. DRIP’s objective include:
A. Integration of information;

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

B. Common platform, and
C. Assisting government officials with access and analysis.
D. Report generation

	
	

Bhutan- Individual country presentation for Bhutan was given by Mr. Dhendrup Tshering. The
session highlighted the ways in which Bhutan is drawing the Synergy between climate change and
National Priorities & SDGs. The session also provided the details of the progress made by Bhutan
in relevant SDGs, mainstreaming Climate Action in Development planning. Regarding progress
made in Policy to Support Climate Action following points were illustrated:

	
	

44

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

India- Individual country presentation for India was given by Mr. Ajay Katuri, ConsultantNDMA. The session provided details of the efforts taken by India in order to reduce emission
intensity of GDP by 33 to 35% by the year 2030 (below 2005 levels). Further commitments
include:
A. Achieving 40% of cumulative electric power installed capacity would be from non-fossil fuel
sources by 2030;
B. Creating an additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent through
additional forest and tree cover by 2030.
C. India’s mitigation strategies have emphasized on clean and efficient energy system, enhanced
energy efficiency, resilient urban infrastructure, safe, smart and sustainable green transportation
network, planned afforestation etc.
D. India announced schemes to align with its NDC - Swachh Bharat Mission, National Smart Grid
Mission and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation.
E. Significant leap for renewable energy - one of the world’s largest renewable energy expansion
programs.
F. India announced International Solar Alliance in COP 25. It currently has 81 member Nations
and 102 signatories. G. India has decided to revise the NAPCC in line with the NDCs under the
Paris Agreement to make it more comprehensive in terms of priority areas.
While discussing the progress made in Policy to Support Climate Action it was revealed that Prime
Minister's Council on Climate Change announced the following 8 missions under the National
Climate Action Plan for Climate Change (29 States/UTs have prepared SAPCCs):
1. National Solar Mission
2. National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efficiency
3. National Mission on Sustainable Habitat
4. National Water Mission
5. National Mission for Sustaining Himalayan Ecosystem

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

6. Green India Mission
7. National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture
8. National Mission on Strategic Knowledge for Climate Change
Maldives- Individual country presentation for Maldives was given by Ms. Mariyam Shizna. The
session highlighted that in 2011, Maldives announced it had signed the world’s first Strategic
National Action Plan that integrates disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation. In 2019,
Maldives formulated a Strategic Action Plan 2019-2030, which interrogates climate adaptation
and
mitigation into all sectors. Regarding the progress made in policy to support climate action,
following efforts taken by Maldives were discussed:
A. Improved coral reef monitoring and conservation; gender and environment sensitive financial
support to the growth and professionalization of smaller scale fisheries and agricultural production.
B. Extension of tourism in locally inhabited islands; implementation of Tourism Training program
and Fund Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs): Targeted support to green SME initiatives.
C. Significantly improved health services overall, including regional hospitals and treatment
centres; community health workers on all islands; better access to health services.
D. Climate proofing of Housing , e.g., in the context of new housing units for 20,000 families and
support to tsunami affected families.
E. Introduction of user pays principle in biodiversity and ecosystem use; increase of protection and
management of coral reefs, wetlands and mangroves; introduction of a comprehensive reef
restoration and protection mechanism.
F. Introduction of green energy label; 20% increase of renewable energy in the national energy
mix; reduction of 40 million litres of fuel used for electricity generation in 2018-2023.
Nepal- Individual country presentation for Nepal was given by Ms. Reena Chaudhary,
Environment Inspector, NDRRMA. The session highlighted that Nepal's 2016 NDC sets a target
to maintain 40% of the total area of the country under forest cover. Current forest cover is

46

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

approximately 44.74% of which 4.38% is another wooded land (OWL). The current soil organic
matter content of agricultural land is 2%. The number of the organic fertilizer production plant is
23 and number of improved cattle shed is 100,000. Currently, emission standards are not in place
for emissions in the brick and cement industries. Currently, 2.1 % of wastewater and less than 1%
of the faecal sludge is treated. In the last five years, 90 % of the population has access to electricity,
in particular, renewable energy. Of the total hydropower production of 1286 MW, private sector
developed hydropower projects contributed 651 MW, a little over half of the total hydropower
production in 2019. The cross-border energy trade has covered almost one-third of the total grid
electricity. The per capita electricity consumption has increased 260 KWh (NPC, 2020).

	

Following the Rural Energy Policy of 2006, the adoption of several policies and strategies have
provided strong and important frameworks to promote rural energy. Some important among them
are:
A. Renewable Energy Subsidy Policy, 2016,
B. Renewable Energy Subsidy Delivery Mechanism, 2016,
C. Biomass Energy Strategy, 2017
D. National Renewable Energy Framework, 2017,
E. National Energy Efficiency Strategy, 2018,
F. Climate Change Policy, 2019.

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Sri Lanka- Individual country presentation for Sri Lanka was given by Mr. Ruwan Weerasooriya.
During the session it was highlighted following Progress was made in Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs):
A. First NDCs Submission in 2016.
B. Updated NDCs submission in 2021 with the 6 Mitigation sectors, 9 Adaptation sector and the
Loss and Damage sector.
C. Established National Steering Committee for NDC implementation.
D. Established Planning & Monitoring Committees for each sectors.
E. Implementation & Monitoring Plans for all NDC sectors.
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

48

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

List of Participants

	

	

	
	

With	this	report	of	worsening

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

50

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

