Annual Report
         2018
-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Programmes and Initiatives:
-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents


Who we are								 	7

Our Vision, Our Mission								7

Our Members, Observers & Special Observers and Dialogue Partners			                  7

Message from the Outgoing Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum 			                     11

Message from the Secretary General of the Pacific Islands Forum 		          	        12

Introduction									                                                                14

2018 Performance Achievement							                                                  16

Programmes and Initiatives							                                                    20

Wider Performance Functions							                                                   23

Organisational Management and Reform						                                           24

Departure of long serving staff							                                               27

Management team								                                                              29

Audited Financial Statements							                                                  31

Forum Leaders Communiqué							                                                      41

2018 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting						                                          55

2018 Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting						                                           69




                                        Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   3
-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

4   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

49th Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting Official Photo, Nauru, 2018
                                                              © PIFS




            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report       5
-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

                 WHO WE
                 ARE




6   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM SECRETARIAT
The Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat is mandated through the 2005 Agreement establishing the Pacific
Islands Forum to provide policy advice to the Forum and coordinate the implementation of Forum
Leaders’ decisions.
The Secretariat is based in Suva, Fiji, and is led by the Secretary General of the Pacific Islands Forum, Dame
Meg Taylor of Papua New Guinea. The Secretary General is the permanent Chair of the Council of Regional
Organisations in the Pacific (CROP) and the Chair of the Specialist Sub-Committee on Regionalism.
The Secretary General also serves as the Pacific Ocean Commissioner and the Regional Authorising
Officer for the European Development Fund.
The Forum Officials Committee (consisting of nominated representatives from all Forum Governments)
is the governing body of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat. The Forum Secretariat is funded by its
member governments through assessed membership contributions, as well as voluntary and extra
budget contributions from members and partners.



Our Vision
The vision of the Forum is for a region of peace, harmony, security, social inclusion, and prosperity, so
that all Pacific people can lead free, healthy, and productive lives. The Forum seeks to realise this vision
through its mission to:
“strengthen regional cooperation and integration … in order to further Members’ shared goals of
economic growth, sustainable development, good governance and security”.
The Forum is also united by shared values, which guide all its policy making and implementation.
These have evolved over the history of the Forum, with their most recent expression articulated in The
Framework for Pacific Regionalism.



Our Mission
We support Forum Members to work together through deeper forms of regionalism in support of
sustainable development, economic growth, good governance and security.
We co–ordinate action by states and other stakeholders to achieve these objectives.
Our focus is innovative, game changing initiatives for regional action. We promote an inclusive regional
public policy approach to arrive at proposals for Leaders to consider and endorse.
Our role is primarily policy advice, coordination and ensuring the effective implementation of Forum
Leaders decisions leading to tangible improvements in the lives of the people of the Pacific. We report
annually on our performance against results.
These Pacific regional values will guide all our policymaking and implementation.



Our Members
The Pacific Islands Forum encompasses a diverse range of countries, united by their stewardship of the
“Blue Pacific” Ocean Continent, a sea of islands spanning 40 million square kilometers of ocean space.
Starting as an ad hoc meeting of 7 countries in the early 1970s, the Forum has evolved into an established
inter-governmental organisation whose 18 members include: Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of
Micronesia, Fiji, French Polynesia, Kiribati, Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New
Guinea, Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.
Associate membership of the Forum is held by Tokelau, and Wallis and Futuna (approved by the 49th PIF
Leaders meeting held in Nauru, in September 2018).




                                                     Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report      7
-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

                                                                                                 Marshal Isl


                                                             Federated States of
                                                             Micronesia

                                                Palau


                                                             Papua New
                                                             Guinea                                Nauru




                                                                                               Solomon Isla



                                                                                                  Vanuatu




                                                                                                 New Caled




                                                                                   Australia




8   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

                           Pacific Islands
                           Forum region
lands




       Kiribati




              Tuvalu
                                   Tokelau
ands

                          Samoa

                                  Niue


                  Fiji                                                        French Polynesia


                                Tonga
                                             Cook Islands
donia




                  New Zealand




                                                                     Design: Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat, 2018




                                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report     9
-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

               Australia             Cook Islands         Federated States              Fiji
                                                           of Micronesia




           French Polynesia              Kiribati               Nauru            New Caledonia




             New Zealand                  Niue                   Palau          Papua New Guinea




             Republic of                 Samoa                Solomon Islands         Tonga
           Marshall Islands




                                          Tuvalu                Vanuatu




     Observers & Special Observers
     Observer membership of the Forum is held by America Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern
     Marianas and Guam. Observer membership status is also held by the following groupings or
     organisations: The African Caribbean Pacific Secretariat, Asian Development Bank, Commonwealth
     Secretariat, International Organization for Migration, the United Nations, Western and Central Pacific
     Fisheries Commission and the World Bank Group. Timor Leste is a Special Observer of the Forum.



     Dialogue Partners
     The Pacific Islands Forum has eighteen dialogue partners: Canada, Peoples Republic of China, Cuba,
     the European Union, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
     Philippines, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom and the United States of America.


10   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

                    2018 outgoing Forum Chair, Honourable Prime Minister of Samoa,
                                                 Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi
                                                                              © PIFS




“   The full potential of the Blue Pacific to drive
    sustainable economic growth is not yet fully utilised
    – we must unlock this economic potential to support
    the modern development of our countries and people
    while ensuring good governance, and the sustainable
    development and management of our Ocean, and
    conservation of its resources.

                                             “
                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   11
-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

     Forward

                                 In the Pacific we have long known that we can achieve more together than
                                 alone.

                                 Our shared history has countless examples where our people have worked
                                 side by side to navigate the many challenges inherent in living on the vast
                                 ocean that connects us.

                           Recently through the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, Forum Leaders
     have reiterated the need for this collective action to be adaptable, innovative and inclusive to
       SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE PACIFIC
     ensure it continues to serve our people.

     TheISLANDS
         geopolitical andFORUM
                          developmentSECRETARIAT
                                     context of the Pacific is constantly changing and today the region
     faces a variety of external and internal forces that are influencing it. They include climate change,
     I am pleased
     shifts       to present
             in global       the 2018
                         power    and Annual Report andocean
                                       globalisation,  auditedmanagement
                                                              Financial Statements for the Pacific Islands
                                                                              and conservation,        rising inequality,
     Forum Secretariat.
     advances in technology, economic and environmental uncertainty, and regional and global conflict.
     First, I start by sharing my sincere thanks to the outgoing Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum, Hon Tuilaepa
     Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi, the Prime Minister of Samoa. The Prime Minister, as we know, is a one of the
     To
     greatsuccessfully       and and
            pillars of our region sustainably    addresstothese
                                      a leader dedicated          issues
                                                            not only       we must
                                                                     the well-being and continually
                                                                                          prosperity of reflect on where we are
                                                                                                        the Samoan
     and
     people,how butwe   can most
                     of Pacific     effectively
                                people across thecontinue     working
                                                   Blue Pacific          together.
                                                                continent. We thank you for your guidance and
     stewardship of regional issues and priorities during the year, and I personally thank you for your support,
     wisdom
     This       and words
             State          of advice. report helps us do that by providing a geopolitical analysis of the trends,
                     of Regionalism
     threats   and 2018,
     In September    opportunities
                          we welcomed facing    the region’s
                                          His Excellency         political
                                                          Hon Baron   Waqa, and  development
                                                                            President  of Nauru, asambitions.
                                                                                                    Chair. I warmlyIt should serve
     thank  him  for Nauru’s work so far in guiding and  fostering further progress of the regional project,
     as a conversation starter about the strategies we can employ to build a stronger and increasingly        and to
     promote the Forum’s vision for a safe and prosperous Blue Pacific.
     responsive region. I trust it will also help inform the thinking of individuals and organisations who
     I also take
     submit       the time
               policy      to note and
                        initiatives      reflect on
                                     through     ourthe challenge,
                                                      annual         not burden,
                                                                Pacific          of the obligations
                                                                         wide public                 that process.
                                                                                          consultation      chairing
     and hosting our Forum places on our members, especially the smaller countries amongst us. The time
     and effort put in by your Officials, Parliamentarians, Ministers, Leaders and often ordinary citizens is
     As I have said
     remarkable.       before,
                 All our membersif our
                                    and collective   actions
                                        the Secretariat       do notthis
                                                        acknowledge    impact
                                                                          effort,positively  onwarmth,
                                                                                  and the great the lives of people in the
                                                                                                       grace
     Pacific  then
     and resolve withwe  areitheading
                      which   is given. in the wrong direction. This report encourages us to ‘think big’ with
     regard
     2018 wastoa remarkable
                 the journey   ahead
                            year in the and  it The
                                        region. helps us map
                                                    Pacific,       out our
                                                             like others     steps
                                                                         finds itself along
                                                                                      dealingthe
                                                                                              withway.
                                                                                                   a dynamic and
     uncertain geopolitical environment. We see traditional partners resetting, new partners emerging and
     The
     others,Framework
              who have beenfornotably
                                 Pacific   Regionalism
                                       distant, re-engaging.envisages    a region
                                                              We find ourselves      oftalked
                                                                                 being    peace,
                                                                                              aboutharmony,    security, social
                                                                                                      as the Asia
     Pacific, the Indo Pacific, the small Pacific States – we are seen as a strategic, resource rich oceanscape
     inclusion, and prosperity so that all pacific people can lead free, healthy, and productive lives.
     providing valuable connections and resources in a rapidly globalising world.
     Working together I am confident this can be realised.
     Our collective response has been to define our place, on our own terms – Our Blue Pacific.
     The idea of a Blue Pacific continent, of all of us as Blue Pacific people, and the articulation of the role
     we have as stewards of this great Ocean that unites us is extremely powerful. The Blue Pacific concept
     Meg   Taylor
     continued       DBE,
               to bloom  in 2018, giving us a collective identity, a sense of place and a way to promote and
     SEcrETary          GEnEral,
     underpin our solidarity              Pacific iSlanDS
                             as a strong, independent                  foruM
                                                        grouping of sovereign  nations.
     Nauru’s successful hosting of the 2018 Pacific Leaders Meeting was a highlight of the year. Led by
     President Waqa and his entire nation, the 49th Meeting of the Forum was a focused, highly-organised and
     very memorable occasion infused with Pacific warmth and Nauruan hospitality. The theme chosen by
     Nauru “Our Islands, Our People, Our Will” was prescient and extremely helpful in guiding discussions and
     decision-making, which culminated in a Communiqué genuinely reflecting the views of all our members.
     These processes we have for working together are very important and should never be taken for granted.
     Our Blue Pacific solidarity and resolve to work together as a collective will be tested in the years to come.
     External pressures abound – political, environmental, economic and social change is frequent State ofand  rapid
                                                                                                          Pacific Regionalism Report 2017
     – and at the same time we are in the fight of our lives against climate change.
     The Boe Declaration, signed by all Forum Leaders at the meeting in Nauru, articulates this great challenge,
     simply and powerfully:
      “climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of the
     peoples of the Pacific”.



12   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

The Boe Declaration stands on the shoulders of Biketawa, and on all the occasions when the Forum has
come together, action-orientated, for the security of Pacific peoples – such as the Treaty of Rarotonga,
RAMSI, and now, our unified voice demanding global action on climate change. I am extremely proud of
the extensive public policy process undertaken to develop the Boe, especially the commitment shown
to inclusion and genuine consultation with stakeholders.
The Secretariat led this process, and I give my thanks to the staff involved for their dedication to
working with Forum Members to achieve a regional statement of such import, and to their focus now on
implementation.
A focus on action and implementation was a theme for many of our discussions during the year. The
Economic Ministers Meeting (FEMM) held in Palau focused on the need to progress work on the Pacific
Resilience Facility, in order to have a genuinely Pacific-owned, led and designed finance option available
to Forum Members. Foreign Ministers met in Apia, Samoa in August and had remarkable discussions on
geo-political issues, including the need for Forum Members to navigate these, collectively and bilaterally,
on our own terms - as masters of our own Blue Pacific destiny. We also hosted a very successful Forum
Education Ministers meeting, as part of an extremely busy regional calendar.
CROP effort is covered by its own extensive Annual Report, and those of the individual CROP agencies.
But it would be remiss as Chair of CROP not to commend CROP Heads leadership and continued effort
to implement the priorities of our Leaders and contributions to achieving the sustainable development
aspirations of the region.
A significant achievement in 2018 was the presentation of the first Quadrennial Pacific Report on
Sustainable Development in the Pacific. This impressive report analyses and assesses the Pacific’s
progress against the 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), SAMOA Pathway
and other key global instruments. It is the region’s first attempt to report globally achievements towards
sustainable development at a regional level.
The findings of the report are mixed, with some extremely concerning statistics especially in the areas
of environment, the ocean, NCDs and the role of women in the Pacific. But there is forward momentum,
and we now have a baseline for tracking progress over the coming decade. I commend all those who
worked on this report and entreat all our Members to continue their work on achieving their national
sustainable development plan objectives and priorities.
Reform and organisational development work continued at pace within the Secretariat during 2018,
many of these culminating in successful Forum Official Committee (FOC) meetings in July and December.
Highlights included the advancement and “bedding-in” of the sub-committee process for Secretariat
and PIF priorities including the work towards the agreement of the Sustainable Funding Strategy which
ensures the core operations of the Forum and its Secretariat are funded mainly by Forum Island Member
countries. The Secretariat has commenced work to implement the decision, and the revised membership
assessments have been incorporated into the 2019 Budget and out-year forecasts.
The audited Financial Statements presented in this Report demonstrate careful management of the
Secretariat’s resources, and I thank the FOC and our auditors for their thoroughness, and my management
team and staff for their diligence.
Finally, I want to close by once again emphasising the importance of our work, and the need for us to
remain steadfast to our ideals of the Blue Pacific collective. Whether we are from palm-fringed atolls of
the North, the rugged highlands of the West, the lush islands of the East or the snow-capped peaks of the
South, we are strong Pacific peoples. But we are even stronger together.




Dame Meg Taylor




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report     13
-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

          INTRODUCTION
     For almost five decades, the countries of the Pacific have addressed common interests through a variety
     of regional, approaches. The motivation for this is simple: we know that we can achieve more together,
     than alone.
     A political community of 18 independent states and self- governing territories, the Pacific Islands Forum
     seeks to address the challenges and opportunities that face the Pacific through political dialogue and
     decision-making. The Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat supports the Leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum
     through the Secretary General, to utilise regional action to realise the Leaders vision for the Pacific region.
     The Forum is also united by shared values, which guide all its policy making and implementation.
     These have evolved over the history of the Forum, with their most recent expression articulated in The
     Framework for Pacific Regionalism.


     The Framework for Pacific Regionalism
     The Framework commits Leaders to:
     “working together to address our common challenges, harness shared strengths and ensure that our
     individual and collective advancements bring practical benefits to all Pacific peoples.”
     The Framework for Pacific Regionalism recognises the need for a new, inclusive and game-changing
     approach to Pacific regionalism, that enables Leaders to lead and navigate the Pacific through the global
     and regional geopolitical forces that impact our region’s ability to realise the unmet development needs
     of Pacific Islands peoples.
     Through the Framework, Leaders recognise that Pacific Regionalism now and into the future must be
     adaptive, innovative, inclusive and most importantly, it must positively impact the lives of Pacific people.
     In support of the realisation of the Leaders’ vision, The Framework for Pacific Regionalism identifies four
     principal and enduring objectives:
     •	   Sustainable development that combines economic social, and cultural development in ways that
          improve livelihoods and well-being and use the environment sustainably;
     •	   Economic growth that is inclusive and equitable;
     •	   Security that ensures stable and safe human, environmental and political conditions for all; and,
     •	   Strengthened governance, legal, financial, and administrative systems. 




                                                                 Oceanside in Majuro, Republic Marshall Islands
                                                                                                            © PIFS



14   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

The Context for Pacific Regionalism
The global and regional geopolitical and development context is shifting and the region is faced with a
range of external and internal factors that are acting to reshape it. Such factors impact on the Forum’s
ability to advance the Leaders vision for the region and achieve the objectives of The Framework for
Pacific Regionalism.
The region faces some enduring challenges:
•	   Ongoing vulnerabilities to environmental and economic shocks;

•	   Continued dependencies on aid and external financing;

•	   Low levels of economic growth;

•	   Stubborn levels of poverty and rising inequalities;

•	   Structural constraints, generally recognised in issues such as distance from markets, small productive
     base, and high transport costs.



Interacting with these vulnerabilities and constraints is a changing global and regional context,
including:
•	   Emerging tendencies towards populism and nationalism;

•	   Challenges to multilateralism, including willingness to withdraw from regional political groupings,
     from multilateral trade and other agreements, and increased preferences for bilateral actions;

•	   Rising inequalities causing social and political instability and undermining development;

•	   Increased number of political actors and donors in the Pacific;

•	   Challenges to the stability of the global rules-based order and competition between Pacific Rim
     major powers;

•	   Continued degradation of, and contestation for, natural resources.



However, global and regional developments are also raising new opportunities for the Pacific
region to explore, such as:
•	   Increased political attention on the role of oceans in development;

•	   Advances in technology that can enable the region to overcome limitations of distance;

•	   A set of agreed values that underpin Pacific regionalism, including the cultural values that help guide
     the region;

•	   New global frameworks and methodologies for valuing the immense ecosystems and biodiversity
     of the Pacific;

•	   Shifts in the global power and with globalisation;

•	   Significant increased investment by the multilateral development institutions in the Pacific




                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report     15
-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

          2018 PERFORMANCE ACHIEVEMENTS
     49th Pacific Islands Forum
     The 49th Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting was hosted by the Government of Nauru from 3 – 6
     September, 2018. The theme of the Forum was “Building a Strong Pacific – Our People, Our Islands, Our
     Will.”
     The theme, the discussions, and decisions generated were based on a continued commitment by
     Forum Leaders to act as one Blue Pacific continent. Leaders’ week continues to be the premier political
     occasion for the region and during their time in Nauru, Leaders participated in a range of meetings and
     discussions, including: the Small Islands States Leaders meeting; PACP Leaders Meeting; and, the Forum
     Leaders dialogue sessions with Civil Society, Private Sector, Forum Dialogue Partners, Observers and
     Associate Members, and Council of Regional Organisations of the Pacific (CROP) Heads. These dialogue
     sessions provided the opportunity for interaction between Leaders and key stakeholders on key issues
     that formed part of the Forum agenda, and speak to the Forum’s ongoing work on inclusivity and
     engagement.
     The Forum Leaders Retreat, held on Wednesday 6 September, was chaired by the Honourable Baron
     Divavesi Waqa, President of Nauru. Leaders discussed a number of key policy issues, including regional
     security, climate change and disaster resilience, ocean governance, and childhood obesity and non-
     communicable diseases. In addition, Leaders adopted the PIFS Sustainable Funding Strategy, which will
     ensure equitable and sustainable member ownership of their Secretariat.
     The Retreat culminated in the endorsement and signing of The Boe Declaration on Regional Security.
     This represented a significant milestone, and builds upon the regional solidarity on security issues
     established in the Biketawa Declaration endorsed by Leaders in 2000. The Boe Declaration includes a
     particularly important statement regarding the threat of climate change, which states:
     “We reaffirm that climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, security and
     wellbeing of the peoples of the Pacific and our commitment to progress the implementation of the Paris
     Agreement”
     The Boe Declaration was well received by stakeholders and has been adopted by the Secretariat as a
     “standard” for regional public policy development and consultation processes moving forward.
     All decisions emerging from the Forum Leaders Retreat are in the 49th Pacific Islands Forum Communiqué,
     which is included in full in this report, with Wallis and Futuna agreed as Associate member.




                                                  Leaders at the 49th Pacific Islands Forum Meeting in Nauru
                                                                                                    © PIFS



16   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

3rd Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting
The 3rd Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting (FFMM) was held in Apia, Samoa on 8 August, and was chaired
by the Honourable Tuilaepa Aiono Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister of Samoa.
In support of a streamlined and strategic Forum agenda, and building on the Blue Pacific narrative, the
meeting involved a strategic discussion on the theme for the 2018 Pacific Islands Forum Leaders meeting
– ‘Building a Strong Pacific: Our People, Our Islands, Our Will’, particularly with regards to the current
geopolitical environment, and the opportunities and challenges this presents for the Pacific region.
Foreign Ministers emphasised the need for the Pacific to act now, and to act collectively, to drive the
Pacific’s own political and development ambitions and aspirations.
Recalling the 2017 commitment to strengthen collective diplomacy, to advance the Leaders’ vision
and priorities for the Pacific region, Forum Foreign Ministers endorsed a Strategy for Pacific Islands
Forum International Engagement and Advocacy. Foreign Ministers approved, under the Strategy, four
priorities for strengthened international advocacy and engagement in 2019, being: climate change
and resilience; sustainable ocean management, use and conservation; regional security; and the 2030
Agenda, including the S.A.M.O.A. Pathway. Forum Foreign Ministers also considered, contributed to and
commended the endorsement of key Forum initiatives ahead of their consideration by Forum Leaders
in Nauru - including the ‘Biketawa Plus Declaration’ (now known as The Boe Declaration); securing the
Pacific region’s maritime boundaries; a new aerial surveillance programme for the region; and Wallis and
Futuna’s application for Associate Membership of the Forum.


21st Forum Economic Ministers Meeting
The 21st Forum Economic Ministers Meeting (FEMM) was convened from 26 – 27 April, in Koror, Palau.
Economic Ministers deliberated on issues facing Pacific Island economies based on the theme ‘Building
Economic Resilience of the Pacific Island Countries through Sustainable Financing Flows’. Key issues
discussed by the Economic Ministers included:
•	       The Pacific Resilience Facility;
•	       Climate Change and Disaster Risk Finance;
•	       Co-Investment on Infrastructure Development in the Pacific; and,
•	       Pacific Islands Climate Change Insurance Facility (PICCIF).

The Ministers’ meeting was followed by a Dialogue between Economic Ministers, and the Private Sector
and Civil Society Organisations, as well as the inaugural roundtable meeting with Development Partners.
In line with the FEMM Charter, the next two meetings of the Forum Economic Ministers, in 2019 and 2020,
will be held at the Forum’s Headquarters in Suva, Fiji.
All decisions arising from the 2018 FEMM are available in the 2018 FEMM Outcomes Statement and are
included in full, in this report. This includes the Outcomes of the Joint Dialogue of Economic Ministers,
the Private Sector and Civil Society Organisations, as well as the inaugural Development Partners
Roundtable with Ministers


2018 Forum Education Ministers Meeting
The Forum Education Ministers (FEdMM) met on 24 May, in the Republic of Nauru, and was held in
conjunction with the meeting of the University of the South Pacific (USP) Council. Ten member countries
(including associate member Tokelau) were represented at ministerial-level, while the remainder were
represented by senior officials.
The main focus of the 2018 FEdMM was on the endorsement of the new regional education framework,
the Pacific Regional Education Framework (PacREF). The Pacific Heads of Education Systems Small
Working Group (PHES SWG), who were tasked by their colleagues in 2015 to develop the new regional
education framework presented it to Ministers for their consideration and endorsement.
In their deliberations, Ministers endorsed in principle the new Framework and requested the Forum
Secretariat to develop a Terms of Reference for its governance structure, to be circulated out-of-session,
for approval. The PacRef was formally circulated with the recommendation for USP to be responsible
for the coordination of its implementation, as well as organising future meetings of Education Ministers.




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report    17
-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

     UNFCCC 24th Session of the Conference of Parties (COP 24)
     COP 24 held from 2 -14 December in Katowice, Poland, provided a good opportunity to promote the
     Framework for Resilient Development in the Pacific (FRDP) and its innovative role in driving risk
     management considerations for all resilient and sustainable development initiatives.
     The Secretariat also facilitated two negotiation training opportunities for Pacific women, in partnership
     with the Women’s Environment & Development Organisation (WEDO) and DFAT.
     Technical support was provided to Forum Island Countries during the UNFCCC meetings in Bonn (May,
     2018), Bangkok (September, 2018), and the Pacific Pre–COP meeting held in Nadi in late October. Specific
     policy advice and support was provided to Forum Island Countries on climate finance at the COP24.


     8th Pacific Islands Leaders Meeting (PALM 8)
     The 8th Pacific Islands Leaders Meeting with Japan (PALM 8) was held on 18-19 May 2018 in Iwaki-City,
     Japan, with a pre-PALM 8, Senior Officials Meeting (SOM) held on 15 March in Tokyo. Occurring triennially,
     PALM is a meeting between Japan’s Prime Minister and Pacific Island Forum Leaders.
     All Forum Members, with Samoa as Forum Chair, and with the support of the Secretariat and CROP
     agencies attended. Forum members took a considered and comprehensive approach in preparing for
     PALM 8, with seven preparatory meetings held in the lead up to the Leaders’ meeting. This approach was
     designed to identify and progress Pacific priorities for PALM 8, and to ensure a cohesive and collective
     approach to the meeting, based on the Blue Pacific narrative.
     The high level of participation from Members, supported by CROP agencies, at the PALM 8 meeting resulted
     in the achievement of Pacific priorities for the meeting namely promoting the Blue Pacific narrative and
     approach; seeking stronger action on climate change; acknowledging the need to strengthen sustainable
     ocean management and conservation including addressing marine debris and pollution in the ocean
     from World War II shipwrecks; garnering support for the Pacific’s ‘zone based management’ approach to
     fisheries; and, strengthening consultation and cooperation on PALM, including a commitment to look at
     hosting a future inter - ministerial level meeting in the Pacific region.
     The solidarity and collectivism of Forum Members at PALM 8 demonstrated the benefits and potential of
     strengthened Forum international advocacy and engagement.




                                                              Leaders at the PALM 8 meeting in Tokyo, Japan
                                                                                                       © PIFS




18   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

PACER Plus
At their fortieth meeting in Cairns, Australia in August 2009, Pacific Islands Forum Leaders launched
the PACER Plus negotiations with a view to designing a forward looking agreement that would assist
the Forum Island Countries to achieve economic growth and sustainable development, and enhance
their participation in international trade through deeper trade and economic cooperation between
themselves, and Australia and New Zealand.
In September 2015 at the 46th PIF meeting held in Papua New Guinea, Leaders further renewed their
commitment to the PACER Plus negotiations as an instrument for promoting regional integration in
the Pacific. On 20 April 2017 fourteen negotiating parties concluded negotiations on the legal text and
market access of the PACER Plus.
It is a landmark trade and development agreement for the Pacific region. There are currently eleven
signatories (Australia, Cook Islands, Kiribati, Nauru, New Zealand, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga,
Tuvalu, Vanuatu), who in addition to signing PACER Plus, have signed an accompanying Labour Mobility
Arrangement.
New Zealand became the first PACER Plus signatory country to ratify PACER Plus on 24 October 2018. In
December 2018 Australia also ratified PACER Plus. The remaining nine signatories are currently focused
on progressing towards ratification of PACER Plus to allow its entry into force as soon as possible.


Election Monitoring
In 2018, the Forum Secretariat supported successful PIF election observation missions in French
Polynesia, Cook Islands, New Caledonia and Fiji.
The 2018 Forum Foreign Ministers meeting agreed that the Forum would have a standing invitation to
observe all national elections of Forum members, subject to a formal invitation from the host country
election observation. It is an opportunity to build rapport and capacity amongst the Forum’s election
management bodies, government ministries and institutions.
The nature of each observation mission differ, given the size and electoral context of each country. This
Forum initiative is premised on the respect for national laws and context and a reflection of the Forum’s
commitment to The Biketawa Declaration, as well as the Forum’s Principles of Good Leadership which
articulate the Forum’s commitment to the upholding of democratic processes and institutions.




                                                      PIFS Election Observer Group in New Caledonia
                                                                                               © PIFS




                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report    19
-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

          PROGRAMMES AND INITIATIVES:
     IMPLEMENTATION AND REPORTING ON OTHER
     LEADERS/MINISTERS’ MANDATES
     Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF)
     The key objective of the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF) is to build resilience of Forum Islands countries,
     through upfront investment in preparedness to reduce the impacts from natural hazard risk and climate
     change, including to minimise future loss of lives, displacement of people, and extensive economic
     losses. The PRF’s objective also reflects Forum Islands countries national development priorities to
     better absorb economic, social and environmental shocks and stresses through risk-informed and
     resilient development initiatives.
     The Secretariat carried out extensive consultations with Forum Members, development partners,
     multilateral development banks, and relevant technical experts on the PRF from December 2017 –
     February 2018, with guidance and support of the FEMM Troika and a technical working group (TWG). The
     PRF proposal was then tabled and endorsed by Economic Ministers at the 2018 FEMM held in Palau, in
     April 2018. The Ministers noted that technical work to establish the PRF will be required, and supported
     the next phase of technical analysis and assessments for establishing and operationalising the PRF, with
     expectation of continued close oversight and guidance from the FEMM Troika and the Technical Working
     Group.
     The 2018 FEMM also formalised the Technical Working Group to comprise the existing members (Cook
     Islands, Samoa, Palau, Fiji and New Zealand) and the proposal be considered by Leaders at the 49th
     Pacific Islands Forum in Nauru.




                                                                                   Pacific Resilience Partnership
                                                                                                          © PIFS


20   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Terms of Reference for the next phase of work commenced in November 2018, with details such as,
operational structure, governance arrangement and products, expected to be considered by the
Economic Ministers at the next FEMM, scheduled for May 2019, in Suva, Fiji.


Security
At their 2017 meeting in Apia, Samoa, Leaders endorsed the development of a ‘Biketawa Plus’ security
declaration that would recognise an expanded concept of security, and directed the Secretariat to
undertake consultations and develop a new regional security declaration for their consideration at their
49th meeting in Nauru, 2018. The Secretariat undertook extensive consultations with Members, CROP,
regional law enforcement and legal secretariats, civil society and the public through online submission
platforms, questionnaires and face to face consultations.
A policy paper titled Biketawa Plus – Towards a Comprehensive Regional Security Declaration was
developed, based on the consultation process. It was considered by a Reference Group of Pacific Experts
and Members during the Regional Workshop on Biketawa Plus in mid-June 2018.
The outcomes of the Members workshop was used to develop a draft declaration which was then taken
through Forum processes resulting in the endorsement of the Boe Declaration on Regional Security, by
Leaders in Nauru, and directives for the development of an Action Plan, by November 2018.
In October 2018, the Secretariat circulated a consultation paper to assist Members and the Secretariat
to develop an action plan for implementing The Boe Declaration on Regional Security. To support the
development of this, a Members workshop was convened on 26 November 2018 with the intention of
developing a framework for implementation, to be further consulted with Members in early 2019 for
consideration by the Forum Troika in mid-2019.




                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   21
-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

     Sustainable Development
     As the Chair of the CROP and the CROP Sustainable Development Working Group, the Secretariat led and
     worked closely with member countries, CROP and UN agencies, and development partners to coordinate
     regional efforts to implement The Pacific Roadmap for Sustainable Development (PRSD), endorsed by
     Pacific Islands Forum Leaders in September 2017. Two key priorities for 2018 were the development
     of the first Quadrennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report (PSDR), and providing joint regional
     support to the Republic of Kiribati for their Voluntary National Review for the 2030 Agenda and SDGs.
     The Quadrennial PSDR, and SDG progress wheels were endorsed by Leaders at their meeting in Nauru,
     and tabled at the UN General Assembly in September. In doing so the Pacific became the only region
     globally to report on SDG progress at a regional level, and continues to lead the way on regional
     approaches to SDG localisation, peer–to–peer learning, innovation and accelerated implementation.


     Small Islands States Strategy
     The Smaller Island States (SIS) Strategy remains a demonstration of political cohesion amongst the SIS
     member states against their stated areas of priority. The SIS has become a model for deeper regionalism
     by focusing on achieving mutual nationally-derived benefits through collective and collaborative effort.
     Successful implementation of the Strategy is therefore dependent on the ownership and combined
     efforts of SIS governments and all other Pacific stakeholders at large, working in partnership.
     In 2018, the Secretariat progressed work in the priority areas of labour mobility, fisheries, upper
     airspace and air/sea transportation. Additionally, in terms of climate change, SIS Leaders agreed to (i)
     infrastructure resilience, (ii) sustainable transport, and (iii) climate change insurance facility as the three
     priority thematic areas for joint SIS proposals to the Green Climate Fund (GCF).




                                                Smaller Islands States Leaders following their meeing in Nauru
                                                                                                            © PIFS




22   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

    WIDER FUNCTIONS
Regional Authorising Officer
The last 12 months have seen significant progress with the programming of 11th European Development
Fund (EDF) Pacific Regional Indicative Programme (PRIP). Commitment of EU funds follows a two stage
process of signature of the Financing Agreements, which is the overall legal document committing the
international organisation and the European Union to finance the programme. Once the Financing
Agreement has been signed, the funds are to be ‘committed’ within two calendar years, by signature of
a Delegation or Co-Delegation Agreement. “Pillar Assessed” International Organisations are allowed to
use their own procedures for Implementation.
Progress during this year included signature of a financing agreement of €17 million PACWASTE PLUS led
by SPREP as the Lead Agency. Other delegation agreements signed this year included the Elimination
of Violence against Women (led by UN Women), Technical Cooperation and Capacity Building Facility
(led by ORAO) and the Pacific –European Union Marine Partnership (led by SPC), and Public Finance
Management (PFM)
Key meetings held this year included the Pacific Regional Steering Committee (PRSC) held on 8 – 9
February, chaired by Secretary General Meg Taylor as Regional Authorizing Officer (RAO) and Pierre
Amilhat, Director for International Cooperation, Asia, Middle East/ Gulf and the Pacific. Additionally, the
Clean Pacific Round Table (CPRT) was held on August 20 – 25, where a keynote speech was given by the
Prime Minister of Fiji, the Honorable Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama.


Office of the Pacific Ocean Commissioner
To support its key deliverables, the Office of the Pacific Ocean Commissioner (OPOC) was provided
funding by Australia and New Zealand to support three full-time staff including an Ocean Analyst and
Manager, Ocean Communication Officer and an Ocean Management Officer.
Since taking up office, these staff have carried out substantive consultations with an extensive number
of stakeholders including Governments, Regional and International Organisations, Civil Society and
Non-Government Organisations who comprise the Pacific Ocean Alliance (POA), which is facilitated by
the Pacific Ocean Commissioner (the incumbent PIF Secretary General), on how best to proceed with
the work of the OPOC and accelerating coordinated action on regional ocean policies and priorities.
This has included reviewing existing M&E and reporting processes related to the Framework for Pacific
Oceanscape, Declarations, Voluntary Commitments to UN 2017 Ocean Conference and the progress of
SDG14 implementation.
In August, OPOC led regional preparations through the coordination and mobilisation of CROP and
accelerating coordinated action on regional policies and priorities. This has included Pacific Ocean
Alliance (POA) partners to provide technical advice and support for Member delegations during the 1st
session of the BBNJ Intergovernmental Conference (IGC) held at the UN Headquarter in New York from
4 – 17th September 2018. Moving forward and in preparation for IGC 2 in March 2019, OPOC will convene
a workshop in January 2019.
The first issue of the OPOC BBNJ Newsletter series was launched, and supported the Pacific Blue
Carbon Workshop and the 3rd Annual International Partnership for Blue Carbon in partnership with the
Australian Government and Conservation International at the Pacific Island Forum Secretariat from 18
– 21 Sept 2018.
OPOC also convened a side-event at the 49th PIF Leaders meeting in Nauru to facilitate engagement
with the media.
The office will also facilitate consultation on lead-up process towards the UN Ocean Conference in
Lisbon, Portugal and Our Ocean Conference in Palau, both in 2020. Consultation and online surveys
to gauge stakeholder feedback to the design and content of the OPOC Website is on-going, with the
website anticipated to go live in 2019.




                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report     23
-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

          ORGANISATIONAL MANAGEMENT
     Organisational reforms
     Support of FOC Sub-Committees

     •	   The Secretariat has continued to work closely with the Audit and Risk Sub-Committee (ARSC),
          the Sub-Committee on Prioritisation and Funding (SCPF) and the Remuneration Sub-Committee
          (RemSC). It has supported four meetings of the ARSC, two meetings of the SCPF and four meetings
          of the RemSC in 2018.

     •	   The Secretariat commenced development of its monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework and
          engaged ArcEconomics to assist it with this work. This project will engage PIFS managers and staff in
          developing and implementing enhanced monitoring and evaluation processes. The initial focus of
          the M&E work is on one area will be on Increasing Economic Prosperity (Strategic outcome C in the
          PIFS statement of intent) with the expectation that the learning will be transferable or adaptable to
          areas within the Secretariat’s portfolio of responsibilities.

     •	   FOC finalised its recommendations for Forum Leaders on the Sustainable Funding Strategy in
          December 2018. The strategy was approved by Forum Leaders on 5 September. The adoption of
          the Strategy will provide a sustained, steady increase in assessed membership contributions, which
          will stabilise budget income and help addresses the structural budget and financial challenges that
          have become apparent in the last 5 years. The Secretariat has commenced work to implement the
          decision, and the revised membership assessments have been incorporated into the 2019 Budget
          and out-year forecasts.

     •	   The Secretariat has been reviewing and reforming its extra budget approval processes to ensure
          that identified risks are properly managed in the negotiation and signature phases. It has developed
          a five-phase life-cycle approach to monitoring extra budget funding that comprises:




                                                                                      Forum Officials Meeting
                                                                                                       © PIFS


24   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

1.	      Identification of donors & their priorities;
2.	      Project/programme planning and negotiation
3.	      Funding documents clearance and signature
4.	      Funding and implementation of the Project/Programme
5.	      Wind up

As part of its next phase of its corporate reforms the Secretariat is undertaking a business process
improvement programme. The desired outcomes of this corporate initiative is to have processes and
systems that:

•	       are simplified and streamlined;
•	       are automated;
•	       enable information checks to be done automatically;
•	       allow business information to be pulled from systems on demand.

The Secretariat unveiled its new, refreshed website in April 2018. This website provides a comprehensive
repository of Secretariat documents and is a key component in the Secretariat’s revitalised
communications strategy to promote forum meetings, the Blue Pacific’s prioritised agenda, and The
Framework for Pacific Regionalism. Its responsive format is more suitable for reading with handheld
devices.
The Secretariat conducted regular reviews of its performance against its Key Results Framework,
reviewing progress against objectives as these are stated across individual KRAs, expenditure, and
risk management. Three such review took place in 2018; 21-23 May; 25-26 September; and, from 2-5
December, 2018.




                                                  Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   25
-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

                                                      Clean Pacific participants at the Secretariat, Suva, Fiji
                                                                                                       © PIFS

26   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

     DEPARTURE OF LONG SERVING STAFF
Several long standing Secretariat staff completed their tenure in
2018;

•	   Jioji Boila retired after serving six Secretary Generals as the official driver for 28 years
The following staff departed the Secretariat after completing nine years service to the region:
•	   Alfred Schuster – Development Corporation Adviser
•	   Lorraine Kershaw – International Legal Adviser
•	   Steven Francis – Law Enforcement Capacity Development Officer




                                                      Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   27
-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

                  Management
                  Team




28   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

HOWHO
AREWE ARE
       WE ARE
                         WHO WE ARE
                                  WHO WE ARE
  ANAGEMENT TEAM
      MANAGEMENT TEAM
                                                                             MANAGEMENT TEAM

HO WE ARE
E AREWE WE
WHO WHO
HO WE
    WHO AREARE
      AREWE ARE                                                                                                                                35
                                                                        WHO WE ARE                                                        35
                  DAME MEG TAYLOR                       WHODAME
                                                             WEWHOAREWE ARE
                                                                MEG TAYLOR
                          DAME MEG TAYLOR                                             DAME MEG TAYLOR
           Secretary General                                           Secretary GeneralDAME MEG TAYLOR
  ANDIE FONG TOY       Secretary General                                          CRISTELLE    PRATT
                                                                                   Secretary General
                                                                                                   CRISTELLE PRATTCRISTEL
                                                                                                                    DAME
                    ANDIE FONG TOY                               Secretary General
                                                                                              Secretary General       Secre
eputy                                                                                Deputy Secretary General
ral Secretary     GeneralANDIE FONG TOY
             Deputy Secretary General                     ANDIE FONG Deputy                    Deputy Secre
                                                                           TOY Secretary General
                                                                                                           D
onomic
and       Governance   and                                    Corporate   Services  and          Corporate
                                                                            Corporate Services and          S
            Economic Governance      and General
                        Deputy Secretary                Deputy  Secretary General
olitical Governance                                         Strategic Partnerships   and
nd           Politicaland
                      Governance    and
                       Economic Governance    and      Economic GovernanceStrategic            Strategic Par
                                                                               and Partnerships and        St
eSercurity Programme
               SercurityPoliticalSecretary
                         Programme          General
                                  Governance and            Coordination    Programme
                                                                          Coordination         Coordination
                                                                                        Programme          C
                                              Secretary Political
                                                        General   Governance  and
                                  Sercurity Programme
                                            Dame MEG
                                            DAME  Meg TA
                                                      Taylor
                                                        YLOR
                                                         Dame MEG Sercurity
                                                              Meg TA
                                                                  Taylor    Programme                                  Secretary General
                                                         DAME       YLOR
                                                 Secretary General                                                         Dame Meg Taylor
 NDIE FONG TOY                                                      Secretary General             CRISTELLE PRATT DAME MEG TAYLOR
                  ANDIE FONG DAME  TOY MEG TAYLOR       DAME MEG TAYLOR                                            CRISTELLE     PRATT
eputy      Secretary
                Deputy
uty Secretary General
                           General
                              Secretary      GeneralDAME MEG TAYLOR        DAMEDeputy
                                                                              ANDIE  MEGFONG  Secretary
                                                                                             TA YLOR
                                                                                               TOY Deputy
                                                                                               Deputy
                                                                                                              General
                                                                                                               Secretary
                                                                                                        Secretary General
                                                                                                                             Secretary
                                                                                                                              General
                                                                                                                                       General

 omicANDIE
                Deputy
          Andie Fong
       Governance
                        Secretary
                         ToyAndie Fong
                    andTOY            Secretary General
                                   General                 Secretary
                                                      Secretary         General
                                                                   General  Deputy
                                                                              Secretary   Secretary
                                                                                              Cristelle
                                                                                            General      General
                                                                                                         Pratt
                                                                                                 Corporate
                                                                                                                 Deputy
                                                                                                                DAME
                                                                                                            Services
                                                                                                                        Secretary
                                                                                                                       MEG   TA
                                                                                                                     and Pratt
                                                                                                                                  General
                                                                                                                                YLORDAME    MEG TAY
TOY            FONG
               Economic    Governance  and Toy                              Deputy        CRISTELLE
                                                                                    Secretary  General    PRATTCristelle
                                                                                                                 CRISTELLE
                                                                                                                  Corporate     PRATT
                                                                                                                            Services and
  ANDIE     FONG andTOYANDIE FONG TOY                                                                       CRISTELLE     PRATT  CRISTELLE
                                                                                                                                       Secretary PRAT
RECTORS
tical Governance                                                                         AndieStrategic
                                                                                                 Fong  Toy        Secretary
                                                                                                         Partnerships       General
                                                                                                                      andPartnerships            Gene

   DIRECTORS
                Political Governance and                      ANDIE FONG   Economic    Governance
                                                                                TOYANDIE       FONGandTOY       Strategic              and
       DIRECTORS                                                       DIRECTORS
General
   Deputy
 rcurity
 eputy      Secretary
         Programme
        Secretary       General
                   General
                       Deputy
                  Sercurity     Secretary General
                             Programme                                                Deputy Coordination
                                                                            Political GovernanceSecretary  General
                                                                                                  and Deputy  Deputy  Secretary
                                                                                                              Programme
                                                                                                                 Secretary       General
                                                                                                                           General
                                                                                                                 Coordination Deputy
                                                                                                                              ProgrammeSecretary Gen
                                                           Deputy
                                                            DeputySecretary   General
                                                                     SecretarySercurity
                                                                               General
                                                                                   Deputy   SecretaryServices
                                                                                         Programme    General and
nce
  Economic
      and     Governance
 onomic Governance           and
                      Economic
                         and Governance and                                             Corporate              Corporate
                                                                                                          Corporate       Services
                                                                                                                     Services and   and Services a
                                                                                                                               Corporate
                                                                 Cristelle
                                                           Economic        Pratt Economic
                                                                       Governance    and      Governance   and
 cePolitical
    and Governance
 olitical    Governance andandGovernance and
                       Political                                                      Strategic  PartnershipsStrategic
                                                                                                                and
                                                                                                        Strategic      Partnerships
                                                                                                                  Partnerships  and and
                                                                                                                             Strategic  Partnerships
mme   Sercurity Programme                                   Political Governance   Political
                                                                                    and      Governance
                                                                                      Coordination        andCoordination
                                                                                                      Programme             Programme
  Sercurity Programme    Sercurity Programme                 Sercurity Programme     Sercurity Programme Coordination  Programme
                                                                                                                              Coordination   Program

ECTORS
   DIRECTORS                                                            DIRECTORS

RS
 IRECTORS
RECTORS
      DIRECTORS                                         DIRECTORS
                                                               DIRECTORS


                      Director                         Director                         Director                       Director
                       Policy                  Governance & Engagement         Programmes & Implementation         Corporate Services
                    Paki Ormsby                     Sione Tekiteki                      Shiu Raj                     Simon Clegg
                                                                                        Director                                  Director
         Director           Director                   Director          Director          Director
                                                                                    Director
                                                                             Economic Governance
                                                                                  Political Governance & Secu
Economic Governance      Political
            Economic Governance
                          SHIU RAJ Governance
                                       Political & Security
                                                 Governance   SHIU
                                                              &Shiu
                                                           SHIU
                                                        DESNA   RAJ  RAJ
                                                                    Corporate
                                                                 Security
                                                                    Raj
                                                                  SOLOFA      Services
                                                                                Corporate
                                                                               DESNA SOLOFADESNA
                                                                                            Services SOLOFA
                                                                                             Sione Tekiteki
                                                                                            ALEX   KNOX     ALEX K
    SHIU
DESNA   SHIU
          Shiu  RAJ
           RAJ Raj
             SOLOFA   SHIU
                  DESNA   SHIU
                            Shiu   RAJ SOLOFA
                                  Raj
                             RAJ DESNA
                               SOLOFA             DESNA
                                                     Sione
                                                  ALEX         SOLOFA
                                                     DESNATekiteki
                                                              SOLOFA
                                                             KNOX     DESNA
                                                                         SioneKNOX
                                                                        ALEX
                                                                      ALEX         SOLOFA
                                                                                  Director
                                                                                 Tekiteki
                                                                                 KNOX
                                                                                           Economic
                                                                                     Director
                                                                                            ALEX       ALEX
                                                                                                      Simon
                                                                                                Economic
                                                                                                   KNOX
                                                                                                   SIMON  SIMONKNOX
                                                                                                             Clegg
                                                                                                                 CLEGG
                                                                                                              CLEGG    ALEX
                                                                                                                 Director
                                                                                                                   SIMON
                                                                                                                          Political
                                                                                                                      SimonSIMON    KNOX
                                                                                                                                 Clegg
                                                                                                                                  Director        SIMS
                                                                                                                                               Director
                                                                                                                                     CLEGGPolitical
                                                                                                                                 CLEGG
 irector Economic Director
                                  Director
                           Economic
                                             Economic
                                  Director PoliticalDirector          Director
                                                      Director Political
                                                                                   Director
                                                                                     Governance
                                                                               Strategic
                                                                                               Political         Governance   Director
                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                         Director Strategic DirectorDirectorDirector
                                                                                                                                        Strategic
                                                                                                                                               Partnersh
   Director          Director
              Economic          Economic
                                       Governance                      Director
                                                               Political                 Governance
                                                                                    Political
                                                                                   Governance
                                                                                     Programme      Director
                                                                                                    and       Strategic           Governance
                                                                                                                                  Strategic
                                                                                                                              Partnerships
                                                                                                               Security Programme               and
                                                                                                                                              and
                                                                                                                                            Coordination
 Director
   Governance      Director
             Political
                     GovernancePolitical
                                  Governance   Director            Director
                                                            Strategic
                                               and Governance      and          Strategic
                                                                      Partnerships   and Partnerships
                                                                                         Programme          Corporate Director
                                                                                                         Director
                                                                                                       and                     Corporate
                                                                                                                               Security  Programme
       Governance
 Governance
   Programme             Governance
                   Governance
                  andProgramme        Programme
                                     and
                                Security Programme Governance
                                               Partnerships            Governance
                                                                      and
                                                                   Partnerships
                                                    Security Programme
                                                                   and
                                                                Coordination
                                                                      SHIU RAJ  Securityand
                                                                                Programme  and
                                                                                     Coordination   Partnerships
                                                                                             Programme
                                                                                                   Programme
                                                                                             SHIU RAJ  Corporate
                                                                                                      DESNA
                                                                                                                    Partnerships
                                                                                                             Servicesand
                                                                                                             SOLOFA Coordination
                                                                                                                                Servicesand
                                                                                                                        Corporate
                                                                                                                          DESNA SOLOFA    Programme
                                                                                                                                         ALEX  KNOX
                                                                                                                                                       C
    Programme
ecurity Programme Programme
             Security Programme
                              Coordination      Security
                                  Security Coordination
                                           Programme
                                           Programme
                                              Director      Programme
                                                            Programme
                                                       Economic       Coordination
                                                                 Director               Coordination
                                                                                 Services
                                                                          Economic
                                                                              Director   Programme
                                                                                       Political   DirectorProgramme
                                                                                                  Services     Director Strategic S
                                                                                                            Political
     SHIU RAJ
        SHIU   DESNASHIU
             RAJ           RAJ
                      SOLOFADESNA  SOLOFA
                               DESNA  SOLOFADESNA
                                          ALEX   KNOX SOLOFA
                                                           ALEX   KNOX
                                                                ALEX  KNOX     ALEX
                                                                           SIMON   CLEGGKNOXSIMON   CLEGG
                                                                                                 SIMON     CLEGG   SIMON CLEG
                                                                 Governance
                                                                       Pacific Islands Governance
                                                                                                Governance
                                                                                       Forum Secretariat      and
                                                                                                         | 2018 AnnualGovernance
                                                                                                                       Report     and 29 and
                                                                                                                                 Partnerships
micDirector Economic
      Director EconomicDirector
                   Director     Economic
                            Political Director Political
                                          Director Political Director
                                                       Director
                                                                        STAFF PHOTO 2015
                                                                      Political
                                                                StrategicDirector
                                                                 Programme         Strategic
                                                                              Director          Director
                                                                                        Strategic
                                                                                       Programme Director
                                                                                              Security    StrategicDirector
                                                                                                       Programme              CoordinationDirector
                                                                                                                        Director
                                                                                                                    Security Programme     Programm
                                                                                                                                                  Co
-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

                  Audited
                  Financial
                  Statements
                  2018




30   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Secretary General’s Statement

I am pleased to present the Secretariat’s financial statements and independent auditors’ report
for the year ended 31 December 2018.

During the year, we expended FJD39m, while our total cash and investment holdings at year
end amounted to FJD30m.

I remain conscious of the responsibility entrusted to the Secretariat by Members of the Pacific
Islands Forum, and by our development partners, to manage such a substantial level of funding.
I therefore reaffirm our commitment to ensure that these financial statements provide an
accountable and transparent summary of the Secretariat’s financial activities for the 2018
financial year.

In my opinion:

(a)     the accompanying General fund statement of comprehensive income is drawn up so as
        to give a true and fair view of the results of the Secretariat for the year ended 31
        December 2018;

(b)     the accompanying statement of financial position is drawn up so as to give a true and
        fair view of the state of the Secretariat’s affairs as at 31 December 2018;

(c)     the accompanying statement of changes in funds is drawn up so as to give a true and
        fair view of the movement in funds of the Secretariat for the year ended 31 December
        2018; and

(d)     the accompanying statement of cash flows is drawn up so as to give a true and fair view
        of the cash flows of the Secretariat for the year ended 31 December 2018.



Dated at Suva this                         day of                             2019




                             __________________________

                                   Meg Taylor, DBE
                                   Secretary General




Financial Statements                        -1-                            31 December 2018



                                              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   31
-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                        2




               Independent Auditor’s Report

               To the Members of Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat

               Report on the audit of the financial statements

               Opinion

               We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat (the
               ‘Secretariat’), which comprise the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2018, and the
               general fund statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in funds and statement of
               cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
               significant accounting policies.

               In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial
               position of the Secretariat as at 31 December 2018, and of its financial performance and cash flows
               for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.

               Basis for Opinion

               We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Our
               responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the
               Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report.

               We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
               for our opinion.

               Independence

               We are independent of the Secretariat in accordance with the ethical requirements of the
               International Ethics Standards Board for Accountant’s Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
               (IESBA Code) that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Fiji, and we have fulfilled
               our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA Code.

               Other information

               Members and management are responsible for the other information. The other information
               comprises the information included in the Secretariat’s Annual Report for the year ended 31
               December 2018 (but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon).

               Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express
               any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

               In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
               information identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
               inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise
               appears to be materially misstated.



               Financial Statements                             - -                               31 December 2018




32   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

                                                                                                             3




If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard, except
that not all other information was available to us at that date of our signing.

Responsibilities of Members and Management for the Financial Statements

Members and management are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and for such internal
control as the members and management determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the members and management are responsible for assessing
the Secretariat’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the members and management
either intend to liquidate the Secretariat or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so.

The members and management are responsible for overseeing the Secretariat’s financial reporting
process.

Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of the financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:

 • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to
   fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
   evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
   detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error,
   as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
   override of internal control.

 • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
   procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
   opinion on the effectiveness of the Secretariat’s internal control.

 • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
   estimates and related disclosures made by the members and management.




                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report               33
-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

                                                                                                                         4




                • Conclude on the appropriateness of the members and managements use of the going concern
                  basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty
                  exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Secretariat’s ability
                  to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required
                  to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements or,
                  if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
                  evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions
                  may cause the Secretariat to cease to continue as a going concern.

                • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the
                  disclosures, and whether the financial statements represents the underlying transactions and
                  events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.

               We communicate with members and management regarding, among other matters, the planned
               scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies
               in internal control that we identify during our audit.

               Restriction on Use

               This report is made solely to the Secretariat’s Members, as a body. Our audit work has been
               undertaken so that we might state to the Members those matters we are required to state to them in
               an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept
               or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Secretariat and the Members as a body, for our
               audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.




34   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

GENERAL FUND STATEMENT OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Year Ended 31 December 2018


                                              Note              2018             2017


                                                                 FJD              FJD
Income


Contributions from Members                     3            5,057,820        5,057,820
Interest income                                              241,547           144,001
Recoveries income                                           1,637,650        1,615,850
Administration fees received                                 978,590           604,721
Other income                                   4          12,557,207        12,932,658
                                                          20,472,814       20,355,050


Expenditure


Economic Governance                           5(a)          4,022,630        4,007,666
Political Governance and Security             5(b)          2,448,483        2,379,321
Strategic Partnerships and Coordination       5(c)          3,227,114        3,107,220
Corporate Services                            5(d)         6,749,614         5,710,443
Management of the Secretariat                 5(e)          4,108,060        3,472,091
                                                          20,555,901       18,676,741


Net foreign exchange (loss)                                 (393,474)        (335,477)


(Deficit)/Surplus of income over          	                (476,561)        1,342,832
expenditure




This statement and the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial
statements can be found on the PIFS website: www.forumsec.org




                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   35
-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

      Statement of Financial Position As at 31 December 2018
                                                   Note              2018             2017
                                                                      FJD              FJD
       Current assets
       Cash and cash equivalents                    6           26,316,269       32,941,572
       Held-to-maturity investments                 7            3,869,873        2,297,196
       Inventories                                  8               11,362           16,906
       Receivables – Members                        9              427,930            1,407
       Other receivables and prepayments            10             183,554          197,019
       Total current assets                                    30,808,988       35,454,100


       Non-current assets
       Property, plant and equipment                11           5,965,033        6,173,721
       Intangible assets                            12              17,013           51,127
       Total non-current assets                                 5,982,046        6,224,848


       Total assets                                            36,791,034       41,678,948


       Current liabilities
       Current payables and accruals                13           3,019,118        2,007,491
       Provisions                                   14             301,043          301,043
       Contributions received in advance – Trust    15          19,076,876       24,333,455
       Fund
       Total current liabilities                               22,397,037       26,641,989


       Total liabilities                                       22,397,037       26,641,989


       Net assets                                              14,393,997       15,036,959


       Accumulated and reserve funds
       General fund                                             10,877,043       10,960,130
       Exchange translation reserve                              (628,608)        (235,134)
       Capital reserve                                           4,145,562        4,311,963
       Total accumulated and reserve funds                     14,393,997       15,036,959




      Secretary General                                       Director Corporate Services
      Meg Taylor DBE                                          Simon Clegg

      This statement and the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial
      statements can be found on the PIFS website: www.forumsec.org


36   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN FUNDS
For the Year Ended 31 December 2018

                                                                2018             2017
                                                                 FJD              FJD


General Fund


Balance at the beginning of the year                      10,960,130         9,281,821
(Deficit)/Surplus of income over expenditure                (476,561)        1,342,832
Transfer to Exchange Translation Reserve                     393,474           335,477
Balance at the end of the year                            10,877,043       10,960,130



Exchange Translation Reserve


Balance at the beginning of the year                        (235,134)          100,343
Transfer (from) General Fund                                (393,474)        (335,477)
Balance at the end of the year                             (628,608)         (235,134)



Capital Reserve


Balance at the beginning of the year                       4,311,963         4,539,287
Purchase of Trust Fund assets                                 95,953            23,755
Depreciation on PPE used for Projects                      (262,354)         (251,079)
Balance at the end of the year                            4,145,562         4,311,963




This statement and the accompanying notes to and forming part of the financial
statements can be found on the PIFS website: www.forumsec.org




                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   37
-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

      Statement of Cash Flows, For the year ended 31 December
      2018

                                                      Note           2018             2017
                                                                      FJD              FJD
       Cash flow from operating activities
       Contributions from Members                               5,058,072          5,780,266

       Trust Fund income                                       27,113,432         25,522,176

       Programme and project costs                            (20,661,846)      (22,703,924)

       Other operational costs                                (16,499,884)      (15,434,609)

       Interest received                                          247,662           159,131

       Rent and other income                                      193,534           189,494

       Realised exchange loss                                     (20,044)              (92)


       Net cash flow (used in) operating activities           (4,569,074)        (6,487,558)


       Cash flow from investing activities
       Proceeds from sale of property, plant and                   74,329                    -
       equipment
       Payments for property, plant and                          (340,840)         (229,053)
       equipment
       Movement in held to maturity investments                (1,572,676)          (27,581)



       Net cash flow used in investing activities
                                                              (1,839,187)         (256,633)
       Effect on exchange rate changes                           (217,042)         (847,012)

       Net (decrease) in cash held                             (6,625,303)       (7,591,203)

       Cash and cash equivalents at the                        32,941,572         40,532,775
       beginning of the year
       Cash and cash equivalents at the end of          6     26,316,269         32,941,572
       the year




      This statement is to be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to and forming
      part of the financial statements posted on the PIFS website: www.forumsec.org




38   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

            Member Flags at the Secretariat, Suva, Fiji
                                               © PIFS




Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report    39
-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

                     2018 - Forum Leaders
                     Communiqué
                     FORTY-NINTH
                     PACIFIC ISLANDS
                     FORUM
                     Yaren, Nauru
                     3 – 6 September, 2018




37 40   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

                         PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM SECRETARIAT


                                                                                          PIFS(18)101

                        FORTY-NINTH PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM
                                      Yaren, Nauru
                                 3 – 6 September, 2018

                                   FORUM COMMUNIQUÉ

        The Forty-Ninth Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) was held in Yaren, Nauru from 3 – 6
September 2018 and was attended by Heads of State, Government, and Territories from the Cook
Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, French Polynesia, the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic
of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Samoa,
Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. Australia was represented by its Minister of Foreign
Affairs, the Republic of Fiji was represented by the Minister of Trade, Industry and Tourism, Palau
by its Minister of State, and Papua New Guinea by its Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The
Forum Leaders’ Retreat was held at the Nauru Learning Village, Yaren, Nauru.

2.      Tokelau attended the formal session as an Associate Member. Timor-Leste, Wallis and
Futuna, the Asian Development Bank, the Commonwealth Secretariat, the United Nations (UN),
the Western and Central Pacific Fisheries Commission (WCPFC), the International Organization
for Migration and the World Bank attended as Observers. The Council of Regional Organisations
in the Pacific (CROP): the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency (PIFFA); the Pacific Aviation
Safety Office (PASO); the Pacific Islands Development Program (PIDP); the Pacific Power
Association (PPA); the Secretariat of the Pacific Community (SPC); the South Pacific Tourism
Organisation (SPTO); the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment Programme (SPREP);
and the University of the South Pacific (USP) were represented by their respective Heads of
Organisations and senior officials. Forum Leaders also welcomed the opportunity to engage with
the broader Forum family, including Forum Dialogue Partners, civil society and the private sector.

3.     Forum Leaders expressed their appreciation to the President of Nauru, the Government
and the people of Nauru for the warm hospitality extended to all delegations. Leaders’
commended the preparations and facilitation of the 2018 Leaders’ and related meetings, which
enabled Leaders and all participants to hold constructive discussions, and contributed to the overall
success of the 49th Pacific Islands Forum.

BUILDING A STRONG PACIFIC – OUR PEOPLE, OUR ISLANDS, OUR WILL
4.     Leaders congratulated the Government of Nauru for the 49th PIF Leaders’ meeting theme,
Building a Strong Pacific: Our People, Our Islands, Our Will, recognising the opportunity that
the theme presents to strengthen the region’s collective will to drive the region’s ambition to
overcome the persistent development challenges faced by the Pacific people.

5.     In recognising the Blue Pacific narrative, endorsed by Leaders in their meeting in Samoa,
Leaders also welcomed the theme as an opportunity to build on the momentum of the Blue Pacific
– reminding and inspiring ‘us all’ to value the strategic potential of the region, and to act together
from a position of strength.


                                                 2

                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   41
-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

     6.      In taking into account the 1st Quadrennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report which
     tracks the region’s progress in realising the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the SIDS
     Accelerated Modalities of Action (S.A.M.O.A) Pathway and other global commitments, Leaders
     committed to ensuring that sustainable development in the region is achieved on its terms and in
     a way that recognises the region’s rich culture, national circumstances, and oceanic resources.

     7.      Leaders endorsed the first Quadrennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report in 2018
     as the Pacific region’s Sustainable Development Report on the 2030 Agenda, S.A.M.O.A Pathway
     and other global commitments, recognising that it will support Leaders’ participation at the 2019
     UN General Assembly Special Summit on the 2030 Agenda and the S.A.M.O.A Pathway Mid
     Term Review, including the remaining preparatory processes.

     8.      Leaders reaffirmed the prominence of regionally established mechanisms and called on
     all development partners, including multilateral agencies, to integrate, monitor and report on global
     sustainable development commitments through existing Forum mechanisms to ensure coherence
     in policy, implementation and accountability.

     9.     Leaders directed the Forum Secretariat to work with the Forum Troika (Samoa, Nauru and
     Tuvalu) to review the guidelines and format of PIF Meetings and report back to Leaders.

     REGIONALISM PRIORITIES

     10.    As the Blue Pacific, Leaders welcomed the opportunity for building a Strong Pacific for
     ‘our people and our islands’ by prioritising collective actions on the following priorities:

             Regional Security Declaration

     11.     Leaders acknowledged the dynamic geopolitical environment that has led to an
     increasingly crowded and contested region, and reaffirmed the need for strengthened collective
     and cohesive action to effectively manage the regional security environment in a proactive manner.

     12.     Leaders recalled their 2017 decision on a regional security declaration and welcomed the
     extensive security discussions held on an expanded concept of security inclusive of human
     security, humanitarian assistance, prioritising environmental security and regional cooperation in
     building resilience to disasters and climate change. Leaders acknowledged the development of a
     Regional Security Declaration which builds on and complements the Biketawa Declaration, and
     responds to the region’s complex and evolving regional security environment.

     13.    Leaders endorsed the Regional Security Declaration to be known as the Boe Declaration
     as provided in Annex 1 and noted that an action plan for implementation, supporting the proposed
     regional security declaration, will be developed by November 2018.

     14.   Leaders directed the Forum Troika to review progress of implementation of the Boe
     Declaration in mid-2019.




                                                        3

42   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

       Climate Change and Disaster Resilience

15.     Recognising that climate change presents the single greatest threat to the livelihood,
security and wellbeing of Pacific people, Leaders reaffirmed the importance of immediate urgent
action to combat climate change and committed to sustained, high level representation and
collaboration in the lead up to, and at, the 24th Conference of Parties to the UN Framework on
Climate Change Convention (COP 24) – to ensure effective progress on Pacific priorities with
regards to the Paris Agreement, particularly the development of the Rule Book and Guidelines for
implementing the Paris Agreement, building on the Talanoa Dialogue.

16.     Leaders acknowledged the leadership of Fiji’s COP 23 presidency and called on the
CROP Plus group to provide strong, coordinated support and assistance to Members’ delegations
in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) negotiations.

17.    Leaders called on countries, particularly large emitters, to fully implement their Nationally
Determined Contribution mitigation targets, including through the development and transfer of
renewable energy, in line with committed timeframes. Leaders of Forum Island Countries called
on the United States to return to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change.

18.    Leaders urged the expeditious progress of the work of the taskforce for the Pacific Islands
Climate Change Insurance Facility.

19.    Leaders requested the UN Secretary-General to appoint a Special Adviser on climate
change and security. Furthermore, Leaders called on the UN Security Council to appoint a special
rapporteur to produce a regular review of global, regional and national security threats caused by
climate change.

20.     Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the Framework for Resilient Development in the
Pacific, recognising the value and importance of a multi-sectoral approach to addressing climate
change and its impacts. Leaders acknowledged the establishment of a regional risk governance
arrangement through the Pacific Resilience Partnership and the Pacific Resilience Partnership
Taskforce.

21.    Leaders endorsed the development of the concept of the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF)
and directed the Forum Secretariat to progress the development of the PRF.

       Fisheries

22.     Leaders reiterated their commitment to ensuring the long-term sustainability and viability
of the region’s fisheries resources, recognising its centrality to the well-being of communities and
economies.

23.     In noting the outcomes of the 2018 Forum Fisheries Ministers’ meeting and recalling their
2017 decision that fisheries constitute a standing agenda item for the Forum, Leaders endorsed
the proposal for an annual Regional Fisheries Ministers’ meeting, in the margins of the Forum
Fisheries Committee Ministerial Meeting, to report to Leaders on all fisheries related matters,


                                                4

                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   43
-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

     including scientific and economic assessments of the adverse impacts of climate change and
     illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing.

     24.     Leaders welcomed Fisheries Ministers’ commitment to address the underperformance of
     the regional longline fishery and requested that Ministers report back to Leaders in 2019. Leaders
     called upon Distance Water Fishing Nations (DWFN) to remove harmful fisheries subsidies for
     longline fishing that lead to overcapacity and overfishing, taking note of the difficulties faced by
     some countries.

     25.    Leaders committed to supporting the advancement of the priorities identified by Fisheries
     Ministers for negotiations in the WCPFC through strengthened Forum engagement and advocacy
     with DWFN.

             Oceans

     26.     Leaders acknowledged the urgency and importance of securing the region’s maritime
     boundaries as a key issue for the development and security of the region, and thereby for the
     security and well-being of the Blue Pacific continent. Leaders commended the SPC, the PIFFA,
     the Forum Secretariat and other relevant agencies for the legal and technical support and
     assistance on maritime boundaries delimitation.

     27.    Leaders committed to progressing the resolution of outstanding maritime boundary claims
     and report back on progress at the Forum Leaders’ meeting in 2019.

     28.     Leaders agreed to mobilise all relevant Forum mechanisms to advance the region’s
     positions in the negotiations for a new Implementing Agreement on the Conservation and
     Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction.

     29.   Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to eliminate marine litter and the urgency of
     implementing the Pacific Marine Litter Action Plan recently endorsed by the Pacific Region Waste
     Roundtable.

             Childhood Obesity, Early Childhood Development and Non-Communicable Diseases

     30.     Leaders expressed their grave concern with the increasing incidence of Non-
     Communicable Diseases (NCDs), noting that NCDs now represent the leading cause of premature
     deaths in the region. Leaders also expressed alarm at the increasing incidence of childhood obesity
     and stunting, particularly its impact on future generations of Pacific people – an issue that was
     highlighted for Leaders’ attention by the Specialist Sub-Committee on Regionalism.

     31.     Leaders committed to leading a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach at
     the national level to address NCDs, childhood obesity and early childhood development.

     32.    Leaders committed to availing sufficient resources to address NCDs and childhood
     obesity, to ensure the effective implementation of the recommendations of the 2014 NCDs
     Roadmap and the 2016 NCDs Summit.


                                                        5

44   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

       West Papua (Papua)
33.     Leaders recognised the constructive engagement by Forum countries with Indonesia with
respect to elections and human rights in West Papua (Papua) and to continue dialogue in an open
and constructive manner.

AERIAL SURVEILLANCE
34.    Leaders supported the Aerial Surveillance programme to be implemented by MOUs
entered into by each government, and constituent parts, with PIFFA.

35.     Leaders committed to ensuring processes (including national level coordination) are made
as efficient as possible to ensure the program is implemented efficiently.

36.     Leaders acknowledged the support of the Government of Australia to strengthen the
surveillance capabilities of participating Members.

STRENGTHENING ARRANGEMENTS FOR REGIONALISM
37.    Leaders reaffirmed the importance of whole-of-government engagement to drive its
regional priorities, recognising their individual responsibility for maintaining the momentum for
implementation of the regional policy agenda.

       Charter of the Council of Regional Organisations in the Pacific

38.     In this respect, Leaders endorsed the revised Charter of the Council of Regional
Organisations in the Pacific (CROP) Charter, to ensure full alignment with the Framework for
Pacific Regionalism and strengthen CROP cooperation, coordination and collaboration, under the
oversight of the CROP Chair.

39.   Leaders directed CROP agencies to strengthen collaboration and effectively implement
commitments reflected under the revised CROP Charter.

40.     Leaders conveyed their appreciation to Mr James Movick, Director General of the PIFFA,
and Professor Rajesh Chandra, Vice Chancellor of the USP, for their commitment and service to
the region. Leaders welcomed the appointment of Dr Manumatavai Tupou-Roosen as Director
General of the PIFFA.
       Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat Sustainable Funding Resolution
41.     In recognising the importance of increasing Members’ equitable ownership of the
Secretariat, Leaders endorsed the ongoing Secretariat reforms to ensure adequate and predictable
funding of the Secretariat to safeguard its role as an independent body providing high quality
policy advice to advance regionalism and approved the Sustainable Funding Resolution (Annex
2), with qualification.




                                               6

                                              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   45
-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

              Associate Membership

      42.     In considering the Forum’s capacity to represent the Pacific Islands region, consistent with
      the vision and objectives of the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, Leaders endorsed the
      admission of Wallis and Futuna as an Associate Member to the Pacific Islands Forum.

              28th Smaller Island States Leaders Meeting

      43.     With qualification, Leaders endorsed the Summary of Decisions of the 28th Smaller Island
      States Leaders Meeting.

      DATE AND VENUE OF NEXT MEETING

      44.    Leaders welcomed and confirmed the future hosts of the Forum as follows: Tuvalu in
      2019 and Vanuatu in 2020.

      COUNTRY INITIATIVES

              Pacific Fusion Centre
      45.     Leaders welcomed Australia’s decision to work with regional security agencies to establish
      a Pacific Fusion Centre that will build on current regional frameworks to strengthen information
      sharing and maritime domain awareness to better inform security responses to some of the main
      threats outlined in the Boe Declaration, such as illegal fishing, drugs trafficking and other
      transnational crimes. Leaders urged the importance of working together to develop a fit-for-
      purpose Pacific regional fusion facility and to conduct a feasibility study in the last quarter of 2018.

              Nuclear legacy and Other Issues in the Pacific

      46.    Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to addressing the outstanding security threats from
      nuclear legacy issues, including radioactive contaminants, World War II relics and unexploded
      ordnance in the Blue Pacific and called on all responsible parties to rectify the ongoing impacts
      of contaminants in the Ocean to sustain future generations.

      47.     Leaders directed the Forum Secretariat, in coordination with CROP agencies, to further
      advance national and regional efforts towards a just and final resolution, including through Forum
      international engagement and advocacy.
              2018 Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Meeting
      48.    Leaders welcomed Papua New Guinea’s invitation as Chair of the 2018 Asia Pacific
      Economic Cooperation (APEC) to participate in an informal dialogue between Leaders of Forum
      Island Countries and Territories and APEC Leaders in the margin of the APEC Summit.

              UN Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons




                                                         7

46   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

49.     Leaders noted the signature and ratification by the Cook Islands of the UN Treaty on the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons on 5th September 2018, joining Palau as the first and New Zealand
as the second Forum Members to sign and ratify the Treaty, and encouraged individual Member
countries to progress efforts, as they deem appropriate.

       Culture

50.    Leaders noted the importance of and supported the mainstreaming of culture across the
regional development agenda to protect, preserve and promote traditional knowledge and skills.
Leaders noted the outcomes of the 4th Culture Ministers Meeting and welcomed the commitment
of Ministers responsible for Culture and supported the integration of regional strategies, including
those on gender, employment, education, trade, tourism and environment.

        Anti-Corruption Regional Meeting

51.    Leaders noted the intention of the Republic of Kiribati to host a regional meeting on anti-
corruption in 2019.
        2020 Our Oceans Conference
52.    Leaders welcomed Palau’s intention to host the 2020 Our Oceans Conference and agreed
to support Palau by advocating for financial and technical assistance from Development Partners.
        2018 Climate Vulnerable Forum Virtual Summit
53.     Leaders supported the 2018 Climate Vulnerable Forum Virtual Summit of Heads of
Government hosted by the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the first to use an innovative entirely
online format, on 22 November 2018, as a UNFCCC Talanoa Dialogue event towards increased
ambition in climate action by 2020. Leaders called on world leaders to participate in solidarity
with the most vulnerable nations.

       Waste

54.    Leaders recognised that waste is a critical issue for the Blue Pacific.

       Pacific Islands Sports Ministers Agreement

55.     Leaders noted the agreement of the 2018 Pacific Islands Sports Ministers Meeting to
establish a Pacific Islands Sports Ministers’ Secretariat, including the proposal for a new
operational and funding model for the Pacific Games. Leaders also noted their decision to review
the Games Charter and the Host Agreement with the Pacific Games Council.

       Country Classification

56.     Leaders noted Solomon Islands’ imminent graduation from Least Developed Country
status and its subsequent request to defer the graduation date to allow time for comprehensive due
diligence and the development of its graduation road map to ensure a smooth transition. Leaders
further noted Solomon Islands’ request for support of its proposal at the relevant fora.

                                                8

                                                Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   47
-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

              Referendum on self-determination

      57.   Leaders acknowledged the progress towards the referendum on self-determination in New
      Caledonia on 4 November, 2018 and welcomed the invitation by France for a Forum Ministerial
      Committee Mission to the referendum under the auspices of the UN.




      Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat
      Yaren, Nauru

      5 September 2018




                                                        9

48   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

                                                                                            Annex 1
                                     BOE DECLARATION
Forum Leaders:
Recognising and reaffirming our endorsement of the Biketawa Declaration in the year 2000 and
recalling the principles underpinning the Biketawa Declaration such as commitment to good
governance, belief in the liberty of the individual under the law, upholding democratic processes
and institutions and recognising the vulnerability of Member countries to threats to their security;
Recalling our vision and values for the Pacific under the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, as
a region of ‘peace, harmony, security, social inclusion and prosperity so that all Pacific people can
lead free, healthy and productive lives’;
Recognising our endorsement of the ‘Blue Pacific’ identity to drive collective action in support of
our vision under the Framework for Pacific Regionalism;
Recalling our agreement at the 48th Forum Leaders’ Meeting in Apia, Samoa, to build on the
Biketawa Declaration and other Forum related security declarations and agreements as the
foundation for strategic future regional responses;
Recognising the importance we placed on an expanded concept of security inclusive of human
security, humanitarian assistance, prioritising environmental security, and regional cooperation in
building resilience to disasters and climate change, including through regional cooperation and
support;
Respecting the principle of non-interference in the domestic affairs of Forum Members; and
Recognising the need to strengthen regional security cooperation and collective action through the
assertion of Our Will and the voices of Our Pacific Peoples.


HEREBY DECLARE AS FOLLOWS:
(i)     We reaffirm that climate change remains the single greatest threat to the livelihoods,
        security and wellbeing of the peoples of the Pacific and our commitment to progress the
        implementation of the Paris Agreement;

(ii)    We recognise an increasingly complex regional security environment driven by
        multifaceted security challenges, and a dynamic geopolitical environment leading to an
        increasingly crowded and complex region;

(iii)   We affirm our stewardship of the Blue Pacific and aspire to strengthen and enhance our
        capacity to pursue our collective security interests given our responsibility to sustain our
        Pacific peoples and our resources;



                                                 10

                                                 Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   49
-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

     (iv)     We respect and assert the sovereign right of every Member to conduct its national affairs
              free of external interference and coercion;

     (v)      We reaffirm the right of Members to individually and collectively address security issues
              and concerns;

     (vi)     We reaffirm the importance of the rules-based international order founded on the UN
              Charter, adherence to relevant international law and resolution of international disputes by
              peaceful means;

     (vii)    We affirm an expanded concept of security which addresses the wide range of security
              issues in the region, both traditional and non-traditional, with an increasing emphasis on:

                 a. Human Security, including humanitarian assistance, to protect the rights, health and
                    prosperity of Pacific people;
                 b. Environmental and resource security;
                 c. Transnational crime; and
                 d. Cybersecurity, to maximise protections and opportunities for Pacific infrastructure
                    and peoples in the digital age;

     (viii)   We recognise that national security impacts on regional security, and therefore commit to
              strengthening our respective national security approaches by:

                 a. developing our national security strategies; and
                 b. strengthening national security capacity including through training;

     (ix)     We commit to strengthening the existing regional security architecture inclusive of regional
              law enforcement secretariats and regional organisations to:

                 a.   account for the expanded concept of security;
                 b.   identify and address emerging security challenges;
                 c.   improve coordination among existing security mechanisms;
                 d.   facilitate open dialogue and strengthened information sharing;
                 e.   further develop early warning mechanisms;
                 f.   support implementation;
                 g.   promote regional security analysis, assessment and advice; and
                 h.   engage and cooperate, where appropriate, with international organisations,
                      partners and other relevant stakeholders;

     (x)      We commit to continuing regular Leaders’ level discussions on the expanded concept of
              security as part of securing our Blue Pacific.




                                                        11

50   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

                                                                                                Annex 2

           Resolution on Sustainable Funding of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat

The Leaders of the Member Governments of the Pacific Islands Forum:

Recalling Forum Leaders admitted French Polynesia and New Caledonia as full Members of the Forum
on 10 September 2016 at the 47th Pacific Islands Forum in Pohnpei, and accorded the Federated States
of Micronesia with the status of a Smaller Island State, which necessitates a readjustment of the shares
set out in the Annex to the Agreement Establishing the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat done at
Tarawa, Kiribati on 30 October 2000 (the Agreement);

Acknowledging that the shares contained in the Annex have not been reviewed since they were set in
1996, that membership contributions have remained relatively static since that time and no longer
adequately fund the operating costs for the core functions of the Secretariat;

Aware that the Secretariat’s funding needs to be sustainable, to ensure it can efficiently and effectively
carry out its primary policy advisory function; and

Desiring to promote greater ownership by all Members, and equity amongst all Members, of the Pacific
Islands Forum and its Secretariat, and ensure the work programme and regional agenda is determined
by Members:

(i)     determine new shares for Member governments to meet the costs of the Secretariat under
        Article X.2 of the Agreement as set out in Annex A to this resolution, to replace those currently
        set out in the Annex to the Agreement effective from 1 January 2019;

(ii)    agree to increase the proportion of assessed Member contributions to be 51% of the Primary
        Budget (the costs of operating the Secretariat to discharge its core functions) through
        progressive pre-determined, incremental adjustments over a period of 9 years, starting in 2019;

(iii)   institute a triennial review of the level of assessed membership contributions and voluntary
        contributions, with the first review in 2021 to incorporate an assessment of options for an
        adjustment factor, to address the vulnerability and financial challenges of Members;

(iv)    strongly encourage countries that provide Voluntary Contributions to do so on a three-yearly
        basis that is aligned to the triennial review period;

(v)     approve the parameters set out in Annex B for the use by the Secretariat of extra budget funding
        from donors;

(vi)    agree that administration fees from extra budget funding from donors must not be used to fund
        the Secretariat’s regional policy advisory functions; and

(vii)   agree that any shortfall from extra budget funding from donors of the cost of Service Delivery
        functions must be funded by user fees or special Member assessments, from 1 January 2019.




                                                   12

                                                   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report    51
-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

                                                                                            Annex A
     Revised Scale of contributions to the Budget

     (used to determine the Assessed Contributions from Members)

        Member                               %                % contribution   % contribution 2021
                                             contribution     2020             and subsequent years
                                             2019             (transitional)
                                             (transitional)
        Australia                            31.95            28.17            24.50
        Cook Islands                         1.11             1.34             1.50
        Federated States of Micronesia       1.11             1.34             1.50
        Fiji                                 3.08             3.73             4.41
        French Polynesia                     3.15             3.81             4.45
        Kiribati                             1.11             1.34             1.50
        Nauru                                1.11             1.34             1.50
        New Caledonia                        3.94             4.77             5.60
        New Zealand                          31.95            28.17            24.50
        Niue                                 1.11             1.34             1.50
        Palau                                1.11             1.34             1.50
        Papua New Guinea                     7.54             9.13             11.10
        Republic of the Marshall Islands     1.11             1.34             1.50
        Samoa                                2.34             2.83             3.32
        Solomon Islands                      2.27             2.75             3.20
        Tonga                                2.20             2.67             3.12
        Tuvalu                               1.11             1.34             1.50
        Vanuatu                              2.33             2.83             3.30
        Associate Member
        Tokelau                              0.37             0.42             0.50
        Total                                100.00           100.00           100.00




                                                        13

52   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

                                                                                        Annex B

Parameters for use of Extra Budget funding by the Secretariat


      Use 1: Support of Regional Policy Development

             a. To supplement policy formulation where specific activity costs can be
                identified.
             b. To provide dedicated funds to support the implementation of a Leaders’
                Regional Policy initiative.

      Use 2: Advisory Support (as part of capacity building)

             Where funds are needed to support the capacity of individual Members to meet the
             objectives of a regional policy decision.

      Use 3: Service Delivery

             Where other services or benefits are being provided to a wide range of identifiable
             users, and economic funding principles indicate that the cost of providing these
             should otherwise be funded through direct charges on users or beneficiaries.




                                             14

                                             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   53
-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

                  2018 Forum
                  Economic Ministers
                  Meeting
                  Koror, Palau
                  26-27 April, 2018




54   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

                     PACIFIC ISLANDS FORUM SECRETARIAT



             2018 FORUM ECONOMIC MINISTERS MEETING

                            Tommy E. Remengesau, Jr. Building
                    Palau International Coral Reef Centre, Koror, Palau
                                     26-27 April, 2018

                                  FEMM ACTION PLAN

        The 21st meeting of the Forum Economic Ministers was held at the Palau International
Coral Reef Centre, Koror, Palau. The Forum Economic Ministers Meeting (FEMM) was
chaired by the Minister for Finance of Palau, the Honourable Elbuchel Sadang, and supported
by the Secretary General of the Pacific Islands Forum, Dame Meg Taylor.

2.      The following Forum Member Countries were represented: Australia, Cook Islands, the
Federated States of Micronesia, French Polynesia, Kiribati, Republic of the Marshall Islands,
Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands,
Tonga, Tuvalu and Vanuatu. Representatives from the Council of Regional Organisations in
the Pacific included: The Pacific Power Association, the Pacific Community and the University
of the South Pacific. FEMM Observer representatives included: the Asian Development Bank,
Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (on special invitation), the Delegation of the European
Union to the Pacific (including the European Investment Bank), the International Monetary
Fund Resident Representative Office, Pacific Association of Supreme Audit Institutions, the
Pacific Financial Technical Assistance Centre, the Pacific Islands Private Sector Organisation,
the Pacific Provident Funds and Social Security Forum (on special invitation), the United
Nations Resident Coordinator for the Pacific (including the Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific and the United Nations Development Programme), the University of
the South Pacific and the World Bank Group. Private Sector representatives and Civil Society
Organisations also held a dialogue with Forum Economic Ministers on Friday, 27 April 2018.

3.    The theme of the 21st FEMM was “Building Economic Resilience of the Pacific Island
Countries through Sustainable Financing Flows”.



SETTING THE SCENE: REGIONAL ECONOMIC AND SDGS & STATISTICS
UPDATE
4.      The World Bank Group provided an update on the global economy and regional
economic update, with respect to the challenges and opportunities for Forum Island Countries
(FICs), identified in their Pacific Possible Report. Ministers considered an update on regional
efforts to prepare the first quadrennial Pacific Sustainable Development Report in 2018, and


                                              1

                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   55
-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

     the state of statistics and related issues in the region. Ministers also considered a summary of
     the readiness of the region to provide up-to-date and accurate statistics to meet national,
     regional and international planning and reporting requirements including for the 2030 Agenda
     for Sustainable Development, SIDS Accelerated Modalities of Action Pathway (SAMOA
     Pathway) and the Framework for Pacific Regionalism (FPR). Discussions also considered the
     resources required in the region for building statistical capacity and reporting for evidence-
     based economic policy and analyses, as well as the need for better collaboration by key
     stakeholders in the region.

     5.       Ministers:

     Update on the Pacific Roadmap for Sustainable Development & State of Statistics in the
     Region
     (1)    Agreed to take leadership of the national implementation of the Pacific Roadmap for
            Sustainable Development as approved by Forum Leaders in September 2017 by:
            (i)    ensuring country validation and completion of the Country Data sheets for the
                   132 Pacific Sustainable Development Indicators to inform the 2018 Pacific
                   Sustainable Development Report to be considered by the Forum Officials
                   Committee Meeting in August 2018 and Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting
                   in September 2018;
            (ii)   supporting engagement of Ministries of Finance and Planning in south-south
                   cooperation and peer-to-peer learning for Voluntary National Reporting on the
                   SDGs and prioritise where appropriate the use of national and regional Pacific
                   expertise in development efforts prior to considering international expertise;
                   and
            (iii)  ensuring ‘no one is left behind’ by considering more targeted resource allocation
                   including appropriate social protection measures to reduce inequality,
                   especially for vulnerable groups such as including women, youth, elderly and
                   persons living with disabilities, and those in rural and remote areas and islands.

      (2)     Considered and endorsed the priorities for implementing the Pacific Roadmap for
              Sustainable Development;

      (3)     Agreed to receive and consider future reporting by the Pacific Steering Committee for
              Sustainable Development on challenges and actions required for the implementation of
              the Pacific Roadmap for Sustainable Development;

      (4)     Noted and endorsed the progress made in statistical developments since the
              commencement of the Ten Year Pacific Statistics Strategy (TYPSS) and the increasing
              demand for statistics in the region, especially for reporting on the SDGs and national
              priorities;

      (5)     Supported the call for additional and sufficient funding commitments by governments
              and development partners:

                                                       2

56   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

       (i)     to strengthen national statistical systems across all of the public sector to
               improve quality of data and analysis (disaggregated by sex, location and
               disability) for informed national and regional policy making, monitoring and
               accountability including for the 2030 Agenda, SDGs, SAMOA Pathway, the
               Framework for Pacific Regionalism (FPR) and the Pacific Leaders' Gender
               Equality Declaration (PLGED); and
       (ii)    for the conduct of the core statistical collections presented to Economic
               Ministers and ensure greater coordination between development partners and
               governments in scheduling core statistical collections to minimise disruptions
               by unplanned surveys.

(6)    Agreed that governance and financing of regional statistics will be a standing agenda
       item at Forum Economic Officials Meeting and will be tabled at the Forum Economic
       Ministers Meeting, if decisions are required.

FINANCING ECONOMIC RESILIENCE IN THE PACIFIC
6.      The core paper for the 2018 FEMM - the proposal for a Pacific Resilience Facility, was
discussed thoroughly by the Economic Ministers. After consideration of a regional finance
facility at the 2017 FEMM, the FEMM Troika, comprising Cook Islands, Samoa, Palau
discussed the need for a Pacific Resilience Facility. Economic Ministers agreed on the
establishment of a Technical Working Group comprised of Cook Islands, Palau, Samoa, Fiji,
New Zealand and supported by the Forum Secretariat provided oversight to the development
and technical feasibility of the proposal. The Forum Secretariat carried out extensive
consultations across the PIF membership, supported by the Technical Working Group, to
inform and guide the development of the proposal tabled at the 2018 FEMM.

7.       The Pacific Resilience Facility proposal was guided by the principles of: (1) Building
regional ownership; (2) Affordable and contextualised financing; (3) Additionality and
complementarity of funds to build resilience; and (4) Investment in preparedness to minimise
loss of lives and significant economic losses. In addition, the strategic objectives of the PRF
are to:
   (i) Strengthen the collective financial resilience of FICs;
   (ii) Provide cost-efficient and contextualised financing options for resilient development;
   (iii) Strengthen strategic and genuine partnership with key development partners; and
   (iv) Encourage capacity development in national disaster risk budgeting and financing.

8.      Ministers acknowledged the extensive work carried out since the 2017 FEMM in
refining the Pacific Resilience Facility, including additional technical details, financial
analyses and consultation with PIF Members and key development partners. While endorsing
the Pacific Resilience Facility and proposed next steps, Ministers agreed to progress to the
technical design phase, to refine and address relevant operational aspects of the Pacific
Resilience Facility.


                                              3

                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   57
-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

     9.      As directed by 2017 Forum Leaders, Economic Ministers also considered a concept
     note on the development of a Pacific Islands Climate Change Insurance Facility (PICCIF). The
     concept note outlined the recent work undertaken to develop a mechanism to manage financial
     vulnerability and risks to the impacts of climate change and improve resilience in the region.
     The Ministers considered the progress made to-date on the PICCIF and agreed that significant
     further work is required by the recently established Taskforce, led by Tuvalu. Ministers
     emphasised that the roadmap should be a living document to incorporate their feedback and
     ongoing discussions.

     10.     To improve accessibility and management of climate change and disaster risk finance,
     Ministers considered a paper on the region’s opportunities for strengthening private sector
     investment in low-carbon, climate resilient development. Discussions included: the scale of
     financing required by FICs; the status of the region’s accessibility to international climate
     change and disaster funds; ensuring the effectiveness of funds being accessed by FICs; the
     status of private sector engagement and key barriers to private sector engagement; and, options
     for strengthening private sector engagement.

     11.     The Pacific Investment Forum [composed of Sovereign Wealth Funds, Social Security
     and Pension Funds, and Provident Funds] presented their proposal for co-investment
     opportunities in infrastructure in Forum Island Countries. Ministers appreciated the interest
     from the Pacific Investment Forum for co-investment in the region, and recognised that support
     of Forum Economic Ministers was essential in further advancing and exploring the
     opportunities for collaboration and co-investment in the region between governments and
     members of the Pacific Investment Forum, through the establishment of a Working Group.
     Australia encouraged Economic Ministers and the Pacific Investment Forum to closely
     coordinate and dialogue with the Global Infrastructure Hub, noting that the Global
     Infrastructure Hub has done significant amount of work in this area since its establishment.

     12.     Ministers:

     The Pacific Resilience Facility
      (1)  Commended the FEMM Troika and Technical Working Group, Forum Island
           Countries (FICs) that supported the in-country consultations, and Pacific Islands Forum
           Secretariat (PIFS) for their effort in developing the proposal for a Pacific Resilience
           Facility;

      (2)    Endorsed the proposal for a Pacific Resilience Facility and commended it for Forum
             Leaders consideration at the 2018 Forum Leaders meeting in Nauru, noting that the
             technical work to establish the Facility will be needed;

      (3)    Formalised the Technical Working Group on the Pacific Resilience Facility to
             comprise the existing members (Cook Islands, Samoa, Palau, Fiji and New Zealand)
             and agreed that the Technical Working Group work under the close guidance of the
             FEMM Troika;

                                                      4

58   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

 (4)   Supported the next phase of technical analyses and assessments for establishing and
       operationalising the Pacific Resilience Facility with close oversight and guidance from
       the FEMM Troika and Technical Working Group, and provide relevant, regular
       feedback to the FICs; and

 (5)   Tasked the Technical Working Group, with support from PIFS to develop a funding
       strategy for the capitalisation of the Pacific Resilience Facility.

Pacific Islands Climate Change Insurance Facility (PICCIF) Proposal
 (6)   Noted the establishment of the PICCIF Taskforce;

 (7)   Acknowledged and agreed to the proposed Roadmap to progress the PICCIF
       Taskforce’s work plan in 2018-2019 and requested that the Taskforce update the
       Roadmap to reflect the feedback provided by Ministers at the FEMM; and

 (8)   Recognised the substantial amount of analytical work needed to develop the PICCIF
       concept further, before Ministerial consideration can be facilitated in 2019.

Climate Change and Disaster Risk Finance
(9)   Welcomed the recent GCF Board’s adoption of the Simplified Approval Procedure,
      and urged the GCF to fast-track the disbursement of approved funds to FICs and
      promote a programmatic approach;

(10)   Invited donors to provide resources to support the consolidation of public financial
       management systems matrix for the remaining FICs, and requested the Secretariat to
       report on this as well as the national climate finance tracking tool in the next FEMM;

(11)   Requested partners to support additional private sector workshops in Micronesia and
       Polynesia, and tasked the PIFS to develop an options paper for private sector access to
       climate finance, including a donor database, for consideration in the next FEMM; and

(12)   Agreed to provide a status report in the next FEMM on how respective governments
       are addressing the specific barriers to private sector engagement.

 Co-Investment: Attracting Investment in Long-Term Infrastructure Investment in the
 Pacific
(13)     Supported the establishment of a Working Group to develop a Pacific Infrastructure
         Investment Framework and to report back to the next FEMM. The Working Group to
         consist of representatives from the Pacific Investment Forum, PIFS and relevant
         technical agencies, as required; and




                                             5

                                              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   59
-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

     (14)     Encouraged PIFS to monitor and leverage off the leading edge work of the G20 (and
              other forums), and in particular of the Infrastructure Working Group, so as to inform
              future consideration of infrastructure issues by Economic Ministers at the FEMM.

      FEMM STANDING AGENDA ITEMS & OTHER FEMM ISSUES
      13.     Economic Ministers noted and supported the rationalisation of the FEMM Standing
      Agenda Items for an out-of-session update on these issues. They considered FEMM Observer
      applications by the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and Global Green Growth
      Institute (GGGI), and the release of FEMM substantive issues papers. Ministers warmly
      welcomed Vanuatu’s offer to host the 2021 FEMM.

      14.     Ministers:

      Options to Rationalise the FEMM Standing Agenda Items
      (1)   Considered and endorsed FEMM Standing Agenda items to be included in the FEMM
            Agenda on demand, as a means to rationalise the FEMM standing agenda items. The
            FEMM standing agenda items will be shared under PIFS Circular to Member countries
            out-of-session.

      Update on Remittances
      (2)   Noted the importance of remittance flows in the Pacific and reaffirm the importance
            of the Pacific attaining the United Nations’ SDG target of 3% average remittance costs;

       (3)    Noted that remittance costs remain under pressure in the Pacific, and that de-risking
              continues to be a driver of remittance market challenges in the region;

       (4)    Welcomed the report from the Financial Stability Board to G20 ministers on practical
              actions to address de-risking;

       (5)    Reiterated their commitment to maintaining domestic and regional momentum on this
              issue in order to drive remittance costs lower; and

       (6)    Encouraged New Zealand, Australia and other development partners to continue
              seeking domestic, regional and international solutions.

      Application by AIIB and GGGI: FEMM Special Technical Observer
      (7)    Endorsed AIIB’s application to be a Special Technical Observer at FEMM; and

       (8)    Endorsed GGGI’s application to be a Special Technical Observer at FEMM,
              conditional upon its full recognition of all PIF members.

      Confirmation of Host of Next FEMM and Release of FEMM Papers
      (9)   Noted that the 2019 and 2020 FEMM will be held at PIFS in Suva, in accordance with
            the FEMM Charter and confirmed the offer by Vanuatu to host FEMM in 2021; and

                                                       6

60   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

(10)   Supported the release of the substantive FEMM issues papers.

 Out of Session Papers
(11)    Noted the out-of-session papers.



OTHER MATTERS
15.    Palau emphasised the importance of contextualised multilateral and development
partners to take into account the unique characteristics of the Forum Island Countries (FICs),
including the vulnerabilities of our small island economies in particular to the mounting
impacts of climate change and disasters. The criteria used for country classification, and the
associated access to official development assistance through multilateral and global sources,
must be re-examined particularly for FICs. To that end, Palau sought timely support through
the FEMM, for the establishment of a working group that would be tasked to develop a strategy
aimed to address these issues.

16.    Ministers:

 (1)   Agreed to the establishment of a working group, comprising select representatives, to
       develop the strategy on improving access to financing for Forum island countries;

 (2)   Agreed that a substantive report be tabled for the consideration of Ministers at the 2019
       Forum Economic Ministers Meeting; and

 (3)   Agreed that exploratory discussions, including with regional donors, on this proposal
       be progressed by the Secretariat to inform its work on this issue



DEVELOPMENT PARTNERS ROUNDTABLE WITH FORUM ECONOMIC
MINISTERS
17.    The inaugural Development Partners Roundtable with Forum Economic Ministers
was held on 27 April, 2018 in Koror, Palau.

18.      Ministers acknowledged that the purpose of the dialogue with development partners is
to realise alignment of their resources to implement the Forum agenda, as called for by Leaders
in 2017. Further, to support opportunities to strengthen engagement with development partners
to deliver regional impact for the Pacific, including building resilience to climate change and
disasters at national and regional levels.

19.    In the spirit of the Framework for Pacific Regionalism, Ministers encouraged
development partners to embrace a renewed way of working together with PIF members to
hold more robust and meaningful dialogue on the key priorities of the Blue Pacific and what
can be done collectively to take forward Leaders priorities.

                                              7

                                              Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   61
-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

     20.     The Economic Ministers highlighted a number of key integrated national and regional
     issues:
      (1)    reiterated the increasing need for additional financing to build resilience to climate
             change and disaster risk management, while ensuring continued support for social
             programmes. Noting that there is significant financing gap for FICs;

      (2)     maximising government revenues (such as from upper air space management and
              fisheries) through ongoing capacity building support from development partners, as
              part of FICs’ domestic resource mobilisation to finance their development initiatives;

      (3)     blending domestic and international public finance, and the need for better alignment,
              coordination and integration among development partners on their reporting
              requirements when co-financing projects in FICs, to increase efficiencies, reduce the
              turnaround time on project approvals and delays in disbursements; and

      (4)     improving access to pre-project financing approved by the Multilateral Development
              Banks (MDBs) and encouraged the use of the existing national Central Banks systems
              as the focal point for release of project finance from MDBs.

     21.      Development Partners:

      (1)     Noted the efforts to align their work programmes in the Pacific region with national
              development strategies/plans and regional priorities as highlighted under the
              Framework for Pacific Regionalism;

      (2)     Recognised the need for investment in capacity building and reaffirmed the availability
              of technical assistance to member states, particularly in the areas of domestic resource
              mobilisation;

      (3)     Acknowledged the strength of regional solidarity in progressing the regional priorities
              and commended the strong political will shown for the Pacific Resilience Facility that
              was observed at the 2018 Forum Economic Ministers Meeting. Further urged the FICs
              to actively engage in the Post-Cotonou Negotiations;

      (4)     Acknowledged the opportunity to meet with Forum Economic Ministers as a collective
              and noted the opportunity for the region at the ADB Annual Meeting to be hosted by
              Fiji in 2019, to put forward a regional position on key Development partners
              engagement in the region, including the possibility of reviewing the base allocations of
              MDBs for concessional financing for all FICs; and

      (5)     Noted the role of private sector in supporting regional economies and reaffirmed their
              support for private sector development in the region, including support towards
              building capacity for a pipeline of economically investable programmes in the region.

                                                       8

62   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

  FEMM MINISTERIAL RETREAT

  PIPSO

  22.        Ministers:

      (1)    Reaffirmed the value of a regional private sector organisation, such as PIPSO, in the
             Pacific region noting the importance of the private sector as a vehicle for economic
             development and recognising the ongoing need to build the capacity of private sector
             in the region; and

      (2)    Directed the Forum Secretariat to develop a term of reference for the out-of-session
             consideration and approval of Ministers, for a comprehensive review of the governance
             of PIPSO and its strategic focus, going forward.

  Accessing Development Finance

23.         Ministers discussed country classification by income levels and its implication on
            Members’ access to development financing. Ministers discussed the value for a
            coordinated advocacy approach on the recognition of vulnerability and fragility as a
            criteria to access development financing.

24.         Ministers:

      (1)    Agreed on the need for stronger, coordinated and consistent advocacy for the
             recognition of the unique vulnerabilities faced by Pacific Island States; and

      (2)    Directed the Secretariat to work with other regional groupings, such as the Caribbean
             Community, to progress the technical and advocacy work in this area.

  Pacific Resilience Facility

25.         Ministers:

      (1)    Strongly reaffirmed their political support for the proposal on the Pacific Resilience
             Facility;

      (2)    Directed the Secretariat to develop a work programme to progress the development of
             the Pacific Resilience Facility for the consideration of Ministers, out-of-session;




                                                   9

                                                    Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   63
-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

      (3)    Agreed to advise Forum Leaders on the progress of the proposal for a Pacific
             Resilience Facility, through the development of an Information Paper for Leaders
             consideration at their meeting in September, 2018; and

      (4)    Agreed on the need for consistent and coordinated advocacy on the Pacific Resilience
             Facility and noted the valuable opportunity of the ADB Annual Meeting to be held in
             Suva, Fiji in 2019 as an important advocacy platform.



     JOINT DIALOGUE BETWEEN THE PRIVATE SECTOR AND THE CIVIL
     SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS

     26.     Economic Ministers, Private Sector representatives and CSOs held a joint dialogue on
     Friday, 27 April 2018. The outcomes of the joint dialogue is attached as ANNEX 1.




                                                      10

64   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

                                                      ANNEX 1:
OUTCOMES OF THE JOINT DIALOGUE OF ECONOMIC MINISTERS, PRIVATE
          SECTOR AND CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS

                                   Friday, 27 April 2018

PRIVATE SECTOR DIALOGUE OUTCOMES:
1.      Economic Ministers acknowledged the issues raised by the Private Sector and discussed
the regional repository for government procurement for regional private sector, support for
disaster risk management, focus on renewable energy and financing, and private sector
representation.

2.     Ministers:

Disaster Risk for Business and Households
(1)    Supported building on existing regional initiatives on the economic risk assessment
       and recovery model for the business sector to better inform, plan and prepare the
       business communities on loss and damage; and

 (2)   Encouraged agencies working in the Insurance and Climate impact spheres to work
       with the Private Sector to create affordable insurance products for micro and small
       businesses and households.

Renewable Energy
(3)  Recognised that the Private Sector will be an important vehicle for supporting
     investment in renewable energy, in particular, local investments; and

 (4)   Shared a vision with the Private Sector for the region becoming 100% reliable on self-
       generated renewable energies.

Business Harmonisation and a Regional Tendering Process
(5)   Recommended the development and management of a single regional tender portal for
      the advertisement of all Government tenders across the region; and

 (6)   Recommended that PIPSO facilitate consultations to identify priority business
       environment issues, based on consultations with governments, business and civil
       society in the region, and submit a progress report to the next FEMM in collaboration
       with relevant partners.

Sustainable Financing for Private Sector Representation

 (7)   Strengthen existing and create new partnerships with the Private Sector on matters of
       regional and national policy development, including Private Sector endorsed
       representation on relevant Government Boards;

                                             11

                                             Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   65
-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

       (8)    Partner with the Private Sector to deliver Government outputs on MSME development
              and capacity building.



      CIVIL SOCIETY ORGANISATIONS DIALOGUE OUTCOMES:
      3.     Economic Ministers and representatives of Civil Society Organisations welcomed the
      opportunity for open and constructive dialogue. Economic Ministers strongly supported the
      focus of sports as a means for engaging youth, tackling NCDs, embracing inclusivity through
      including people with disabilities, and improving overall economic activity propelled by
      sporting activities and remittances.

      4.      Ministers:

       (1)    Endorsed the preliminary findings of the CSOs partnered research on ‘the contribution
              of sports to the SDGs Roadmap and return on investment for sport in Pacific island
              countries with preliminary Case studies of economic and social impact of sports in Fiji
              and Samoa’;

       (2)    Welcomed an expansion of regional efforts for data collection and statistical analyses
              to include physical education and sport for evidence-based policy making;

       (3)    Endorsed establishing a joint Pacific Sport Physical Education, and Physical Activity
              Action Plan; and a regional coordination mechanism to implement it through: (i)
              providing support and technical assistance to Forum Island countries and territories;
              and (ii) developing integrated systems for data collection, analyses, policy development
              and implementation partnership with University of the South Pacific (USP), Oceania
              National Olympic Committee (ONOC), and the governments of Fiji and Samoa;

       (4)    Supported initiatives to scale-up investment in Pacific youth through adequately
              funding the regional and national youth councils, networks and entities to support the
              Pacific Youth Development Framework as a regional enabler for building resilience of
              youth necessary for vibrant economies;

       (5)    Endorsed partnerships with CSOs to access global climate finance, as well as
              strengthen implementation and monitoring at the community level;

       (6)    Recognised the cost of climate-induced migration and displacement. Furthermore,
              called for the refinement of understanding of economic and non-economic losses
              arising from loss and damage applicable to the Pacific context in partnership with CSOs
              and their communities;

       (7)    Recognised that financial inclusion work has progressed in some PIF members,
              however, called for a regional financial inclusion framework in PIF members with

                                                       12


66   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

      targeted support for vulnerable groups, including women, youth, elderly, and persons
      with disabilities;

(8)   Supported the implementation of the Pacific Regional Framework on the Rights of
      People with Disabilities; and

(9)   Recognised the importance of allocating requisite resources to implement the
      Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities at the national level.




                                           13
                                            Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   67
-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

                  2018 Forum Foreign
                  Ministers Meeting
                  Apia, Samoa
                  10 August, 2018




68   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

                     2018 FORUM FOREIGN MINISTERS MEETING

                                        10 August 2018
                                         Apia, Samoa
        The 2018 Pacific Islands Forum Foreign Ministers Meeting was held in Apia, Samoa on
10 August 2018. The Meeting was chaired by the Honourable Prime Minister of Samoa, and was
attended by the President of Nauru, the Prime Minister of the Cook Islands, the Prime Minister of
Tonga, the Deputy Prime Minister of New Zealand, the Deputy Prime Minister of Samoa, and the
Vice-President of New Caledonia. The meeting was also attended by Ministers from Australia,
Fiji, French Polynesia, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Republic of the Marshall Islands, Samoa,
Tuvalu and Vanuatu. The Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati and the Solomon Islands were
represented by officials. The Ulu o Tokelau represented Tokelau, as Associate Member.

2.     The meeting was also attended by heads of the Pacific Islands Forum Fisheries Agency
(FFA), the Pacific Community (SPC), the Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment
Programme (SPREP), and the University of the South Pacific (USP).

3.     Ministers expressed their appreciation to the Government of Samoa for the excellent
arrangements for the meeting and the warm hospitality accorded to delegations.

Building a Strong Pacific: Our People, Our Islands, Our Will
4.      Forum Foreign Ministers welcomed the theme proposed by the incoming Chair, Nauru, for
the upcoming meeting of Pacific Islands Forum Leaders – ‘Building a Strong Pacific: Our People,
Our Islands, Our Will’- recognising its call on the Pacific Islands Forum to strengthen our
collective will to overcome our persistent development challenges and drive our own ambitions.
Ministers recognised the theme as building on the Blue Pacific narrative which Forum Leaders
had endorsed in 2017, and which has served to bring a revitalised commitment to regional identity
and action.
5.      Foreign Ministers recognised the timeliness and relevance of the theme in the current
geopolitical environment. With shifts in the global geopolitical landscape bringing increasing
strategic uncertainty, competition and cooperation in the Pacific, Ministers recognised both
opportunities and challenges for the Pacific.
6.      Foreign Ministers emphasised the need for the Pacific to act now, and to act collectively,
to drive the Pacific’s own political and development ambitions. Foreign Ministers reflected on
strategic opportunities for building a stronger Blue Pacific and also discussed priority areas for
regional action.

                                                                                                   1


                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   69
-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

     7.      Foreign Ministers committed to the Blue Pacific as a crucial narrative to the 2018 theme,
     ‘Building a Strong Pacific: Our Islands, Our People, Our Will’, enabling the Pacific Islands Forum
     to work together to advocate, engage and address our collective challenges, interests and
     opportunities that deliver on our regionalism priorities and ambitions under the Framework for
     Pacific Regionalism.

     Strengthening the Pacific Islands Forum’s International Engagement and Advocacy
     8.      Foreign Ministers discussed the importance of effective international engagement and
     advocacy by the Pacific Islands Forum, and recalled their commitment in 2017 to strengthening
     collective diplomacy to advance the Leaders’ priorities and vision for the Pacific region.
     9.      Foreign Ministers stressed the importance of CROP and other agencies working together
     cohesively and collaboratively to effectively support Forum Members in their collective advocacy
     in international fora to progress the priorities of the Framework for Pacific Regionalism.

     10.     Foreign Ministers:
      (i)    Endorsed the Strategy for PIF International Engagement and Advocacy;
     (ii)    Approved the following priorities for strengthened, strategic international advocacy and
             engagement in 2019: International action on climate change and strengthening Pacific
             resilience; Strengthening sustainable ocean management, use and conservation;
             Strengthening and promoting regional security; and Promoting Pacific progress on, and
             approaches to, the 2030 Agenda, including the S.A.M.O.A. Pathway;
     (iii)   Endorsed negotiating priorities and an engagement plan to support collective Forum
             advocacy and engagement at the 24th Conference of the Parties (COP 24) with regards to
             the Paris Agreement Work Programme, Talanoa Dialogues and Pre-2020 implementation
             and action; and
     (iv)    Endorsed the need for high level, consistent and sustained representation from Forum
             member countries in the lead up to, and at COP 24, to support the achievement of Pacific
             negotiation priorities.

     Regional security – Biketawa Plus Declaration
     11.     Forum Foreign Ministers recalled their recommendation to Forum Leaders in 2017 to call
     for comprehensive consultations to develop a new regional security declaration for Leaders’
     consideration in 2018. Ministers welcomed the extensive consultations that had been undertaken
     by the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat since that time to hear from a wide range of stakeholders
     their concerns about the regional security environment, and their expectations and ambitions for
     regional action on security issues.




                                                                                                     2

70   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

12.     Forum Foreign Ministers discussed the importance of the expanded concept of security,
and the wide range of security threats to the region, including the impacts of climate change which
exacerbate the damage and risks caused by nuclear waste in the Pacific. Ministers also discussed
the importance of enhanced regional security cooperation.
13.     Forum Foreign Ministers considered a revised draft declaration and recommended it for
Leaders’ consideration and endorsement in Nauru. Ministers emphasized the importance of an
effective action plan to guide the implementation of the declaration.


Securing the Pacific’s maritime boundaries


14.     Forum Foreign Ministers discussed the importance of securing maritime boundaries for the
development and security of our region. Ministers considered the benefits of setting maritime
boundaries under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, including the capacity to maximise
rights over our countries’ critical resources, such as fisheries, and to promote regional security.


15.     Forum Foreign Ministers:
(i)     Welcomed the strong demonstration of cooperation in the region which has enabled
        significant progress in setting shared boundaries within the region


(ii)    Acknowledged with appreciation the support of SPC, FFA and Australia and other relevant
        agencies which have provided continued legal and technical advice and assistance under
        the Pacific Regional Maritime Boundaries Project;
(iii)   Encouraged Members to prioritise action to finalise bilateral treaty negotiations and
        processes;
(iv)    Noting that some outstanding maritime boundaries are with Forum Dialogue Partners,
        encouraged those Forum Dialogue Partners to progress negotiations with Members;
(v)     Recognised the potential for declaration of the 200 nautical mile outer limits of Exclusive
         Economic Zones (EEZs), to realise in a practical way Leaders’ vision of the region as the
        ‘Blue Continent’;
(vi)    Encouraged Members to consider prioritising the declaration of the outer limits of their
        respective EEZs; and
(vii)   Recommended that Forum Members work together, with the support of CROP agencies,
        to develop expertise and proposals on the complex technical, legal and policy issues raised
        by the prospect of climate change impacts on the baselines of coastal states, including the
        option of referral to the UN International Law Commission as a matter of urgency.

                                                                                                    3

                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   71
-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

      Aerial surveillance programme in the Pacific
      16.     Forum Foreign Ministers:
      (i)     Agreed to the resolution proposed by Forum Fisheries Ministers “that all countries
              utilising the FFA managed Pacific Maritime Security Programme air surveillance aircraft
              programme will provide uniform treatment to these aircraft, with their crews and support
              systems to be treated as ‘State’ aircraft thereby utilising diplomatic entry clearance
              protocols and such waiver of government fees and charges as available to regular State
              aircraft”;

       (ii)   Noted the need for designation of a National Air Tasking Authority in each participating
              country to ensure coordination across relevant national agencies;
      (iii)   Noted that should blanket approval be granted for ‘State’ treatment, a Memorandum of
              Understanding will be concluded between the FFA and each participating Pacific Island
              member detailing operating processes consistent with the national laws and procedures of
              that member; and
      (iv)    Agreed that this matter should be referred to Forum Leaders for their consideration.


      Wallis and Futuna
      17.    Forum Foreign Ministers commended to Leaders the application by Wallis and Futuna for
      associate membership to the Pacific Islands Forum.


      Other matters


      18.     Forum Foreign Ministers noted:
      (i)     Palau’s invitation to Leaders to participate in the Our Oceans Conference in 2020, and
              request for Leaders’ support in advocating for partnerships, funding and technical
              support;

      (ii)    The update provided by Nauru on the preparations for the upcoming Pacific Islands
              Forum Leaders’ Meeting;
      (iii)   The initiative of Papua New Guinea, as chair of APEC 2018, to arrange an informal
              dialogue between Pacific Islands Leaders and APEC Leaders in the margins of the APEC
              Summit, noting that Australia and New Zealand will be invited as APEC Members;


                                                                                                     4

72   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

(iv)    The report from New Caledonia on preparations for their national Referendum,
        expected to be held on 4 November 2018; welcomed the impending invitation for the
        Pacific Islands Forum to observe the referendum; and recommended that New Caledonia
        also brief Leaders at the upcoming Forum meeting in Nauru;
(v)     Vanuatu’s offer to host the Pacific Islands Forum and Related Meetings in 2020;
(vi)    Vanuatu’s intention to seek a seat on the UN Special Committee on Decolonisation (C24)
        and its request for support;

(vii)   Vanuatu’s intention to table a resolution in the UN General Assembly in 2019 seeking
        reinscription of Papua (West Papua) on the UN C24 List of Non-Self Governing
        Territories, which was met with demur by Papua New Guinea, Australia and Fiji, whilst
        other countries did not make a comment;
(viii) The presentation by the Republic of the Marshall Islands on the Climate Vulnerable Forum
       (CVF) Virtual Summit, which will take place on 22 November 2018, noting the innovative
       nature of this first virtual leaders’ summit, and the last leadership level Talanoa Dialogue
       event before UNFCCC COP24 at Katowice, Poland; the request that CROP agencies
       provide technical support; and the proposal that this also be brought to the attention of
       Leaders in Nauru;
(ix)    The candidacy by the Republic of the Marshall Islands for a seat on the UN Human Rights
        Council for 2020-22, and its request for support;
(x)     The invitation by the Republic of the Marshall Islands for Members to consider and sign
        the ‘UN Secretary General’s 2019 Climate Summit and Raising Ambition by 2020: A
        Declaration for Ambition’;
(xi)    The proposal from Samoa to table the “Digital Pacific” initiative for consideration by the
        Leaders in Nauru, 2018;
(xii)   Australia’s intention to use its hosting of the 2020 Asian Ministerial Conference on
        Disaster Risk Reduction, as an opportunity to promote the interests and needs of Pacific
        countries;

(xiii) Dr Colin Tukuitonga’s candidacy to become the Regional Director for the Western Pacific
       Region of the World Health Organisation, which if successful, would place a Pacific
       Islander in this role for the first time;

(xiv)   The proposal by New Zealand for a regional dialogue on climate-induced displacement and
        migration issues to be held on the margins of the 2019 Pacific Islands Forum;




                                                                                                    5

                                               Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   73
-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

     (xv)    New Zealand’s encouragement to all Forum Members to attend the Wilton Park event,
             being co-hosted by New Zealand and the United Kingdom in December 2018 to raise
             global awareness of the impacts of climate change in the Pacific; and

     (xvi)   New Zealand’s desire to support Forum Island countries in exploring options for
             addressing human rights abuses in the region’s tuna industry.


     19.     Forum Foreign Ministers also conveyed their deep appreciation for the service to the region
     of Mr James Movick, Director General of the FFA, Mr Colin Tukuitonga, Director General of the
     Pacific Community, and Professor Rajesh Chandra, Vice Chancellor of the University of the South
     Pacific. Ministers also conveyed their congratulations to Dr Manumatavai Tupou-Roosen for her
     appointment as Director-General of the FFA.




     Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat
     10 August 2018




                                                                                                      6

74   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

                                    Children in Nauru
                                              © PIFS


Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   75
-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

     Notes




76   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report   77
-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

78   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

                                         Ratu Sukuna Road, Suva, Fiji
       Phone: +679 331 2600 | Fax: +679 322 0266 | Email: info@forumsec.org | Website: www.forumsec.org


                                            Our Secretariat Values:
                          As an organisation and as individuals we work and serve with:

                                 Respect | Integrity | Inclusiveness |Accountability




80   Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat | 2018 Annual Report
-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

