Annual Report 2017

End Extreme Poverty • Boost Shared Prosperity

Accelerate
economic growth

Build
human capital

Foster
resilience

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
2 Message from the President of the World Bank Group and Chairman
of the Board of Executive Directors
4 World Bank Group 2017 Summary Results
8 Message from the Board of Executive Directors
12 Message from the Chief Executive Officer of the World Bank
15 Helping Countries to Achieve Their Development Priorities
30 Building a Better Bank: Strengthening Operations and Policies
32 Expanding the World’s Development Knowledge: World Bank Data
and Research
35 Regional Perspectives
60 World Bank Global Collaboration and Engagement
63 An Environmentally and Socially Responsible Institution
68 Ensuring Accountability and Improving Operations
70 The Roles and Resources of the World Bank
80 Committed to Results
KEY BOX
19 Attracting Private Sector Financing in the Most Challenging
Environments
KEY TABLES
76 IBRD Fiscal Year Data: Key Financials and Lending
78 IDA Fiscal Year Data: Key Financials and Lending

This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2016, to June 30, 2017,
has been prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development
This Annual(IDA)—collectively
Report, which coversknown
the period
fromWorld
July 1, Bank—in
2015, to June
30, 2016, has
been
Association
as the
accordance
with
prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction and
the respective bylaws of the two institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—collectively
the
World
Group
and Chairman
thethe
Board
of Executive
known
as Bank
the World
Bank—in
accordanceof
with
respective
bylaws ofDirectors,
the two has
submitted
this
report,
together
with
the
accompanying
administrative
institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of the World Bank Group and Chairmanbudgets
of the
Board
of Executive
Directors,
has submitted
report,
together with the accompanying
and
audited
financial
statements,
to the this
Board
of Governors.
administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board of Governors.

Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral
Annual Reports
for the International
Finance
Corporation
(IFC), the Centre
Multilateral
Investment
Guarantee
Agency (MIGA),
and
the International
for Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Settlement
of
Investment
Disputes
(ICSID)
are
published
separately.
Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
Throughout
report,the
the
term
World
andabbreviated
the abbreviated
Bank
only
Throughout the
the report,
term
World
BankBank
and the
Bank refer
onlyrefer
to IBRD
toand
IBRD
and
term
World
Group
and theBank
abbreviated
Bank
Group
IDA;
theIDA;
term the
World
Bank
GroupBank
and the
abbreviated
Group refer
to the
collective
of IBRD,work
IDA, IFC,
and MIGA.
dollar
used
in this
Annual Report
refer
to thework
collective
of IBRD,
IDA,All
IFC,
andamounts
MIGA. All
dollar
amounts
used
current
U.S.Report
dollars unless
otherwise
As a result
of rounding,
numbers
in
inare
this
Annual
are current
U.S.specified.
dollars unless
otherwise
specified.
Funds
tables may not add to totals and percentages in figures may not add to 100.
allocated to multiregional projects are accounted for at the country level in tables
and text. As a result of rounding, numbers in tables may not add to totals, and
percentages in figures may not add to 100.

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

World Bank Group Approach to Sustainable Development

2

3

GOALS

PRIORITY
AREAS

1. TO END EXTREME POVERTY BY 2030
2. TO BOOST SHARED PROSPERITY

In Haiti, the Bank helped quickly
mobilize more than $170 million
for the country after Hurricane
Matthew. (See page 50.)
Providing financial resources in
the immediate aftermath of a
crisis can help restore infrastructure
and services for people most in
need.

$1 billion in concessional
financing has been unlocked
for Jordan and Lebanon for
their support to Syrian refugees.
(See page 54.)

Accelerate
economic
growth

Foster resilience

Using innovative funding to
support vital public health services
and critical infrastructure can help
meet the needs of both refugees
and host countries’ citizens.

In Madagascar, more than
350,000 people are receiving
cash transfers and nutrition
services in the face of severe
drought. (See page 38.)
Supporting access to quality
basic services, and to social
protection when needed, can
help individuals fulfill their
potential and help countries
achieve economic success.

In Belarus, state-of-the-art technology is helping to better manage
highways and improve commercial
traffic through an important regional
corridor. (See page 46.)
Quality roads are not just infrastructure,
they’re connections between people,
markets, jobs, and opportunities.

Build human capital

In Bangladesh, nearly
690,000 children in remote,
rural areas were given a
second chance at education.
(See page 58.)
Education is a powerful driver
of development: it has large,
consistent returns in terms of
income and counters widening inequality.

In the Democratic Republic of Congo,
improvements to border facilities with
its eastern and southern neighbors is
helping to facilitate cross-border
trade. (See page 20.)
Reducing costs and wasted time at
border crossings can help integrate markets,
boost trade—including for small-scale and
women traders—and grow economies.

Read more about our work in these areas and additional project
stories at worldbank.org/annualreport.

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

The World Bank Group’s mission consists of
two ambitious, but achievable, goals:

To end extreme poverty by 2030
by decreasing the percentage of people living on less than $1.90 a day

To boost shared prosperity
by fostering income growth for poorest 40 percent in every country.

Achieving these goals will mean working with our partners in the public
and private sectors, collaborating across civil society and country governments, and engaging beneficiaries and stakeholders on the ground to
ensure that every person has an opportunity to fulfill her or his potential.
As we pursue these goals, we will focus on three priority areas:
Accelerating sustainable and inclusive economic growth—
the surest path out of poverty.
Investing in people to build human capital—so that everyone can fulfill her or his potential to thrive in the 21st century
economy.
Fostering resilience to global shocks and threats—to brace
against the challenges that could roll back progress against
poverty.
The World Bank Group tackles the global challenges that have the potential to affect everyone—by leveraging resources, creating markets, and
bringing innovative solutions to scale. We believe that the world everyone wants—where no one lives in extreme poverty and everyone has an
opportunity for a better life—is within reach.

The following websites and additional weblinks throughout the report are
provided for further information:
• Annual Report 2017: worldbank.org/annualreport
• World Bank Results: worldbank.org/results
• World Bank Open Data: data.worldbank.org
• Corporate Scorecards: scorecard.worldbank.org
• Corporate Responsibility: worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
• Access to Information: worldbank.org/en/access-to-information

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Message from the President of the
World Bank Group and Chairman of the
Board of Executive Directors

As I travel around the world, I am continually reminded of how much smaller the
world seems to be getting. Thanks to technology—especially the Internet, mobile
phones, and social media—nearly everyone can see how everyone else lives. For
many, living standards in the most developed countries, once unknown to the
world’s poor, are now as familiar as their own communities.
This awareness has changed how people think about their lives, and it is raising
expectations about what is possible. Aspirations, once rooted in local experiences,
are converging around the world. And as people’s aspirations rise, so too will
demands for education, jobs, and services like health care and transportation—
opportunities for a better life for themselves and for their families. As the world is
virtually shrinking, the divide between people is widening. Our role and our
ambition at the World Bank Group is to bridge that divide. We need to use all of
our energy, knowledge, creativity, and financing capacity to help countries meet
the expectations of all their citizens.
This means accelerating progress on our two goals—ending extreme poverty
by 2030, and boosting prosperity among the poorest 40 percent in low- and
middle-income countries. To accomplish these goals, we are supporting investments in countries that will lay the foundations for sustainable and inclusive
economic growth. We are investing in people, in the youth in particular, so that
individuals—and countries—can fulfill their potential and look toward a brighter
future. And we are strengthening resilience to the global shocks that affect all of
us—pandemics, climate change, refugees, and famine.
Yet while the world seems to be getting smaller, our challenges are multiplying.
We must constantly evolve and adapt to meet them. At the World Bank Group,
we are fundamentally rethinking our approach to development finance. We have
billions of dollars to work with, but the world needs trillions in annual funding for
development. We must now leverage our scarce resources even more to crowd in
vastly more private capital, combine it with our expertise, and invest it in developing countries.
To spur that level of financing, we need to create markets and bring more
private sector rigor and innovation to our client countries, especially the poorest and most fragile ones. We have to start by asking routinely whether private
capital, rather than government funding or donor aid, can finance a project. If the
conditions are not right for private investment, we need to work with our partners
to de-risk projects, sectors, and entire countries. Through dialogue and knowledge
transfers, we can help governments reform laws and regulations, and improve economic practices. We can instill new, more efficient ways to finance development.
This won’t be easy, but it’s the only way we can help countries at the scale that
these times require.

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

This year, the World Bank Group committed more than $61 billion in loans,
grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and private businesses.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) saw continued
client demand for its services and made commitments totaling $22.6 billion.
And the International Development Association (IDA), our fund for the poorest,
provided $19.5 billion to support the countries most in need to face their
toughest challenges.
We committed to drastically scaling up IDA’s development interventions
through innovative financing. For example, we are leveraging IDA’s equity by
blending donor contributions with internal resources and funds raised through
debt markets. As a result of these efforts and the continued strong support of our
partners, we achieved a record $75 billion replenishment for IDA18. As we head
into fiscal 2018, we’re using new tools, such as the $2.5 billion Private Sector
Window, to mobilize private capital for the poorest countries.
The International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA), our two institutions focused on private sector development, are leading our efforts to create markets and crowd in private sector
investment in developing countries.
IFC delivered a significant amount of financing for private sector development—
about $19.3 billion, including nearly $7.5 billion mobilized from investment
partners. Nearly $4.6 billion of this went to IDA countries, and nearly $900 million
went to fragile and conflict-affected areas.
MIGA issued $4.8 billion using political risk insurance and credit enhancement
guarantees to draw in private investors and lenders to developing countries.
Forty-five percent of projects supported in fiscal 2017 were in IDA-eligible
countries, and 21 percent were in countries affected by conflict and fragility.
Across the World Bank Group, we’re working to ensure that we have the
knowledge, resources, and tools to be effective and agile in the face of rapid
change. We’re ready to scale up and strengthen our engagement to help countries
overcome their development challenges, create equality of opportunity, and give
everyone the chance to meet their aspirations.

DR. JIM YONG KIM
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

	

MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT 	

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Global Commitments
The World Bank Group maintained its support for developing countries over the past year
as the organization focused on delivering results more quickly, increasing its relevance for
clients and partners, and bringing global solutions to local challenges.

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

$9.7

BILLION

$61.8
BILLION

in loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.
Total includes multiregional and global projects.
Regional breakdowns reflect World Bank country
classifications.

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

$9.5

BILLION

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

$9.7

BILLION

$7.1

BILLION
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

$9.6

BILLION
SOUTH ASIA

$16.2
BILLION

SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA

	

2017 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

World Bank Group Financing
for Partner Countries

BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
		2013	2014	2015	2016	2017

WORLD BANK GROUP
Commitmentsa		50,232	 58,190	 59,776	 64,185	61,783
Disbursementsb		 40,570	 44,398	 44,582	 49,039	43,853
IBRD
Commitments		 15,249	18,604	23,528	 29,729	22,611
Disbursements		16,030	 18,761	 19,012	22,532	17,861
IDA
Commitments		16,298	22,239	 18,966	 16,171	19,513c
Disbursements		 11,228	 13,432	 12,905	 13,191	12,718c
IFC
Commitmentsd		11,008	 9,967	10,539	 11,117	11,854
Disbursements		 9,971	 8,904	 9,264	 9,953	10,355
MIGA
Gross issuance		

2,781	

3,155	

2,828	

4,258	

4,842

Recipient-Executed Trust Funds
Commitments		 4,897	 4,225	 3,914	 2,910	2,962
Disbursements		 3,341	 3,301	 3,401	 3,363	2,919
a. Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
issuance. RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total World
Bank Group commitments differ from the amount reported in the Bank Group Corporate
Scorecard, which includes only a subset of trust-funded activities.
b.	 Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c. Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.
d. Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds
mobilized from other investors.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

The Institutions of the
World Bank Group

The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding
and knowledge for developing countries, consisting of five institutions
with a common commitment to reducing poverty, increasing shared
prosperity, and promoting sustainable development.
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Lends to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries.

International Development Association (IDA)
Provides interest-free loans, or credits, and grants to governments of the
poorest countries.

International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Provides loans, equity, and advisory services to stimulate private sector
investment in developing countries.

Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
Provides political risk insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders
to facilitate foreign direct investment in emerging economies.

International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
Provides international facilities for the conciliation and arbitration of
investment disputes.

	

2017 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Message from the
Board of Executive Directors
In fiscal 2017, the Board of Executive Directors, which began a new session in
November 2016, built on the previous Board’s work to set the strategic direction of
the World Bank Group. This work included implementing the Forward Look, a vision
for the Bank Group in 2030; extending consideration of the Bank Group’s financial
needs; and developing options to rebalance shareholding, building on the previous
year’s Dynamic Formula agreement for the realignment of member countries’ voting
power. Each of these topics will continue to be priorities in the year ahead.

Highlighting the work of the Board in fiscal 2017
The Forward Look collaboration between management and the Board has helped
to shape a common view among shareholders on how the World Bank Group can
reach the organization’s twin goals and support the 2030 development agenda.
Discussions on progress toward the Forward Look commitments, and guidance
for management on how to achieve the Bank Group’s objectives, were supported by
engagements on the International Development Association’s 18th Replenishment
(IDA18), the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) 3.0 long-term strategy, the cascade approach to leveraging private finance, the IDA Crisis Response Window and
Private Sector Window, the agile and simplified Bank programs, the People Strategy,
and the Bank Group’s fiscal 2018–20 strategy and business outlook.
In support of these engagements, the Board also provided guidance on impor­
tant issues such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(IBRD) graduation, results and performance, corporate scorecards, gender strategy,
Climate Change Action Plan, knowledge management action plan, Scale-Up Facility,
domestic mobilization and illicit financial flows, debt sustainability framework for
low-income countries, small states, scaling up solar energy, public debt management strategies, and migration and development. In addition, the Board discussed
8	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Standing (Left to Right): Andrei Lushin, Russian Federation; Hervé de Villeroché, France;
Omar Bougara, Algeria; Frank Heemskerk, The Netherlands; Subhash Chandra Garg, India;
Daniel Pierini, Argentina (Alternate); Otaviano Canuto, Brazil; Jean-Claude Tchatchouang,
Cameroon (Alternate); Andin Hadiyanto, Indonesia; Werner Gruber, Switzerland; Fernando
Jiménez Latorre, Spain; Juergen Zattler, Germany; David Kinder, United Kingdom (Alternate);
Christine Hogan, Canada; Patrizio Pagano, Italy.
Seated (Left to Right): Bongi Kunene, South Africa; Jason Allford, Australia; Andrew N. Bvumbe,
Zimbabwe; Khalid Alkhudairy, Saudi Arabia; Merza Hasan, Kuwait (Dean); Susan Ulbaek, Denmark;
Kazuhiko Koguchi, Japan; Yingming Yang, China; Karen Mathiasen, United States; Franciscus Godts,
Belgium.

the four corporate flagship reports: Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2016: Taking
on Inequality; World Development Report 2017: Governance and the Law; Global
Economic Prospects; and Doing Business 2017: Equal Opportunity for All.

Highlighting the work of the Board’s committees
The Audit Committee discussed proposals to strengthen the financial capacity of
IBRD, IDA, and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA). These proposals included the following documents: Implementation of IDA’s Hybrid Financial
Model; Operationalizing the IDA18 IFC-MIGA Private Sector Window; Increasing the
Frequency of Variable Spread Reset for IBRD IFLs (IBRD Flexible Loans); Amendments
to the General Investment Authorizations of the Bank and the Association; Proposed
Amendments to MIGA’s Guarantee Capacity and Portfolio Reinsurance Limit; and
the Revised Equity Management Framework, among others. The Audit Committee
also worked on proposals to strengthen the Bank Group’s risk management, internal
controls, and institutional integrity.
The Budget Committee provided support for the successful implementation of
the annual budgeting process by ensuring that resource allocation was guided by
principles of strategic alignment, budget sustainability, and continued focus on efficiency. The committee also provided guidance on the financial sustainability of
the Bank Group institutions, the Bank Group Expenditure Review, and other costefficiency measures.
The Committee on Development Effectiveness focused on matters pertaining
to the Bank Group’s strategic direction. It discussed the quality of Bank-supported
	

MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 	

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

operations, along with the modernization and implementation of the World Bank’s
Environmental and Social Framework, early assessments of the Program-for-Results
and Country Partnership Frameworks, and simplification initiatives.
Building on the 2016 Annual Meetings’ agreement on the Dynamic Formula, the
Committee on Governance and Executive Directors’ Administrative Matters focused
on rebalancing shareholding as part of the Shareholding Review.
The Human Resources Committee considered various activities related to the
World Bank Group’s People Strategy, including career frameworks; work in fragile, conflict, and violence-affected areas; compensation; ethics and internal justice;
workforce planning; diversity and inclusion; and the Employee Engagement Survey.

Affirming operations in critical areas
The Executive Directors approved operations or facilities as a response to emergencies, including those for Afghanistan, Chad, Ethiopia, Guinea, Kenya, Liberia, Sierra
Leone, South Sudan, and the Republic of Yemen, with engagements on the famine
and crises in Africa and the Middle East, the Global Crisis Response Platform, and the
Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.
Directors periodically travel to member countries to gain firsthand knowledge
about a country’s economic and social challenges, visit project activities financed
by IBRD and IDA, and discuss with government officials their collaboration with
the Bank Group. In fiscal 2017, Directors visited Albania, Algeria, Jordan, Kosovo,
Morocco, Serbia, and the West Bank and Gaza.
The Board also discussed the Independent Evaluation Group’s report titled
Results and Performance of the World Bank Group 2016, as well as the Inspection
Panel’s reports concerning Kenya, Kosovo, and Uganda.
Overall, the Board approved $42.1 billion in financial assistance in fiscal 2017
through 383 operations, comprising $22.6 billion in IBRD lending and $19.5 billion in IDA support. Directors also reviewed 51 country engagement products. The
Board approved an administrative budget for the World Bank of $2.6 billion for
fiscal 2018.

Defining the World Bank’s Executive Directors
The 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the World Bank’s 189 member
countries, are responsible for the conduct of the general operations of the World
Bank under delegated powers from the Board of Governors. The Executive Directors
select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current Board term is from
November 2016 to October 2018.

Guiding the organization
Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations and
strategic direction of the entire World Bank Group, and they represent member
countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They decide on proposals made by the
President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, grants, and guarantees; new policies; the
administrative budget; and other operational or financial matters. They also discuss
Country Partnership Frameworks—the central tool by which management and the
Board review and guide the Bank Group’s engagement with client countries and
support for development programs. Moreover, Executive Directors are responsible
for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an administrative
budget, and the World Bank’s Annual Report.

10	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Structuring the Board’s work
The Board has five standing committees and one ad hoc committee. Executive
Directors serve on one or more of these committees, which help the Board to
discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies
and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee, on which all Executive
Directors serve, meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of the
activities of IBRD and IDA with the independent Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, which report directly to the Board.

FIGURE 1  Committees of the Board of Executive Directors
Steering Committee for the World Bank’s (IBRD and IDA) Board

Audit Committee

Budget Committee

Oversees the Bank’s
finances, accounting,
risk management,
internal controls, and
institutional integrity.

Assists the Board
in approving the
Bank’s budgets.

Committee on
Governance and
Executive Directors’
Administrative
Matters

Human Resources
Committee

Guides the governance
of the Bank,
the Board’s own
effectiveness, and the
administrative policy
applicable to Executive
Directors’ offices.

Oversees responsibility
on the Bank’s
human resources
strategy, policies, and
practices, and their
alignment with its
business needs.

Committee on
Development
Effectiveness
Assesses the
Bank’s development
effectiveness, guides its
strategic directions, and
monitors the quality and
results of its operations.

Ethics Committee
Established in 2003 to
consider, on an ad hoc
basis, matters relating to
the interpretation
or application of the
Code of Conduct for
Board Officials

For more information on the Board of Executive Directors, visit
worldbank.org/boards.

MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 	

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Message from the Chief Executive Officer
of the World Bank

Before my return this year, I had been away from the World Bank for seven years.
During that time a lot changed in the world. New technology offers access to information and services that can boost development and save the environment. But
global shocks—economic, environmental, and political—are more frequent and
severe. The speed of change challenges our capacity to deliver. This places an even
greater responsibility on the World Bank to be an agile institution for those it serves
so they can be more resilient and adapt to change.
This year, the World Bank continued to deliver on the vision of our stakeholders
for the institution to stay fit for purpose for the 2030 development agenda and to
retain its central role in the global financial architecture.
First, we have delivered for all our clients, at all income levels, who count on our
expertise and financing to meet their development challenges effectively. With its
global reach and deep country experience, the Bank is valued as a trusted partner.
In fiscal 2017, the World Bank committed $42.1 billion, including $22.6 billion by
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and $19.5 billion
by the International Development Association (IDA), our fund for the poorest. IBRD
continued to respond to client countries’ most pressing development challenges,
while maintaining its strong fiscal balance sheet. IDA17 resources were committed
to the penny, and we are geared up for IDA18, which is significantly larger, thanks
to strong support by our donor partners.
Looking ahead, we will continue to operate in a resource-constrained environment, facing robust demand for our services. We are making every effort to
strategically deploy our resources toward activities that most significantly benefit
our clients.
Second, we have continued leading on important global issues, from famine
to forced displacement, to pandemic preparedness. We are expanding our footprint in fragile areas to do more: We responded to the famine crisis by mobilizing
$1.8 billion; the Global Concessional Financing Facility has made $1 billion available to middle-income countries that are coping with fragility; and under IDA18 we
will direct $14 billion to address fragility, conflict, and violence, as well as $2 billion in support of refugees and their host communities. And we strive to provide
innovative financial solutions to the world’s toughest development challenges.
As part of our efforts to focus on pandemic prevention and preparedness in lowincome countries, we have issued the first ever insurance instrument to provide
$500 million of coverage for outbreaks most likely to cause a major pandemic.
Third, as outlined by the President, we have been working across the World
Bank Group toward mobilizing significantly more private financing. This would
help us to maximize development finance in a way that is fiscally, environmentally,
and socially responsible. Boosting economic growth and creating jobs are critical

12	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

priorities, and unlocking the potential of women-led businesses plays a role. With
a coalition of partners, we launched the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative,
which is expected to mobilize more than $1 billion to help women access capital
and technical assistance for their businesses.
Maintaining this momentum will require the World Bank to continue improving its business model to become even more nimble and adaptive in the way we
operate. Delivering results in an evolving environment, while upholding the Bank’s
standards and quality, requires us to be flexible and creative. We are nurturing a
culture of greater innovation, empowerment, and accountability. Our Agile Bank
program tests and scales up operational improvements to help teams achieve and
sustain better results. This includes reducing paperwork and cutting red-tape,
moving to a risk-based model, and responding better to the needs of our clients
with innovative products and services. I am inspired by the positive response and
engagement across the institution in support of these efforts.
Our dedicated staff are doing an outstanding job every single day, often under
pressure and in complex and sometimes risky environments. This annual report
presents examples of recent ways we have supported countries’ progress: from
the 690,000 children in Bangladesh getting a second chance at education, thanks
to new schools; to a safety net program in Madagascar that has helped more than
350,000 people cope with drought and food insecurity; to better water and sanitation facilities in more than 11,500 rural villages of Indonesia.
I am very proud of the impressive results that our staff achieved this year. I am
also proud of our management team who ensured we had a stellar performance.
The recent changes the world has experienced have produced new and complex
challenges. We must be relentless in facing them and I look forward to working with
you all to do just that.

KRISTALINA GEORGIEVA
Chief Executive Officer of the World Bank

MESSAGE FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE WORLD BANK 	

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

14	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Helping Countries to Achieve
Their Development Priorities
To meet the goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity, the World Bank must work with countries to help them achieve their
development priorities. Doing so will take financial resources, certainly. But
it also requires data, evidence, and knowledge on how to best use those
resources for development gains. It demands a long-term commitment to
see those investments through, from conception to completion.
The World Bank brings all of these elements—financing, knowledge,
experience, and commitment—to each of its partnerships with countries
that aspire to grow their economies and provide greater opportunities
for their people. As an institution with 189 member countries, we have
an unmatched global reach that gives us the ability to work across countries and continents. We use our convening power to amplify the voices
of developing countries by bringing together international, national, and
local leaders with stakeholders to share knowledge, leverage relation­ships,
and partner for solutions. We provide a wide array of financial products,
technical assistance, and support for countries to apply global knowledge to
the challenges they face. By working with countries to implement development projects over the long term, we help to ensure that growth is not only
attainable but sustainable as well.
Three priorities guide our work with countries: accelerating sustainable and inclusive economic growth; investing in people in order to build
human capital; and fostering resilience to global shocks and threats. Working across interconnected sectors, with an increasing array of diverse partners, we aim to improve the economic prospects of countries and people
around the world.

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Accelerating Sustainable and Inclusive
Economic Growth
Sustainable economic growth continues to offer the surest path out of
poverty. The World Bank supports investments in countries that underpin
long-term growth and that help to meet the needs of their citizens. We
work with policy makers to develop markets, institutions, and economies
that are stable, equitable, and efficient. We help countries to meet their
essential infrastructure needs in a way that ensures sustainability. Through
analysis, advice, financial instruments, convening power, and crucially, a
solid evidence base, we provide our clients with the tools to make informed
development decisions for lasting impact.
16	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Pursuing low-carbon energy
Access to modern, reliable, and affordable energy is critical for countries to meet
their development needs, but it must be pursued in a sustainable manner. The
World Bank works with governments to provide low-carbon options for energy
access that fit every country’s circumstances, including renewable sources like solar.
For example, the Bank is providing more than $1 billion in lending for India’s solar
projects, including a rooftop solar initiative that will deliver electricity to millions.
Through off-grid solutions, over 1 million households in Ethiopia are gaining access
to energy, mostly with solar lanterns and home systems. Smart grids are boosting
the uptake of renewable energy in Turkey, Ukraine, and Vietnam. Comprehensive
analytical tools—like the Regulatory Indicators for Sustainable Energy (RISE), which
assess countries’ policies and regulatory support for sustainable energy—help governments to craft policies that attract private sector investments as well as to track
progress toward access to energy for all.

Providing safe water and sanitation for all
As the world’s largest multilateral source of financing for water in developing
countries, the World Bank is committed to working closely with partners to
achieve the vision of “A Water-Secure World for All.” To this end, the Bank prioritizes the sustainability of water investment, and supports financing that includes
mobilizing private capital to move toward safe water and sanitation for all. The
work promotes inclusive access to the benefits of water, institutions that manage
water equitably, and resilience to help countries cope with the impact of external
shocks on water. In Bangladesh, for example, a rural water supply and sanitation
project has provided nearly 1.2 million people with access to improved water
sources and hygienic latrines. Water and sanitation service delivery cannot be
addressed separately from sustainable and safe management. With the United
Nations, the World Bank convened a High-Level Panel on Water committed to
acting on developing water resources, and in September 2016, issued an Action
Plan that will help to ensure the availability and sustainable management of water
and sanitation for all.

Reaping the benefits of digital technologies
Digital technologies are rapidly changing the way people, businesses, and governments communicate, transact, and access services and information. The digital
economy is becoming a critical driver of economic growth, investment, and job
creation, so the adoption of digital technology by traditional industries is important
for improving productivity and opening access to new markets. The World Bank
supports countries and their citizens as they take advantage of these opportunities.
This support includes expanding affordable Internet access to the more than 4 billion people who remain unconnected, developing digital infrastructure, and building the digital skills and institutions necessary to participate in the digital economy.
In October 2016, the Bank launched a new Digital Development Partnership (DDP)
with participants from the public and private sectors to operationalize the lessons
of the World Development Report 2016: Digital Dividends. The DDP will help to
close the global digital divide to ensure that everyone can reap the economic and
social benefits of connectivity. The IDA-financed Regional Communications Infrastructure Program has supported nine countries in eastern and southern Africa,
which have significantly increased access, improved quality, and lowered the cost

	

2017 OVERVIEW 	

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

of international connectivity by as much as 90 percent through market competition
reforms and thousands of kilometers of network infrastructure investment.

Growing through better transport connectivity
Transport enables the movement of people, goods, and ideas around the globe,
and provides better access to economic opportunities, such as jobs. Transport also
plays a major role in social inclusion. Rural roads can unlock a world of opportunities for isolated communities, while urban transport that benefits low-income communities can promote access to affordable ways to reach jobs. Ensuring that such
outcomes are sustainable means tackling climate change mitigation in this sector—
which accounts for 23 percent of the world’s energy-related CO2 emissions—by
supporting the development of low-carbon, efficient transport systems. In Dar es
Salaam, Tanzania, for example, a $225 million IDA credit and a $200 million IDA
Scale-Up Facility credit are supporting the expansion of the city’s bus rapid transit
system. The system’s first phase has already reduced travel time and costs for commuters, saving them up to 90 minutes a day.

Partnering with the private sector on infrastructure
The World Bank is committed to helping governments make informed decisions
about improving access to quality, sustainable infrastructure services, including
where appropriate, using public-private partnerships. During this fiscal year, several initiatives occurred to support good decision making by policy makers on
infrastructure projects, often in collaboration with other multilateral development
banks (MDBs) or development partners. In April 2017, the second Global Infrastructure Forum took place under the theme Delivering Inclusive, Sustainable
Infrastructure. Participants from the MDBs, the G-20 (Group of 20), client countries, civil society, and the private sector discussed how MDBs can best work with
countries and the private sector to create markets for infrastructure projects.
Expanding knowledge was also a priority. With partners from across the multilateral development community, the Bank released an updated online Public-Private Partnerships: Reference Guide, which included new contributors and the
addition of topics ranging from environmental and social issues to risk mitigation
and credit enhancement. In addition, the Global Infrastructure Facility—a partnership to expand the market for private financing of infrastructure in emerging
markets—hit a milestone with 20 investment projects now under support, with
the combined potential to catalyze more than $13 billion in commercial financing.

Boosting agriculture to create jobs
Roughly 80 percent of the world’s extreme poor live in rural areas and depend
largely on farming to make a living. Because the food system currently provides
more jobs than any other sector in many countries, boosting agriculture can be
one of the most powerful tools against poverty. For nearly a decade, the Banksupported Bihar Rural Livelihoods Project, popularly known as ”JEEViKA,” improved
the livelihoods of more than 1.8 million women from rural households in Bihar, India.
The project established ’one-stop shops’ for agriculture, which connected farmers
with credit, inputs, agricultural training, and farmer field schools. Backyard poultry
farms, dairy training, product marketing assistance, and other livelihood interventions helped to boost annual incomes by 30 percent. Job skills training improved
employment prospects for over 29,000 rural youth. The project also empowered

18	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Attracting private sector financing in the most challenging environments
Official Development Assistance (ODA)—public financing for promoting development—is
not enough, year on year, to meet the world’s development financing needs. There is a
need to fundamentally rethink development financing. The World Bank is transforming the
way scarce ODA is used to maximum effect to catalyze private financing. It is doing so by
encouraging upstream public sector reforms, looking for places where the private sector can
finance development alone, and leveraging new concessional financing tools.
An example of the latter is the new Private Sector Window (PSW) from the International Finance Corporation and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency established
as part of the International Development Association’s 18th Replenishment (IDA18). This
tool will leverage $2.5 billion of IDA’s capital over the next three years to mobilize at least
$6 billion—$8 billion in additional private sector investments in the poorest and most fragile
markets. Ending poverty and boosting shared prosperity requires increased private investment in low-income countries. To achieve such an increase in IDA countries—especially
in countries affected by fragility, conflict, and violence—deploying concessional financing
through the PSW can provide critically needed support to pioneer investments in challenging markets and help get projects to scale with additional private finance.
Mobilizing new partnerships to address the constraints to investment in IDA countries
is critical. This year’s World Bank Group Development Finance Forum—the Bank Group’s
flagship annual forum on the topic—was held in Accra, Ghana, with a theme focusing on
unlocking private investment in Africa. The forum focused on using the PSW and other tools
to address persistent challenges in catalyzing private finance. Entrepreneurs, investors, government ministers, nongovernmental organizations, multilateral development banks, and
other development practitioners jointly designed approaches to unlock private investment
in the most challenging environments.

women and marginalized groups with access to government institutions and financial services, enabling $98 million in credit and facilitating more than $22.5 million
in household savings.

Strengthening protection for natural resources
Natural resource assets are rapidly being depleted. The costs associated with
increased scarcity are very high. Through the development of natural capital
accounts, the World Bank is helping clients to better manage these assets, which
typically make up about 36 percent of total wealth in developing countries. Work
on environmental sustainability promotes strong governance of marine and coastal
resources by supporting sustainable fisheries and aquaculture, establishing protected coastal and marine areas, and reducing ocean pollution. In Peru, for example,
a series of environmental development policy loans have improved the sustainability of anchoveta fishing stock through a quota system. As a result, fishers are receiving better prices for the anchoveta they catch, and commercial fishing companies
have invested in more sustainable activities.

Promoting investment through reforms to reduce risk
Reducing real or perceived risks to investors across macroeconomic, business,
and financing dimensions is a prerequisite for creating markets that can attract
the investment needed to create opportunity. In the Arab Republic of Egypt, for
example, the World Bank has provided a series of development policy loans to support a reform program that is helping the country to recover from a downturn in

	

2017 OVERVIEW 	

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

investment. The reforms introduced by the government have boosted confidence
in the Egyptian economy. They sparked strong interest by foreign investors, as evidenced by a sharp rise in portfolio inflows in January 2017, which amounted to $1.2
billion, a 10-fold increase compared to only a few months earlier. In Haiti, with World
Bank Group support, the government secured $203 million in actual investments
and support for 15,800 new direct jobs in the country’s garment sector. The joint
World Bank–International Finance Corporation (IFC) Haiti Investment Generation
Program brought together public officials, the private sector, and foreign investors
on promotion strategies and special economic zones. Despite the challenging local
environment, the program helped to attract new investors to the garment sector.

Tapping new sources of financing
Stable and diversified financial markets are also an essential building block for
achieving inclusive, sustainable growth. In an environment where long-term bank
financing is becoming increasingly scarce, countries need to tap into new sources of
financing to meet their development needs. This year, together with IFC, the World
Bank launched the Joint Capital Markets Initiative. It promotes capital market development in emerging countries by supporting liquid, diverse, long-tenor financing
and well-regulated local capital markets. This new initiative will ensure that countries
receive end-to-end analytical, advisory, and financing support for developing their
markets.

Mobilizing domestic resources for effective services
Countries that can effectively deliver services grow faster, innovate, and respond
more quickly to internal and external shocks. But without a sufficient revenue base,
governments have difficulty funding basic state services, such as road construction,
health care, and public safety. Research has found that countries that collect less than
15 percent of GDP in taxes are at a disadvantage, not only in providing services but
also in economic growth. The World Bank’s Global Tax Team has stepped up its work
in coordinating across institutions on international tax issues and delivering country-based interventions. In Armenia, for example, the Bank is helping the government
to strengthen tax collection to overcome some of the setbacks it incurred during
the financial crisis. So far, about 35,000 tax inspectors have been trained, about 96
percent of tax services are provided electronically, and the amount of tax collected
has gone up 38 percent.

Facilitating trade and integration
Increased trade integration has helped to drive economic growth in developing
economies in recent decades, lifting millions out of poverty. The World Bank works
with governments to design and implement policies to maximize trade competitiveness in both goods and services. The Great Lakes Trade Facilitation Project is facilitating cross-border trade between the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighbors
in eastern and southern Africa by reducing costs, time wasted, and harassment to
improve the operating environment at the border for traders. The project targets the
constraints faced by small-scale traders, especially women, in cross-border trade. It
seeks to improve land and lake border facilities and develop systems to better connect farmers to regional markets.

For more information on these issues, visit worldbank.org/topics.

20	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Investing in People to Build Human Capital
Human capital—the collective skills and capacity of a population—is a crucial determinant of economic growth and poverty reduction. Supporting
access for all to quality basic services such as health care, to social protection when needed, and to opportunities in education, jobs, and financial
services can lay a strong foundation for individuals to fulfill their potential
and countries to achieve greater economic success. In fact, recent evidence
shows that human capital accounts for a large share of the income variation
between countries globally. The World Bank works closely with countries to
leverage human capital investments for growth and productivity at critical
points throughout a person’s life.

	

2017 OVERVIEW 	

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Financing based on results: A successful approach
The World Bank’s focus in human capital investment is to foster universal access to
high-quality social services through accountable systems for education, health, and
social protection that can deliver results, especially for the world’s poorest people.
Notably, over a third of Bank operations in human development are now results
based, disbursing money when preagreed results are achieved. In the health sector, several countries have mainstreamed and expanded the coverage of resultsbased programs. In Cameroon, for example, results-based projects saw significant
increases in childhood vaccinations, maternal immunization against tetanus, and
coverage of modern methods of family planning.
In education, more than $3.8 billion has now been delivered against the
$5 billion for results-based financing committed over five years by President
Kim at the World Education Forum in 2015. World Bank–supported projects are
helping to improve education outcomes. In Tanzania, for example, the Education
Program-for-Results Project has visibly helped to improve learning in primary
schools. Grade 2 students can now, on average, read about 24 words per minute in
Kiswahili, up from 18 in 2013. These gains illustrate the shift that the Bank is helping
countries to achieve toward access to quality education for all.

Supporting children, adolescent girls, and women
Compelling evidence shows that experiences in the early years have a profound
impact on brain development, affecting learning, health, adult productivity, and
ultimately, the economic competitiveness of nations. Yet today, 156 million young
children show chronic malnutrition. Only half of all 3–6-year-olds have access to
preschool. The World Bank has made investing in the early years a central economic
issue by working with partners to scale up these investments in over 20 countries. In
October 2016, the World Bank Group convened the Human Capital Summit: Investing in the Early Years for Growth and Productivity, and nine countries made concrete
commitments toward this end.
The power of adolescent girls to be agents of socioeconomic change has also
been clearly documented. That is why in 2016, the Bank committed to invest $2.5
billion over five years in education projects directly benefiting adolescent girls and
has, to date, committed $1.8 billion. Since then, resources have been committed in
several places, including northeast Nigeria and Pakistan’s Punjab province. In Pakistan, the $300 million Third Punjab Education Sector Project will deliver tuition
vouchers to an additional 200,000 vulnerable adolescent girls by 2020. Also, cash
stipends will now reach 450,000 girls, encouraging secondary school completion in
a region where women are underrepresented in the labor market.
The Global Financing Facility (GFF), housed at the World Bank Group, is the
financing arm and implementation platform of the United Nations’ Every Woman
Every Child movement. It is a country-led model that draws on the diverse expertise and resources of a broad set of stakeholders. The approach creates a platform
through which the financial resources of multiple partners—public and private,
domestic and external—can come together behind a country-driven set of priorities, accelerate progress in the short term, and look at what it will take to ensure
sustainable financing. The GFF brings a focus on quality and equity to issues that
the world is underinvesting in, such as sexual and reproductive health, newborn
survival, and adolescent health and development. The GFF also steers investments
toward fragile settings: 4 of the 16 countries receiving support are classified as

22	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

fragile; 1 is just emerging from Ebola; and in 3 others, GFF activities focus on
fragile regions within the countries.

Facilitating women’s economic empowerment
Increasing economic opportunities for women is one of the most powerful ways to
grow the global economy. The World Bank Group’s Gender Strategy focuses work
on closing the remaining gaps in access to education and maternal health in those
countries where such gaps persist. It is also accelerating efforts to improve women’s
access to more and better jobs; ownership of assets (such as land and housing);
and access to technology, finance, and insurance services. In doing so, the aim is
to increase women’s capacity to exercise their voice and agency at home, in the
community, and in various levels of government, as well as to engage men and boys
in developing gender equality solutions. Accelerating progress in women’s economic opportunity will also require a focus on associated challenges, from access to
financial services to ownership of assets, among others. The Women Entrepreneurs
Finance Initiative, a new financing tool administered by the Bank Group, specifically
targets economic barriers faced by women entrepreneurs and small-to-mediumsize businesses owned by women.
The World Bank has begun to systematically collect data and build evidence
in these areas, and to bring its insights to clients. For example, the Africa Gender
Innovation Lab is increasing the adoption of effective interventions. A recent impact
evaluation of a noncognitive skills development program in Togo demonstrated
increases of 40 percent in the profits of women-owned businesses. Based on this
evaluation, plans are under way to replicate the approach in Mauritania, Mexico,
Mozambique, and Ethiopia. The Bank is also working to increase the availability and
quality of sex-disaggregated data, which are critical to understanding the depth
of the challenge and to measure progress. Under the 18th Replenishment of the
International Development Association (IDA18), pilot data collection programs will
be launched in at least six IDA countries to gather direct respondent information on
employment, assets, and entrepreneurship.
Another IDA18 commitment is to develop and implement an action plan to carry
out the recommendations of the Global Gender-Based Violence Task Force, which
was launched by President Kim in fiscal 2017 to strengthen prevention, design,
reporting, and supervision of interventions to reduce gender-based violence in
Bank Group infrastructure operations. The Bank Group will also make available at
least $3.5 million over five years through a Development Marketplace for innovations to prevent and respond to gender-based violence in low- and middle-income
countries. In addition, the Bank Group announced in November 2016 its first-ever
Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Advisor to oversee expanding the inclusion
of LGBTI (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex) groups through Bank operations and to serve as a liaison to external groups.

Promoting universal social protection
In September 2016, the heads of the World Bank Group and the International Labour
Organization announced a historic push to work toward universal social protection.
Although many developing countries are achieving such programs, only one in five
poor people in the lowest-income countries is currently covered by any form of
social protection. One example of a program that aims to leave no one behind is
Pakistan’s Benazir Income Support Program, which provides regular cash transfers

2017 OVERVIEW 	

23

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

to approximately 22 million of the country’s poorest people. The Bank-supported
Pakistan National Social Protection Program-for-Results is strengthening this system,
including such efforts as cutting-edge beneficiary identification.
Similarly, some 1.5 billion people in the world, most of whom belong to the
poorest and most vulnerable groups, lack the official identification needed to access
basic services and opportunities in health care, education, jobs, financial services, or
social benefits. The mission of the Bank’s Identification for Development initiative is
to foster inclusive development by helping countries to build secure and efficient ID
systems. The program received an important boost in fiscal 2017 with the establishment of a multidonor trust fund with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The fund
will provide the opportunity to build a common platform to advance global knowledge and activities on this emerging topic, accelerate engagement with country
clients, and test new approaches.

Assisting in the realization of universal health coverage
The World Bank has embraced the mission of assisting countries in their progressive realization of universal health coverage (UHC). The support that it provides to
clients focuses on three key areas: ensuring effective health service delivery; promoting protection against financial risk; and mobilizing the efforts of other sectors
to improve health and nutrition outcomes. Together with the World Health Organization, the Bank has committed to produce every two years, since 2015, a Global
Monitoring Report focused on UHC. Now regarded as the global standard used
to measure progress toward UHC, the report includes updated data to show how
many people worldwide are receiving quality health services and how many are
being pushed into poverty because of out-of-pocket health care costs. In addition,
the World Bank is supporting the development of pandemic preparedness plans in
all countries receiving new IDA funding. It has also created and operationalized the
Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility to ensure that once an outbreak hits, funding can be deployed rapidly to protect countries from health and economic crises.

Addressing income inequality through financial services
Countries across the globe are facing new challenges that threaten to undermine
the equity gains in past decades. Income inequality, for example, threatens to derail
progress against poverty. One way to address income inequality and unlock economic opportunity is to bring “unbanked” individuals into the formal and regulated
financial system. Access to financial services allows people to start and expand businesses, invest in education, manage risk, and weather financial shocks. In Nigeria,
for example, a new online registry system is allowing micro, small, and mediumsize enterprises to secure loans against such assets as machinery, livestock, and
inventory—rather than the traditional assets of land and buildings. In Afghanistan,
an IDA-financed project is helping poor households to improve their lives by providing them with livestock and the necessary training to generate income to meet
their basic needs. It aims at graduating participants from safety net programs to
income-earning activities, linking them with microfinance programs.

24	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Ensuring sustainable urbanization
One billion people live in slums today, and although 80 percent of GDP is generated in urban areas, social exclusion, inequality, and poverty are rapidly growing
in cities. Through its work in urban development, the World Bank aims to build
sustainable cities and communities using an urbanization process that is inclusive,
resilient, productive, and livable. To this end, the Bank is conducting research
on the links between urban spatial development, housing, and the urban environment and growth. Country-specific urbanization reviews encourage national
and city-level policy makers to think strategically about the opportunities and
challenges of urbanization. In addition, regional studies can provide a broad and
comparative view of the issues, for example, Africa’s Cities: Opening Doors to the
World. The report, published in February 2017, suggests that if well managed,
cities in Africa can create productive environments that can spur innovation and
attract international investment while also creating livable environments that can
contain urban costs.

For more information on these issues, visit worldbank.org/topics.

2017 OVERVIEW 	

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Fostering Resilience to Global Shocks and Threats
The world is facing a mounting set of challenges—from the evolving crises of
forced displacement to the increasing impacts of climate change—that require
a broad approach to address the sources of instability and build resilience. The
World Bank is increasingly working to anticipate, respond to, and tackle these
challenges with knowledge, financial resources, and strong, long-term relationships with clients and partners. We must protect poverty reduction gains
against some of the most severe shocks that threaten to roll back decades of
progress. If complacent, we will lose the opportunity to lift the poor and the
most vulnerable out of poverty.
26	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Addressing the growing risks of fragility, conflict, and violence
Addressing fragility, conflict, and violence (FCV) is a significant development challenge, with more than 60 percent of the global poor expected to live in fragile and
conflict-affected states by 2030. A spike in violent conflict in recent years, the ongoing refugee crisis, and risks such as climate change can cause further instability, with
impacts far beyond national borders.
Innovative financing is needed. Preparations are under way to implement IDA18,
which will double resources for countries affected by FCV as a group to more than
$14 billion. New financing mechanisms include $2 billion to support refugees and
host communities, $2.5 billion to spur private enterprise, and support for countries to address the drivers of fragility risks. Other instruments, such as the State
and Peacebuilding Trust Fund, are designed to work quickly and flexibly in all crisis
situations, and they have enabled immediate response to risks such as famine. For
example, $5 million was allocated from the trust fund to Somalia in support of the
government’s response to drought and to strengthen community resilience.

Partnering to connect humanitarian and development assistance
The World Bank is advancing a broader approach to FCV that aims to build stability
and resilience and that emphasizes prevention and early action. Stronger collaboration
with partners is critical to success, which the Bank has undertaken through multiple
initiatives. For example, along with the United Nations (UN), the Bank launched the
Humanitarian-Development-Peace Initiative to work together in new ways in countries affected by FCV, including Cameroon, northeast Nigeria, Somalia, Sudan, and
Yemen. In addition, the report Forcibly Displaced: Toward a Development Approach
Supporting Refugees, the Internally Displaced, and Their Hosts, prepared by the
World Bank Group in partnership with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and
published in September 2016, articulated a development approach that supports
both refugees and host communities with longer-term, socioeconomic solutions,
which is informing policy dialogue. A new UN–Bank Group joint study on preventing
violent conflict is also under way, which looks at how development processes interact
with security, diplomatic, humanitarian, and other aspects to inform policies.

Investing in human development in crisis areas
The World Bank makes human development investments in over 70 percent of
fragile and conflict-affected states. To neglect human development needs in these
settings amounts to a lost opportunity to build the foundations of future human
capital, and places countries in a vicious cycle of poverty and violence. For example, children have been devastated by Yemen’s crisis, with thousands killed and
many more at risk of disease and malnutrition. With renewed conflict, Yemen has
suffered massive damage to medical infrastructure, interrupted medical supplies,
and the departure of foreign health workers. However, despite the halting of Bank
operations in the country, a partnership with the World Health Organization and
UNICEF (United Nations Children’s Fund) has allowed IDA to continue to support
critical work on the ground. These resources supported national polio campaigns,
vaccinations for 5 million Yemeni children, treatment for more than 150,000 cases
of cholera, and other essential maternal and child health and nutrition services for
half a million women and children.
The World Bank Group is also mobilizing an immediate response to the devastating food insecurity for Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, Somalia, South Sudan, and Yemen.

	

2017 OVERVIEW 	

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

It is bringing $1.8 billion to build social protection systems, strengthen community resilience, and maintain service delivery to the most vulnerable. Funds will be
used for emergency food security projects, safety net programs, and agriculture and
water programs in Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria, South Sudan, and Yemen. Resources
from existing projects will be redirected to help communities threatened by famine.
These actions will complement the efforts of affected governments and humanitarian partners.

Harnessing opportunities from climate action
Climate change is already affecting countries and communities around the world,
and the poorest and most vulnerable are being hit the hardest. Concerted and rapid
action will be key to mitigate the effects of climate change. A shift to low-carbon
development is already under way around the world as countries see the potential
for climate action to create jobs, drive economic growth, and improve air quality
and reduce congestion in cities. The World Bank is working on several fronts to help
countries achieve their national climate targets, the Nationally Determined Contributions, which were submitted by more than 140 Bank client countries as part of
the Paris Agreement on climate change.
The World Bank Group has committed to increase its climate financing to 28
percent of the Bank Group’s portfolio by 2020, in response to client demand. To
meet this commitment, the organization adopted a Climate Change Action Plan
that lays out ambitious targets to be met by 2020 in such areas as clean energy,
climate-smart agriculture, disaster risk management, and sustainable urbanization.
Since then, the Bank Group has been moving quickly toward meeting these targets.
In 2016 and 2017, projects representing 10 gigawatts of renewable energy capacity
were approved or are in an advanced stage of preparation, with fund mobilization
of $6.5 billion. During the same period, 10 new operations were approved that
when put into place, will improve the climate resilience of over 50 million people.

Building resilience to disasters and crises
Each year, natural disasters cost $520 billion in losses and force some 26 million
people into poverty. Disaster risk management is a cornerstone of the World Bank’s
resilience agenda, with a portfolio that increased by nearly fifty percent over fiscal
years 2012–16, from $3.7 billion to $5.4 billion. The Bank currently works across
more than 70 countries helping to mainstream disaster risk management into
development efforts through a combination of financing, technical assistance,
capacity-building, and knowledge-sharing activities. It supports client countries
with innovative tools to identify risk and financial products to protect national
budgets. The Bank has formed pivotal partnerships in such key areas as early warning systems, strengthening the resilience of rapidly growing cities, and building
safer schools. In addition, it has focused on ensuring that resilience is inclusive by
engaging communities and women in developing local disaster risk management
solutions.
IDA helps the poorest nations to adapt to climate change by building their resilience to disasters and promoting sustainable development to minimize their vulnerability. Building on current practice, starting July 1, 2017, all World Bank operations
will be screened for climate and disaster risk, beginning from the concept note
stage and using upgraded tools based on the IDA experience. IDA18 will further

28	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

build resilience and preparedness. IDA18’s Crisis Response Window is significantly
expanded after being depleted quickly from responding to pandemics, floods,
and earthquakes. The replenished IDA17 window provided timely responses to the
drought and food crises in Africa and Yemen in early 2017. In addition, the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility provides IDA countries with more than $500 million
in insurance coverage against the risk of pandemic outbreaks over the next five
years, through a unique financing structure that combines the World Bank’s first
Pandemic bonds and derivatives, a cash window, and future commitments from
donor countries.

Issuing World Bank Green Bonds and SDG-linked Bonds
The World Bank is also moving to help unlock the trillions of dollars that will be
needed for climate action through greening the financial sector. Since 2008, IBRD
has issued more than $10 billion in 18 currencies through benchmark bonds in
U.S. dollars, euros, and Australian dollars; smaller bonds in other currencies; and
structured green bonds. World Bank Green Bonds, a financing mechanism in support
of environmental and climate action, have supported 84 climate-related projects
in 24 member countries, where they have increased energy efficiency and helped
to develop renewable energy, among other impacts. Because they are rated triple-A,
World Bank Green Bonds have an additional benefit: They are often an entry point
to sustainable investing for investors who want to have a positive impact but also
need to be comfortable with the investment instrument, risk and return, as well as
the issuer.
The World Bank was one of the first issuers of Green Bonds in 2008 and has
pioneered the development of the market, issuing Green Bonds for institutional and
retail investors in a variety of currencies and structures. The Bank has also developed
market best practice for use of proceeds documentation and has led efforts to harmonize reporting on the impact of green bonds to enable investors to align their
asset allocation strategies with environmental and social investment considerations.
The World Bank also issued bonds that for the first time, directly link returns to
the performance of companies advancing global development priorities set out in
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), raising €163 million from institutional
investors in France and Italy. Proceeds from the SDG-linked bonds support IBRD
development activities, and bond investor returns are linked to the stock performance of companies that are included in the Solactive Sustainable Development
Goals World Index because they support the goals in their operations. The bonds
are part of the Bank’s broader strategy to introduce the SDGs to the market. This
innovation demonstrates the role of capital markets in connecting savings with
development priorities, and is one way that the Bank continues to work to meet its
goals and the vision of the global sustainable development agenda.

For more information on these issues, visit worldbank.org/topics.

For more information on World Bank Green Bonds and SDG Bonds, visit
treasury.worldbank.org.

2017 OVERVIEW 	

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Building a Better Bank:
Strengthening Operations
and Policies
The World Bank Group is firmly committed to reaching its twin goals: to eradicate
extreme poverty and to boost shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. Guided
by the collaborative process between the Board of Executive Directors and management under the banner of the Forward Look, the Bank Group has committed
to becoming an organization that is more agile, efficient, and effective, and can
better serve its country members. The process has helped to shape a common
view among shareholders on how the entire Bank Group can reach the twin goals
and support the 2030 development agenda. Within this context, the World Bank
has worked to improve its operations in multiple ways during fiscal 2017, as well as
inaugurated new policies to better support its clients. 

Improving how the World Bank works
This year, the Bank expanded efforts to make its operations work better, addressing
not only structures and systems but also behaviors to work more efficiently and
provide better service.
•  Operational simplification efforts continued to focus on policy-level priorities,
including the launch of the new Procurement Framework. There are also efforts in
place to streamline project restructuring, develop new programmatic approaches
to help clients reach strategic development goals, and simplify project documents
for improved content and increased focus on lessons learned.
•  An Agile Bank program was introduced to test new ways of working, with the goal
of improving speed and efficiency without sacrificing quality or results, to provide
greater value for clients. Three Agile pilot teams, made of diverse staff from across
the Bank, generated and successfully tested more than 20 innovations for improving how operations are developed and implemented. In the year ahead, the Bank
will roll out several of these ideas across the institution, while a new cohort of staff
will participate in the program to further test and develop new ideas.
•  The Bank is also simplifying and modernizing its administrative processes and
systems. Specifically, several initiatives are under way to provide higher-quality,
more timely, and cost-effective services related to managing people and financial
resources, accessing information, and other corporate services. These include the
launch of a resource management portal to provide easy access to up-to-date
budget information for better management control; the implementation of faster
ways for staff to access systems; and the use of mobile apps for staff to access and
administer internal services and information.
•  The Bank has undertaken a Refreshing Our Values initiative that aims to unify
staff around an aspirational work culture and the principles that guide the desired
organizational behavior. Staff have been engaged in a global conversation to provide input for a refreshed Core Values statement, which will express the norms
and behaviors needed by staff at all levels of the institution for a better Bank. The
statement will be a powerful tool for management to communicate its vision and
expectations for how staff work together.
30	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

The World Bank Environmental and Social Framework
In August 2016, the World Bank adopted a new Environmental and Social Framework. This framework—the result of the most extensive consultations ever conducted by the Bank—is expected to go into effect in 2018. It will incrementally
replace the current Safeguard Policies because the framework and the Safeguard
Policies will operate in parallel for about seven years. The framework offers broader
and more systematic coverage of environmental and social risks. The scope of social
issues explicitly addressed has been expanded. It includes references to such issues
as occupational health and safety, labor and working conditions, and community
health. Equally, the Environmental and Social Framework promotes transparency,
capacity building, and stakeholder engagement. It includes nondiscrimination provisions against disadvantaged or vulnerable individuals or groups. It also highlights
additional environmental issues, including the estimation of project greenhouse gas
emissions, the sustainable management of living natural resources, and water management. An intensive preparation and training period is now under way, with a set
of readiness indicators in place to monitor the progress of this preparation and the
framework’s subsequent launch.
For more information, visit worldbank.org/esf.

The World Bank Procurement Framework
Public procurement—the process by which public authorities purchase work,
goods, or services from companies—accounts for at least 15 percent of GDP in
developing economies. Each year, World Bank investment projects generate up to
$20 billion in global procurement markets, with close to 100,000 contracts awarded
annually in 136 countries. With sums such as these, even marginal improvements in
performance can generate significant fiscal savings that can be reinvested in other
priority areas. Recognizing this opportunity and responsibility, the Bank enacted a
new Procurement Framework to help countries make the best use of their public
spending while enhancing the strategic role of procurement in development effectiveness. Informed by extensive global stakeholder consultations, this framework
became effective July 1, 2016.
The framework goes beyond the establishment of rules-based and complianceoriented systems. It complements the Bank’s shift to more adaptable operational
approaches with support to low-capacity countries to simultaneously build their
procurement institutions and strengthen their own policies. The framework allows
greater flexibility for each World Bank–financed operation to identify the right procurement approach; extend the range of procurement practices and options; offer
more tailored, context-specific approaches for fragile and conflict-affected states;
and provide more hands-on support from Bank staff to help clients build capacity and strengthen institutions. During the first year of implementation, the Bank
has focused on changing its operational model, updating staff skills, building the
capacity of clients, and promoting a broader cultural shift in how it approaches
procurement.

For more information, visit worldbank.org/procurement.

STRENGTHENING OPERATIONS AND POLICIES 	

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Expanding the World’s
Development Knowledge:
World Bank Data and Research
The World Bank produces innovative and evidence-based research to help its client
countries and their partners meet their development ambitions. These efforts clarify
the economic and social issues vital to successful projects and programs, guide the
policy dialogue among country clients, and influence global development policies
and thinking more generally. The Bank pursues its data and research work through
Advisory Services and Analytics, flagship reports and publications, and through
extensive knowledge work.
The Bank’s work spans multiple themes and regions, allowing the institution to
harness multisectoral, integrated research that reflects the strategic priorities of
countries, the Bank, and the wider development community. The diverse range of
priority research areas includes service delivery, risk management, job creation and
competitiveness, shared prosperity and inclusion, and global public goods, among
others. These themes buttress the Bank’s overarching commitments to end extreme
poverty and boost shared prosperity by accelerating inclusive growth, investing in
people, and building resilience in families and communities to shocks and threats to
their livelihoods and physical well-being.

Employing Advisory Services and Analytics:
Technical advice on specific challenges
Advisory Services and Analytics (ASA)—that is, the World Bank’s nonlending activities—are a vital part of how it contributes to development. Member countries use
the Bank’s technical advice and analysis to develop or implement better policies,
programs, and reforms that help to sustain development over the long term. The
funding for these products and activities comes from donor trust funds, the Bank’s
own budget, or clients, who pay for them directly.
In fiscal 2017, the Bank delivered 1,423 ASA products in over 150 countries. The
products ranged from reports on key economic and social issues to knowledgesharing workshops, policy notes, and implementation action plans. The analysis
often forms the basis for assistance strategies, government investment programs,
and projects supported by Bank lending and guarantees. In the Middle East and
North Africa region, for example, the Bank carries out analytical work and helps to
develop strategies so that countries better understand the challenges facing refugees and host communities in order to formulate responses.
About 10 percent of the ASA portfolio consists of Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS). These are highly customized and flexible advisory services requested
and paid for by clients. The World Bank has around 200 active RAS engagements
in about 50 countries across its six regions. In fiscal 2017, the Bank delivered about
140 such services in approximately 34 countries. Besides typical ASA activities,
Reimbursable Advisory Services also offer preparation and implementation support
for client-financed projects. Through such services, the Bank serves all its member
states, including nonborrowing countries. Eligible clients include central governments and government agencies, municipalities, state-owned enterprises, civil society organizations, international organizations, and aid agencies.

32	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Across different regions, Reimbursable Advisory Services are being used for different purposes. For example, they are being used to strengthen public financial
management systems in Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates; to increase the quality of health care in Poland; to strengthen internal audit in Kazakhstan; and to support accountability and transparency reforms in Paraguay. A RAS program in Kuwait
also focuses on quality improvements in education using a system-wide approach
to reform that is based on international best practice and customized to the country’s needs.
For more information, visit
worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/products-and-services#3.

Publishing flagship research on key development
questions
The World Bank produces high-profile flagship publications that focus on key development topics. These publications are available to download online for free as part
of its Open Access Policy. In fiscal 2017, the Bank published four key reports.
•  Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2016: Taking on Inequality. The Poverty and
Shared Prosperity series provides national and global audiences with the latest,
most accurate estimates of trends in global poverty and shared prosperity. It
also offers in-depth research on progressive policies and interventions that can
improve the lives of the world’s poorest people. The inaugural edition found that
the world made significant progress in the fight against poverty over the past
three decades, reducing extreme poverty from 35 percent to 10.7 percent of the
population in 2013. In 60 out of 83 countries that it measured, the incomes of
the poorest 40 percent grew from 2008 to 2013 despite the global financial crisis.
However, given the flat growth trends, tackling inequality will be critical to ending
extreme poverty by 2030 and boosting shared prosperity.
•  World Development Report 2017: Governance and the Law. The World Development Report, published annually since 1978, is an invaluable guide to the economic, social, and environmental state of the world today. The focus of the 2017
report, on governance and the law, found that improving governance is key to
ensuring equitable growth in developing countries. By looking at country-specific
examples, the report identified three winning ingredients for effective policies:
guaranteeing credible commitment, supporting coordination, and promoting
cooperation among policy actors.
•  Global Economic Prospects. This semiannual flagship report examines global
economic developments and prospects, with a special focus on emerging markets and developing countries. Global Economic Prospects, June 2017: A Fragile
Recovery forecast that global economic growth would strengthen to 2.7 percent
in 2017 amid a rebound in manufacturing and trade, rising market confidence,
and stabilizing commodity prices. However, a number of risks, including economic and political uncertainty, could throw the recovery off track. The report
warns that persistently weak productivity and investment growth could erode the
long-term growth potential in emerging markets and developing economies and
slow poverty reduction.
•  Doing Business 2017: Equal Opportunity for All. The Doing Business report is
an annual publication on the state of business regulations that affect the private

WORLD BANK DATA AND RESEARCH 	

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

sector within an economy. It is based on detailed diagnostics of the business
regulatory system, the efficacy of the bureaucracy, and the nature of business
governance. These characteristics can have important long-run implications for
economic growth, which has accounted for a large part of poverty reduction in
recent decades. Since its launch in 2003, the report has documented over 2,600
reforms undertaken by governments in areas measured by the report, an indication of the value of this storied report.
In addition to its publications and research, the World Bank harvests and provides data on a large set of indicators for client countries and development practitioners via the well-known World Development Indicators and the more recent
Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals. The Open Data website, where Bank data
are freely available in multiple languages, was redesigned this year to be faster and
more mobile friendly.
For more information, visit worldbank.org/publications.

Generating ideas and filling knowledge gaps:
Trust fund support
Trust funds are often used to promote global public goods and pilot innovations
that may later be brought to scale. Many of the World Bank’s knowledge works are
supported by trust funds, a good example of which is the Knowledge for Change
Program (KCP). The program is financed by a multidonor trust fund established
to pool intellectual and financial resources to generate new knowledge, pilot new
ideas, and fill the knowledge gap in development. Established in 2002, the program
has raised over $60 million and funded more than 300 projects in research and data
collection, which support the development of effective policies and programs in
developing countries. Donor countries include Australia, Canada, China, Denmark,
Estonia, Finland, France, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Norway, Singapore, Sweden,
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
The Knowledge for Change Program supports innovations in data collection,
helping to replace slow and expensive traditional methods. For example, a KCP
project supported the development of a Computer-Assisted Personal Interviewing
survey solution—a free software application for tablets to achieve faster, better, and
cheaper data collection. The software has since been used in 85 countries. Another
KCP project supplemented gaps in country census data in the Democratic Republic
of Congo by using satellite imagery and machine learning methods to estimate
household counts and select samples. The research is now being scaled up under
a Strategic Research Program grant, which will feed into methodological guidelines
on sampling using noncensus data.
The program also focuses on developing analytical tools to allow policy makers
and researchers to generate their own analysis and produce evidence-based policy. For example, PovcalNet is an interactive computational tool that allows users
to replicate calculations made by World Bank researchers in estimating the extent
of absolute poverty in the world and in different countries and regions. It can also
perform a range of simulations and compute the economic growth rate needed
to reach the poverty reduction goal. In fiscal 2017, PovcalNet delivered 33.8 million
computations for users around the world.
For more information, visit data.worldbank.org.

34	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Regional Perspectives
The World Bank today operates out of 140 offices worldwide. An increased
presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better understand, work
more effectively with, and provide more timely services to its partners in those
countries. Ninety-seven percent of Country Directors/Country Managers and
42 percent of staff are based in countries within each of the six geographical
regions. The following section highlights the major goals achieved, projects
undertaken, strategies revised, and publications produced in fiscal 2017.
TABLE 1  FISCAL 2017 COMMITMENTS
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION

Africa
East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

TOTAL
TOTAL
IBRD
IDA
IBRD/IDA
IBRD/IDA
($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) SHARE (%)

1,163
4,404
4,569
5,373
4,869
2,233
22,611

10,679
2,703
739
503
1,011
3,828
19,463

11,842
7,107
5,308
5,876
5,880
6,061
42,074

28
17
13
14
14
14
100

Note: IDA commitments total does not include a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.

TABLE 2  FISCAL 2017 DISBURSEMENTS
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

REGION

Africa
East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

TOTAL
TOTAL
IBRD
IDA
IBRD/IDA
IBRD/IDA
($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) ($ MILLIONS) SHARE (%)

427
3,961
2,799
3,885
5,335
1,454
17,861

6,623
1,145
310
229
391
3,970
12,668

7,050
5,106
3,109
4,114
5,726
5,424
30,529

23
17
10
13
19
18
100

Note: IDA disbursements total does not include a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.

TABLE 3  ACTIVE PORTFOLIO NET COMMITMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AS OF JUNE 30, 2017
REGION	

Africa	
East Asia and Pacific	
Europe and Central Asia	
Latin America and the Caribbean	
Middle East and North Africa	
South Asia	
Total	

IBRD	

IDA	TOTAL

6.2	
22.1	
21.9	
26.2	
14.1	
16.2	

54.7	
12.7	
3.3	
2.2	
1.1	
31.6	

60.9
34.8
25.2
28.4
15.2
47.8

106.7	

105.7	

212.4

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Africa
Africa has made progress over the past decade, both in terms of economic growth and
poverty reduction, yet the region continues to face significant challenges. Growth in
Sub-Saharan Africa slowed markedly in 2016 to 1.3 percent, but is projected to recover
moderately to 2.6 percent in 2017 and to 3.2 percent in 2018. Yet the recovery remains
fragile. Downside external risks to the region’s economic outlook remain, including a
stronger-than-expected tightening of global financing conditions, weaker improvements in commodity prices, and a rise in protectionist sentiment. Domestic risks
to the current recovery stem from an inadequate pace of reforms, rising security
threats, and political volatility ahead of elections in some countries.
Although the share of the population in the Africa region living on $1.90 a day
or less fell from nearly 43 percent in 2012 to 41 percent in 2013, 389 million people
remain in extreme poverty—more than in all other regions combined.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $11.8 billion in lending to the region for 145 projects
in fiscal 2017, including $1.2 billion in IBRD loans and $10.7 billion in IDA commitments, of which $2.3 billion was from the IDA Scale-Up Facility. The Bank also
signed seven Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with six countries for a
total of $12.3 million. These agreements provide technical advice on such issues as
governance, trade and competitiveness, and finance and markets.
The World Bank also made important contributions to data collection in the
region. The Listening to Africa initiative works with national statistical offices and
nongovernmental organizations to pilot the use of mobile phones to regularly collect information on living conditions. The approach combines face-to-face surveys
with follow-up mobile phone interviews to collect data that allows welfare monitoring. It is currently operating in six countries—Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Senegal,
Tanzania, and Togo—where there is a strong demand for data, the capacity for
implementation, and sufficient network coverage.
Key focus areas include raising agricultural productivity, building resilience to
climate change, increasing access to affordable and reliable energy, promoting
good-quality education, and supporting stability in fragile and conflict-affected
places.

Raising agricultural productivity and promoting climate-smart
agriculture
Unleashing agricultural productivity in Africa has the potential to ensure food security and provide gainful employment for the entire continent. The Bank-supported
West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program and East Africa Agricultural Productivity Program are raising incomes and improving food security for millions of Africans,
a majority of whom are women. The West Africa program, for example, reached
more than 4.5 million direct beneficiaries in 13 countries over a four-year period,
helping to increase crop yields from 30 to 150 percent. The programs also provide
smallholders with new crop varieties, food-processing tools, and other agricultural
technologies. In addition, the Bank promotes climate-smart agriculture to help build
climate resilience. For example, support from the Bank-administered Consultative
Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Fund, a multidonor trust fund,
36	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

has financed agricultural research by the CGIAR global partnership. In Uganda, this
research has helped smallholder coffee farmers to learn better farming techniques
and introduce climate-resilient coffee plant varieties, which have helped to improve
crop quality and raise incomes.

Increasing access to affordable and reliable energy
One of Africa’s greatest infrastructure obstacles remains an inadequate electricity
supply. Boosting the generation and distribution of sustainable energy is a primary
objective of the Bank’s work. In Mozambique, the $80 million Energy Development
and Access Project has connected 42,500 new consumers to the energy network. It
has financed the expansion of existing networks in fast-growing areas, including over
400 kilometers of new transmission and distribution lines. The project also extended
access in rural areas through off-grid renewable solutions, such as solar panels, providing power to over 500 health centers and 300 schools for the first time. In addition, the Bank supports comprehensive policy studies and engages governments in
systematic discussions to identify key policy barriers and mitigation strategies.

Investing in education to boost job skills
Each year in Africa and for the next decade, 11 million youth will enter the job market.  Young Africans must be equipped with the right skills and training for what
employers are seeking. The World Bank has launched initiatives to boost science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education across the region. The
Eastern and Southern Africa Higher Education Centers of Excellence, financed by
a $140 million IDA credit, is creating synergies in higher education by optimizing
limited resources and deepening cooperation between countries while equipping
young people with highly relevant skills and knowledge. The project will strengthen
skills in five clusters of regional priorities: industry, agriculture, health, education,
and applied statistics.

Fostering women’s and youth’s economic empowerment
Empowering women in business and youth with employment can help to improve
a country’s economic prospects. In Ethiopia, the Women Entrepreneurship Development Project provides access to financing and business development services
to women entrepreneurs. Over 14,000 women entrepreneurs have registered for
the program, and new donors and local financial institutions are now using their
own funds to sustainably expand the program. In the Central African Republic, an
innovative cash-for-work program, the LONDO Project, is providing short-term
employment to 35,000 workers. These temporary jobs aim to reduce vulnerability
and contribute to stability in this postconflict country.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/afr.
TABLE 4  AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

IBRD	 1,209	 669	1,163	 816	 874	 427
IDA	
10,360	 8,677	10,679	 6,595	 6,813	 6,623
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $60.9 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Building resilience to climate shocks and promoting food security
In September 2016, the government of Madagascar declared a humanitarian emergency in the country’s southern region. The people in the area had suffered several
successive years of poor crop yields. As a result of the El Niño climate cycle, drought
had been severe. Rainfall amounts were about 75 percent lower than the 20-year
average, which caused harvest losses of up to 95 percent. Over 1 million people
were estimated to be food insecure, and among them, 35,000 children under age
5 were suffering from moderate acute malnutrition. Another 12,000 young children
were suffering from severe acute malnutrition.
Because of the Social Safety Net Project launched in February 2016, the World
Bank has been able to provide an effective response to this crisis for most of the
population by scaling up cash transfers and community nutrition services. The project
aims to increase the access of extremely poor households to safety net services and
lay the foundations for a social protection system. As of early 2017, more than 350,000
people in 68,000 households who were barely scraping by have now benefited from
this $35 million program, which provides cash transfers, livelihood recovery grants,
and nutrition services in affected districts.

FIGURE 2 AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $11.8 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

14%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

11%
8%

Education

18%

Transportation

14% Energy and Extractives
7%

Social Protection

1%
Public Administration

12%

Information and
Communications Technologies

38	

5%
2%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

8%

Financial Sector
Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

TABLE 5  AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

670	

877 	

1,033 	

Population growth (annual %)	

2.7	

2.8	

2.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

503	

1,282 	

1,504

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

0.9	

2.6	

–1.5	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

	

391b	399	389
	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

51	

57	

60	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

49	

55	

58	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

62	 66	66

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

75	 77	77

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	
	

566	

747	

784	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

55.6b	45.7	41.0
	
43	 38	35
	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
846	 625	547
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	
	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

154	101	83
	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

54	 68	69

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

81	 84	84

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

12	 19	24

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

55	 63	68
	

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

25	 28	30
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

27	 32	37
	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

73	 72	70

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

0.5	 9.8	22.4
	

	

	

	

	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

39

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

East Asia and Pacific
Driven by robust domestic demand and a gradual recovery in the global economy,
developing countries in East Asia and Pacific grew 6.3 percent in 2016. Growth is
projected to remain resilient at 6.2 percent in 2017 and 6.1 percent in 2018. Growth
in China is anticipated to slow to 6.5 percent this year and 6.3 percent in 2018,
reflecting its gradual transition to lower, more sustainable growth.
Since 1990, about 1 billion people in the region have been lifted out of extreme
poverty. Yet, as of 2013, the share of the region’s population living below $1.90 a
day is estimated at 3.5 percent, while an estimated 17.1 percent live on less than
$3.20 a day. Nevertheless, in countries such as the Lao People’s Democratic Republic and Myanmar, a significant percentage of the population still lives in extreme
poverty. And countries such as Mongolia and Papua New Guinea, which have been
affected by commodity price declines, may have reversed their earlier gains.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $7.1 billion for 65 projects in the region in fiscal 2017,
including $4.4 billion in IBRD loans and $2.7 billion in IDA commitments. The Bank
also signed seven Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with three countries
for a total of $1.4 million. The Bank’s strategy in the region focuses on four areas:
private sector–led growth, inclusion, climate change, and governance. The crosscutting themes of gender and fragility are also central to the Bank’s work in the
region.

Closing the infrastructure deficit
Despite its economic resilience, there are signs that productivity growth is slowing
across the region. Contributing to this slowdown is a growing infrastructure gap.
Excluding China, estimated regional investment needs are $87 billion per year, while
actual spending is only $35 billion. In human terms, this means that nearly half a
billion people still lack access to sanitation, 111 million lack electricity, and 122 million lack water access.
Bank investments are improving access to these basic services. For example, the
PNPM (National Program for Community Empowerment in) Urban Areas Project in
Indonesia has helped over 30 million people build or rehabilitate roads and water
facilities, and provided microcredit services and financial management training
using a community-driven development approach. In Papua New Guinea, the Rural
Communications Project provided telecommunication services to half a million people in rural areas of the country, where it is difficult and costly to provide basic services and essential infrastructure.

Confronting climate change
East Asia and Pacific is at the center of the global climate challenge. The region
accounts for about one-third of global emissions, and many countries bear the
burden of climate impacts in the forms of frequent floods, storms, and sea-level
rise. Over the past three fiscal years, 27 percent of the Bank’s regional portfolio
included lending for projects or programs to address climate change. China has
one of the Bank’s largest climate change investment programs, with 70 percent

40	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

of its portfolio including environmental objectives. For example, the China Energy
Efficiency Financing program, which mainstreamed lending for energy efficiency in
Chinese banks, leveraged $350 million in Bank financing into $2.6 billion in lending for efficient, renewable energy. The project not only reduced carbon emissions
by 10 million tons annually—equivalent to eliminating 3 gigawatts of coal-fired
power—but also mainstreamed green financing in Chinese financial institutions.

Investing in human capital
To stay competitive and inclusive, the region needs to strengthen foundational
skills and early childhood education, which in many countries are weakened by the
stunted growth of children under 5 years old. In Timor-Leste, where the stunting
rate is among the highest in the region, the Community-Driven Nutrition Improvement Project is helping over 1,000 families to eat a more nutritious diet by teaching
them how to grow more nutritious crops and providing seeds and plant cuttings
to cultivate. In Vietnam, the School Readiness Promotion Project raised the share
of 5-year-olds who benefit from full-day preschool from 66 percent in 2011 to 84
percent in 2016, and ensured that over 90 percent of early childhood education
teachers and managers completed professional training programs.

Sustaining focus on partnerships for better development
The World Bank continues to build partnerships with the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation, Asian Development Bank, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, the
Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the Pacific Islands Forum, and others to maximize development
impact. The Bank Group is also working closely with new development banks,
including the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). In July 2016, the World
Bank’s Board of Executive Directors approved the first cofinancing project with the
AIIB, the National Slum Upgrading Program, to improve infrastructure in Indonesia’s
slum areas and benefit more than 9.7 million urban poor across the country.
The Bank is also working with clients to foster knowledge partnerships, such
as the Pacific Possible report series, to discuss with Pacific Island governments,
development partners, and civil society the biggest opportunities and challenges
for Pacific Island countries over the next 25 years. In China, the World Bank Group
worked closely with three government agencies and the World Health Organization to complete a joint report, Deepening Health Reform in China: Building HighQuality and Value-Based Service Delivery.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/eap.

TABLE 6  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

4,539	 5,176	4,404	 3,596	5,205	3,961
1,803	 2,324	2,703	 1,499	1,204	 1,145

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $34.8 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Water and sanitation services for the community by the community
Providing universal access to water and sanitation facilities in rural communities by
2019 is a key part of Indonesia’s development strategy. Since 2006, the government
has worked to meet this goal and to promote good hygiene practices through the
community-driven PAMSIMAS Program—to great effect. The program has reached
more than 10 million people in more than 11,500 villages across 219 districts in 32
provinces. By 2020, the expanded program will cover a total of 27,000 villages (about
35 percent of all villages) in 365 districts and 33 provinces.
With help from the program, to date, 56 percent of target communities have
eliminated open defecation, about 72 percent have adopted hand-washing programs,
and more than 84 percent of targeted schools have improved sanitation facilities and
hygiene programs. The program helps to counter illnesses, such as typhoid, that are
linked to inadequate water supply, sanitation, and improper hygiene. It also helps
to address stunted growth—a condition that affects more than one-third of the
country’s children under 5 years old. Stunting adversely affects cognitive and motor
development, lowers performance in school, and reduces productivity in adulthood.
With its community-driven approach, the PAMSIMAS Program links communities
to local and national institutions and to financing. It enables them to develop their
own customized water and sanitation solutions and to build ownership in systems
that best meet their needs. The program receives support from the World Bank and
the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

FIGURE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.1 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

16%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

7%
5%
3%

Transportation

Education
Energy and Extractives

2%

20%

10%
Social Protection
Public Administration

42	

17%

6%
10%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

3%

Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services

Information and
Communications Technologies

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

TABLE 7  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT
INDICATOR	

			CURRENT
2000	 2010	DATAa

Total population (millions)	

1,813	

1,965	

2,051	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.0	

0.7	

0.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

915	 3,780	6,680
	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

6.4

9.0

5.6	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

535b	

218

71

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

72

75

76

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68

71

72

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

98

99

99

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

98

99

99
	

4,197

10,054

11,641

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

TREND

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

29.0b	

11.1

3.5

27

18

15

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
120
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

79

63

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

42

23

18

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

92

104

98

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

82

80

79

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

17

18

20

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

80

90

94

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

59

70

75

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

89

95

96

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

32

20

20

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

2

29

45

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a.  The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b. 2002 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

THE REGIONS 	

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Europe and
Central Asia
Following a turbulent period, economic growth in the Europe and Central Asia region
is forecast to rise to 2.5 percent for 2017, up from 1.5 percent in 2016. This trend is
expected to continue to 2.7 percent in 2018. In the eastern part of the region,
the stabilization of oil prices around $50 per barrel has provided some breathing
room for governments that have begun adjusting policies to the lower level of oil
prices. In the European Union, a sustained, albeit modest, recovery started to reduce
unemployment and pushed inflation into positive territory.
Important challenges for the region have arisen from structural changes in the
global economy. New specialization patterns are emerging, and new technologies
are changing production methods and upending traditional labor market relations.
As most economies in the region by necessity move to make their production more
internationally competitive, they will have to navigate these new realities.
As of 2013, about 6.8 percent of the region’s population—more than 32.8 million
people—live in poverty, including almost 10.3 million who live on less than $1.90 a
day in 2011 purchasing power parity.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.3 billion in lending to the region for 41 projects in fiscal 2017, including $4.6 billion in IBRD loans and $739 million in IDA commitments.
The Bank also signed 33 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with 10 countries for a total of $27.5 million. These agreements provide technical advice on
such issues as education system reform, public sector governance and institutional
capacity building, and the planning and management of infrastructure investments.
The Bank’s regional strategy for Europe and Central Asia seeks to eliminate poverty and boost shared prosperity by supporting clients in three overall areas of
focus: promoting sustainable and inclusive growth, developing human capital, and
supporting resilience.

Supporting the elements of sustainable and inclusive growth
The Bank supports client countries in improving government efficiency, creating
markets with a vibrant private sector, developing the energy sector, and facilitating
regional connectivity for growth. In fiscal 2017, the Bank provided financial support
to the agricultural sectors in Kosovo, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, and Montenegro, and to road improvement projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia.
The Bank also supported investment in a range of other sectors. These included
governance and competitiveness in the Kyrgyz Republic; municipal and public services in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Serbia; judicial services in
Romania; tourism, the local economy, and competiveness in Albania; fiscal reforms in
Bosnia and Herzegovina; and the energy sectors in Turkey, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.
In addition, the Bank produced important contributions to knowledge about
the region, including its economic reports, which provided macroeconomic analysis
and policy recommendations. For example, Risks and Returns: Managing Financial
Trade-Offs for Inclusive Growth in Europe and Central Asia argues that striking the
right balance across all dimensions of financial development—stability, efficiency,
inclusion, and overall depth—is crucial for achieving and sustaining inclusive growth.

44	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Supporting people by reforming key systems
The Bank works with client countries in designing and implementing reforms to
improve the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of their pension, social protection,
education, and health care systems. In fiscal 2017, the Bank provided support to the
education sectors in Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan; to employment and job
creation in Bosnia and Herzegovina; and to health services in Belarus.
Two reports look at the opportunities and challenges created by modern trends
in society. Reaping Digital Dividends: Leveraging the Internet for Development in
Europe and Central Asia looks at the new opportunities for individuals and businesses created by the Internet and how to ensure that citizens benefit equally across
society. The Europe and Central Asia Economic Update, November 2016, Polarization and Populism outlines the structural challenges to growth and prosperity
facing the region, and examines developments across the region that have led to
increased social and political anxiety.

Prioritizing climate action and building resilience
Strategic priorities for the region also include addressing climate action and building resilience to natural disasters; facing the challenge of displaced persons; and
enabling fair, efficient, and sustainable societies.
The 37th issue of the Russia Economic Report: From Recession to Recovery,
found that the Russian economy showed encouraging signs of overcoming the
recession it entered in 2014. The April 2017 edition of the Western Balkans Regular
Economic Report: Faster Growth, More Jobs outlined how the economies of the
Western Balkans are continuing to grow, showing improvements in employment
and poverty reduction. The latest EU Regular Economic Report: Growth, Jobs, and
Integration: Services to the Rescue, projected that EU growth would remain low,
and with aging populations and sluggish investment, it would become increasingly
dependent on productivity growth.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/eca.

TABLE 8  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

IBRD	 6,679	 7,039	4,569	 5,829	5,167	2,799
IDA	 527	 233	739	 314	365	310
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $25.2 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Innovative transport solutions in Belarus
Belarus is an important transit corridor for the region. To maintain safe, efficient
road networks, and to improve the way they are operated, Belarus has worked with
the World Bank to use state-of-the-art technology to better manage and maintain
its road system. In one partnership under the Transit Corridor Improvement Project,
the Belarusian Road Engineering and Technical Center teamed up with the Bank
to develop a smartphone app called “Roadlab,” which links drivers to road maintenance authorities and allows for the automatic collection of data on pavement
quality.
In a separate project, the Road Upgrading and Modernization Project, the Bank
helped to develop a system to reduce overloaded trucks on Belarusian highways.
To better manage the large number of local and foreign trucks on its road network,
the government implemented an e-tolling and a weigh-in-motion (WIM) system to
enhance its existing systems.
The new system includes 12 WIM sites; four fixed, heavy-vehicle inspection centers;
and eight mobile stations strategically distributed throughout the network. WIM
control sites process raw data locally and send information on weighed vehicles to the
central system unit or to mobile stations and Transport Inspection patrols. This allows
axle loads to be continuously monitored, making it easier to stop overweight trucks
while allowing trucks under the weight limit to bypass inspection. The data are also
being used by the government to analyze traffic density and patterns by time and
location, which will make it possible to design targeted plans for future improvements.

FIGURE 4  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.3 BILLION

Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation
Social Protection

11%
3%

Public Administration

12%

Information and
Communications Technologies

<1%

Industry, Trade, and Services

3%

Health
Financial Sector

46	

2%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

7%
2%

Education

4%
14%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

41%

Energy and Extractives

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

TABLE 9  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

397 	

403 	

417 	

Population growth (annual %)	

0.0 	

0.5 	

0.6	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

1,788 	

7,492 	

7,676

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

7.9 	

4.6 	

0.8 	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

29b	

14 	

10

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

73 	

75 	

77 	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

63 	

66 	

68 	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

98 	

100 	

100

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

99 	

100 	

100

2,712 	

3,036 	

3,164 	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	

	

	
	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

6.3b	

2.9 	

2.2
	

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

19 	

12 	

10

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

56 	

29 	

25

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

37 	

22 	

17

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

94 	

98 	

101
	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

73 	

73 	

72

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

8	

15 	

18

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

93 	

95 	

97

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

83 	

85 	

86
	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

98 	

100 	

100

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

6	

6	

6

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

2	

36 	

59

	
	

	

	
	
	

	

	
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Latin America
and the Caribbean
Following a six-year slowdown that included two consecutive years of recession,
Latin America and the Caribbean economies are growing again. After contracting by
1.4 percent in 2016, average growth is expected to be around 0.8 percent in 2017
and 2.1 percent in 2018. However, the long slowdown hurt fiscal accounts in the
region, limiting the macroeconomic and public policy choices of many countries.
This is a challenge for solidifying the hard-won social gains made in the early
21st century. For the 17 countries with available microdata in the region, the share
of the population living on $3.20 a day or less, the threshold for extreme poverty
in the region, fell from 24.7 percent in 2003 to 11.6 percent in 2013. In total, 63.3
million people were lifted out of poverty. Despite those gains, poverty reduction has
flattened during the last two years, two-fifths of the population remain vulnerable
to falling into poverty, and the increase in the size of the middle class has slowed.
Fortifying the economic recovery is fundamental, along with strengthening
infrastructure services in tandem with the private sector, investing in human capital,
and protecting the poor.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.9 billion in lending to the region for 56 projects in
­fiscal 2017, including $5.4 billion in IBRD loans and $503 million in IDA commitments. The Bank also signed 13 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with
8 countries for a total of $5.2 million.

Promoting growth, productivity, and entrepreneurship
In fiscal 2017, the Bank worked with countries to increase growth and productivity
and to improve the business climate. In Colombia, for example, the $600 million
First Fiscal Sustainability and Competitiveness Development Policy loan is helping to
improve trade facilitation, investment, competition, business regulation, and innovation as the country implements the ongoing peace process.

Strengthening infrastructure services and sustainability
Building better and more sustainable infrastructure will require mobilizing investment from both the public and the private sectors. The Bank played a catalytic role
in this effort, providing technical assistance and financing to develop high-quality
infrastructure with a smaller carbon footprint.
In Argentina, the Bank worked with the country through the $200 million Metropolitan Buenos Aires Urban Transformation Project to improve housing in urban
slums. It also provided a $480 million guarantee to the country to manage private
investment risk in renewable energy. In Brazil, the Bank provided a grant to integrate
biodiversity conservation practices into state regulatory frameworks in order to protect the vital Pampa biome. In Mexico, the Bank’s Forests and Climate Change Project has helped to bring 1.8 million hectares under sustainable, community-based
management, and provided livelihoods for many rural residents, particularly women.
In the Caribbean, the Bank is assisting countries to modernize grid systems, and is
helping businesses to draw on renewable sources of power.

48	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

Investing in human capital and protecting the poor
One of the World Bank’s priorities in the region is to ensure opportunities for all by
supporting countries in building human capital. In El Salvador, the Education Quality
Improvement Project helped to expand full-time schooling by providing new facilities and learning materials, benefiting 16,000 students. In the Dominican Republic,
over a quarter million people were included in a social assistance program after the
development of improved systems to target the poor.
In addition, the Bank supported early childhood development and nutrition
programs in countries such as Bolivia and Guatemala to benefit pregnant women,
young children, and their families. In Bolivia, more than 70 early childhood development centers were supported in implementing improvement action plans and
meeting quality standards.

Employing advisory services, technical assistance and
convening power
Illustrating how the Bank’s role in Latin America and the Caribbean has evolved in
recent decades, countries now turn increasingly to the institution for more than
direct lending, including help through Reimbursable Advisory Services (RAS) and
technical assistance. In Mexico, a RAS agreement is helping to strengthen the special
economic zones in poor areas in the south by attracting investment and connecting
them with domestic and global markets. The Bank is also assisting Paraguay with
transparency reforms to improve accountability at the central bank.
The World Bank continued to be a vital source of ideas, best practices, and convening power for the region. A series of groundbreaking reports and conferences
served as powerful convening platforms. These included such timely studies as
Better Neighbors: Toward a Renewal of Economic Integration in Latin America;
Rethinking Infrastructure in Latin America and the Caribbean: Spending Better to
Achieve More; Stop the Violence in Latin America: A Look at Prevention from Cradle
to Adulthood; as well as Toward a Blue Economy, a report on the role of the ocean
for sustainable economic development in the Caribbean.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/lac.

TABLE 10  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

IBRD	 5,709	 8,035	5,373	 5,726	5,236	3,885
IDA	 315	 183	503	 383	303	229
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $28.4 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

49

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Responding rapidly to Haiti’s devastating hurricane
On October 4, 2016, Haiti was hit by Hurricane Matthew, a Category 4 storm and
the most destructive disaster to hit the country since the earthquake in 2010.
High winds, heavy rainfall, and a devastating storm surge caused flooding, landslides, and extensive destruction of infrastructure and livelihoods, especially in the
poorer southern departments of Grand’Anse, Nippes, and Sud. A rapid assessment
by the government, with help from the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank, estimated that damages and losses could reach up to $1.9 billion,
or 22 percent of Haiti’s GDP.
The World Bank reacted rapidly. Within two weeks, the Caribbean Catastrophe
Risk Insurance Facility set up by the Bank paid out $23 million to respond to the
government’s immediate needs. The Bank mobilized more than $49 million from
existing resources for emergency efforts, including rehabilitating roads and bridges,
repairing schools and providing school meals, repairing water systems and emergency
sanitation, scaling up a rapid cholera response, distributing seeds and fertilizer for
the winter planting season, and making cash available to repair irrigation canals. In
addition, $100 million was mobilized from IDA’s Crisis Response Window to assist
the most affected population in the southern departments with support to the
agriculture, health, water and sanitation, and transport sectors.

FIGURE 5  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

Transportation
Social Protection

11%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

6%
10%

10%

9%
4%
4%

3%

11%
Public Administration

50	

32%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

2%

Education

Energy and Extractives
Financial Sector
Health
Industry, Trade,
and Services

Information and
Communications Technologies

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

TABLE 11  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

500 	

570 	

610 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.5 	

1.2 	

1.1 	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

3,919 	

7,765 	

8,010

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.3 	

4.7 	

–1.8	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

71b	

39 	

34

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

75 	

77 	

78 	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

68 	

71 	

72 	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

97 	

98 	

98

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

96 	

98 	

98
	

1,226 	

1,557 	

1,711 	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	

	

	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

13.0b	

6.5 	

5.4
	

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

17 	

13 	

11

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

101 	

83 	

69

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

33 	

24 	

18

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

98 	

99 	

100

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

60 	

66 	

67

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

16 	

24 	

30

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

89 	

93 	

94

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

74 	

80 	

82

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

91 	

96 	

97

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

28 	

29 	

27

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

3	

34 	

54

	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

51

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Middle East and
North Africa
The Middle East and North Africa region largely remains in a state of transition. Violence and the consequences of war continue to plague many countries, while the
effects of slow economic growth in this and neighboring regions affect and prompt
needed reforms. Countries within the Gulf Cooperation Council continue to be challenged by low oil prices, but they are also moving to diversify their economies, with
some countries undertaking ambitious modernization efforts.
Economic growth in the region is forecast to slow from 3.2 percent in 2016 to 2.1
percent in 2017 but to rise again to 2.9 percent in 2018.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.9 billion in lending to the region for 25 projects in
fiscal 2017, including $4.9 billion in IBRD loans and $1.0 billion in IDA commitments.
Revenue from Reimbursable Advisory Services in fiscal 2017 was about $40 million, with the program expanding beyond the traditional areas of education, governance, economic diversification, and small and medium enterprises. In addition,
the Bank has a renewed focus on mobilizing commercial financing for infrastructure.
This has spurred infrastructure assessments for Algeria, the Arab Republic of Egypt,
Jordan, Morocco, and Tunisia. They will look at the legal, regulatory, and financial
enabling environment for greater private sector participation in infrastructure, and
the assessments will be completed early in fiscal 2018.
The Middle East and North Africa regional strategy puts the promotion of peace
and social stability at its center and remains a guidepost for Bank engagements.
The strategy’s four pillars focus on forging a new social contract; increasing regional
cooperation; building resilience, which includes the challenges of forcibly displaced
people; and supporting economic recovery and reconstruction.

Renewing the social contract
Creating more-inclusive and more-accountable governance structures and supporting private sector–driven economies to provide greater opportunities are priorities
for the Bank’s work in the region. This year, a $1 billion loan to Egypt focused on fiscal stabilization and reforms in the energy sector, targeting subsidies and enabling
measures for greater private sector participation. A $250 million operation to Jordan
focused on subsidies in water and energy while supporting private provision measures. A $1.4 billion loan to Iraq went toward fiscal support while also strengthening
public sector and energy reforms.
Supporting financial markets and the private sector is also key. A $500 million
loan for Egypt targeted poor communities in Upper Egypt to strengthen the private
sector in these disadvantaged regions. A $350 million loan to Morocco aims to bolster the country’s capital markets and financial inclusion, while a separate $50 million
loan supports Morocco’s emerging entrepreneurship ecosystem. A $500 million loan
to Tunisia will strengthen the country’s business environment and entrepreneurship
support mechanisms. The region is also developing processes for collaborating on
the fight against corruption, and will finalize this year an analytical piece that details
steps to minimize discretion in public entities and prevent state capture of resources.

52	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Increasing regional cooperation  
As the least economically integrated region, the Middle East and North Africa
regional strategy stresses greater cooperation toward peace and stability. The
abovementioned loans to Egypt, Iraq, and Jordan, supporting the energy sector,
also pave the way for greater cooperation, efficiency, and interdependence in this
crucial area. In addition, a $200 million Lebanon Roads and Employment Project
will enhance eastward land transport links to the Syrian Arab Republic and beyond.

Building resilience to forced displacement
In countries throughout the region, the challenges resulting from the millions of
forcibly displaced people, both within countries and as refugees from neighboring
countries, continue to affect the area. As part of the crisis response, a $100 million
IDA credit was extended to Lebanon on an exceptional basis for the Reaching All
Children with Education (RACE 2) Program-for-Results Project, which will further
expand education for both host community and refugee children. A $300 million
Program-for-Results operation for Jordan will enhance the economic opportunities
available for host communities and Syrian refugees by making legal jobs available in
business, with preferential access to European markets. It comprises a $100 million
exceptional IDA allocation for Jordan, $149 million IBRD loan, and $51 million from
the Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF). In addition, a $96 million loan to
Lebanon for a health resilience project will improve delivery of health services to
both host communities and refugees, as will a $36 million emergency health loan to
Jordan. Both projects include concessional financing from the GCFF.

Supporting economic recovery and reconstruction
The World Bank has expanded its support to vulnerable communities during conflict—a necessity given the ravages of war in the region. The Republic of Yemen,
in particular, has received support in multiple sectors this fiscal year. Three grants
to the country, totaling $500 million, will help with income support to poor communities, as will a $200 million additional financing loan. Another emergency $200
million grant will support primary and secondary health and nutrition, as will a subsequent additional $83 million grant to the Republic of Yemen.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/mena.

TABLE 12  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

IBRD	 3,294	 5,170	 4,869	 1,779	4,427	5,335
IDA	 198	 31	1,011	 194	 44	 391
Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $15.2 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

53

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Ensuring support for countries hosting refugees
Middle-income countries currently host roughly 6 million refugees, yet they struggle to access financing at concessional interest rates, making it difficult to afford
the costs associated with an influx of refugees. The impact of the Syrian crisis on
Jordan and Lebanon exposed this important gap in development assistance. The
Global Concessional Financing Facility (GCFF) for the region aims to fill this gap,
with an initial focus on helping Jordan and Lebanon to address the impact of Syrian
refugees. The GCFF was announced in the spring of 2016 with over $140 million in
initial pledges by seven countries and the European Commission. It set the goal of
raising $1 billion over five years for Jordan and Lebanon.
In April 2017, the GCFF announced funding for three new projects, bringing the
total concessional financing unlocked by the facility to support Syrian refugees and
host communities in Jordan and Lebanon to $1 billion—well ahead of the fiveyear timeline. The new projects will improve the lives of Syrian refugees and the
communities hosting them by expanding vital public health services in both Jordan
and Lebanon, as well as strengthening critical wastewater infrastructure in Jordan.
Additional grants for the GCFF to leverage for further concessional financing from
multilateral development banks will soon be available, thanks to a pledge by the
United Kingdom, part of which will channel through the GCFF, and a $10 million
pledge from Sweden.

FIGURE 6  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.9 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management

4%
4%

Transportation
Social Protection

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

1%
2%

Education

15%

13%

15%
Public Administration

54	

Financial Sector

23%
7%

Information and
Communications Technologies

Energy and Extractives

3%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

13%

Health

Industry, Trade, and Services

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

TABLE 13  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

281 	

336 	

374 	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.9 	

1.8 	

1.7 	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

1,568 	

3,914 	

4,565

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.3 	

3.6 	

–0.4 	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

9b	7c	—

	

—

	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

71 	

74 	

75	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

67 	

69 	

71 	

Youth literacy rate, females
(% ages 15–24)	

81 	

90 	

90

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

91 	

94 	

94

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

873 	

1,313 	

1,381 	

	
	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

c
	—	
3.0b	2.1­

24 	

19 	

17

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
125 	
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

99 	

90

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

45 	

29 	

25

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

81 	

92 	

92

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

25 	

27 	

27

4	

11 	

18

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

88 	

90 	

93

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

78 	

86 	

90

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

91 	

95 	

96

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

3	

3	

3

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

1	

21 	

39

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

—

	

	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	

	
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity. Recent poverty data for this region
is unavailable due to low survey data coverage.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2005 data.
c.  2008 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

	

THE REGIONS 	

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

South Asia
South Asia remains the fastest-growing region, with economic growth projected to
rise from 6.7 percent in 2016 to 6.8 percent in 2017 and 7.1 percent in 2018. Inflation in the region decelerated, mainly because of lower food and commodity prices;
remittance flows have stabilized in most countries; and international reserves are,
in most cases, at comfortable levels. Progress on public finance consolidation has
been uneven, and financial sector risks remain.
Strong growth has translated into declining poverty and impressive improvements in human development. Yet the proportion of people living on less than
$1.90 a day was estimated at 15.1 percent, or about 256 million people, as of
2013—a third of all the poor globally. Hundreds of millions more live slightly above
the poverty line, more than 200 million live in slums, and about 500 million go
without electricity. Many countries in the region suffer from extreme forms of social
exclusion and significant infrastructure gaps, and the larger countries are experiencing increases in inequality.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $6.1 billion in lending to the region for 51 projects in
fiscal 2017, including $2.2 billion in IBRD loans and $3.8 billion in IDA commitments,
of which $795 million came from the IDA Scale-Up Facility. The Bank also delivered
122 advisory services and analytical products, providing technical advice on such
issues as competitiveness, energy sector reform, and fragility.
The Bank’s regional strategy continues to emphasize sustaining inclusive growth
at a high rate. It focuses on providing support to private sector development
through such actions as climate-resilient investments, greater social and financial
inclusion, strengthening governance, and addressing fragility.

Focusing on the drivers of sustainable growth
Economic growth in the region has been driven mainly by consumption, and can
only be sustained at high levels if both investment and exports grow stronger. Job
creation is essential because new entrants to the labor market are estimated to be
between 1 million and 1.2 million every month for the next two decades. The World
Bank is providing support for these challenges through such projects as the $250
million Skill Mission Operation Project for India, which seeks to strengthen institutions
for skill development and to provide quality and market-relevant workforce training.

Supporting essential resilience to climate change
South Asia is highly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, including climateinduced natural disasters and sea-level rise. Progress in South Asia depends on
reducing carbon emissions, changing the energy mix, and mitigating climate
change effects. The Bank is implementing a Climate Business Plan for South Asia in
support of the countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions and their efforts to
improve climate resilience.

Implementing the Regional Gender Action Plan
The Bank is implementing its Regional Gender Action Plan for South Asia, which
is based on four of the region’s most acute development needs: human capital,
economic empowerment, voice and agency, and regional capacity building and
56	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

communication. The $63 million Socioeconomic Empowerment of Adolescent Girls
and Young Women Project in Jharkhand, India, will help adolescent girls and young
women to complete their secondary-level education and acquire relevant skills for
the job market. Additional projects are specifically addressing barriers that women
face in using transit facilities, including issues of safety, lighting, and separate toilets
and waiting areas.

Promoting regional integration
Regional integration and economic cooperation can enhance the prospects for poverty reduction and shared growth. Yet South Asia remains one of the least integrated
regions. A $150 million Regional Connectivity Project aims to improve conditions for
Bangladesh’s trade with Bhutan, India, and Nepal through improving connectivity,
reducing logistics bottlenecks, and supporting the adoption of modern approaches
to border management and trade facilitation.

Supporting policy reforms
The Bank supports countries’ reform agendas, particularly focusing on enabling the
creation of markets and improving the efficiency of the public sector at the national
and subnational levels. For example, in Pakistan, the World Bank is supporting the
government’s energy policy to reduce the cost of electricity production and to
improve the financial sustainability of the power sector through a series of Power
Sector Reform Development Credits, investment operations, and technical assistance.

Addressing fragility
The World Bank is partnering with the United Nations to confront the challenges of
forced displacement. For example, the Bank is augmenting its programs in Afghanistan and Pakistan that support refugees, internally displaced people, returnees,
and host communities. It also approved operations designed to support vulnerable
people in these countries, such as the $228 million Citizens’ Charter Afghanistan
Project, which aims to reduce poverty and enhance living standards by strengthening community development councils. A $100 million loan for the Pakistan National
Social Protection Program will strengthen the national social safety net system and
enhance access to social services for the poor.

Producing knowledge for improved competitiveness
The Bank published several important reports on South Asia this fiscal year. Competitiveness of South Asia’s Container Ports: A Comprehensive Assessment of Performance, Drivers, and Costs provides unprecedented analysis of the situation at the
region’s ports and the steps needed for improvement, including building greater
private sector participation, improving the governance of port authorities, and
creating more competition within and between ports. South Asia’s Turn: Policies
to Boost Competitiveness and Create the Next Export Powerhouse examines the
region’s potential to boost the productivity and competitiveness of firms, and recommends reforms and investments.
TABLE 14  SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2015–17
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY15	 FY16	FY17	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY15	FY16	FY17

2,098	 3,640	2,233	 1,266	1,623	1,454
5,762	 4,723	3,828	 3,919	4,462	3,970

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2017: $47.8 billion.

	

THE REGIONS 	

57

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

PROJECT SPOTLIGHT

Giving children a second chance at education in Bangladesh
Getting an education can provide opportunity and instill pride in children and their
families. In Bangladesh, 690,000 out-of-school children in remote, rural areas were
given a second chance at education thanks to 20,400 newly established learning
centers in 148 of the most disadvantaged districts. The World Bank supported this
work through the $130 million Second Reaching Out of School Children (ROSC II)
project.
Bangladesh has made remarkable progress over the past two decades by ensuring
access to education, especially at the primary level and for girls. The primary school
enrollment rate increased from 80 percent in 2000 to 98 percent in 2015, and
secondary school enrollment is now 54 percent, up from 45 percent in 2000. However,
around 5 million Bangladeshi children between the ages of 6 and 13—mostly from
poor families, urban slums, and hard-to-reach areas—remain out of school.
The ROSC II project is now in the fifth year of implementation. It builds on the
successful original $86 million ROSC project (2004–13), which helped to bring
840,000 children back to school, improve students’ competency level in Bangla and
mathematics, and increase grade completion rates. The government of Bangladesh
adopted the ROSC as the national model to reach at-risk children in rural areas, in
addition to expanding the project to underserved urban slum areas through a refined
approach, delivering second-chance education to more than 50,000 children. The
country’s efforts give parents greater confidence in their children’s future.

FIGURE 7  SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2017
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $6.1 BILLION
Water, Sanitation,
and Waste Management
Transportation
Social Protection
Public Administration
Information and
Communications Technologies
Industry, Trade, and Services

58	

6%

Agriculture, Fishing,
and Forestry

2%
12%

13%
7%

Education

14% Energy and Extractives

12%
17%

4%
8%

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

5%

Financial Sector

Health

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

TABLE 15  SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

1,387 	

1,631 	

1,766	

Population growth (annual %)	

1.9 	

1.4 	

1.3 	

GNI per capita (Atlas method,
current US$)	

441 	

1,160 	

1,616

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	

2.2 	

7.5 	

5.5 	

Population living below $1.90 a day
(millions)	

552b	

400 	

256

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

64 	

68 	

70	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

62 	

66 	

67	

Youth literacy rate, females
	
(% ages 15–24)

64 	

79 	

79

Youth literacy rate, males
(% ages 15–24)	

81 	

87 	

87

1,181 	

1,970 	

2,303	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

	

	

	
	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	

38.5b	

24.6 	

15.1

51 	

41 	

36

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio (modeled
388 	
estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

228 	

182

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

94 	

64 	

53

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

70 	

88 	

91

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male
labor force participation rate
(modeled ILO estimate, %)	

43 	

38 	

37

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by
women in national parliaments (% total)	

8	

20 	

19

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

80 	

89 	

92

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation
facilities (% population with access)	

29 	

40 	

45

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity
(% population)	

57 	

75 	

80

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

53 	

42 	

39

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

0.5 	

7	

24

SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting,
height for age (% children under 5)	

	

	
	
	
	

	
	
	
	
	
	
	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2013 and 2016; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

For a list of countries in the region and additional interactive regional data, visit
data.worldbank.org/country.

For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
worldbank.org/sar.

	

THE REGIONS 	

59

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

World Bank Global Collaboration
and Engagement

In fiscal 2017, the international community continued to deliver on its development
commitments against a backdrop of increasing global and political uncertainty. In
this context, the World Bank deepened its engagements with partners and stakeholders, recognizing that the complexity of the world’s challenges requires even
greater collaboration if the twin goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting
shared prosperity are to be realized.

Partnering for development impact
Despite the challenging environment, the World Bank continued to advocate on
issues of critical importance and to strengthen its partnerships with the international
community to deliver for the world’s poor. This was especially important during the
IDA18 Replenishment. The Bank built a coalition of hundreds of donor and borrower
governments, members of civil society, faith-based organizations, and key influencers that resulted in a record replenishment of $75 billion.
World Bank engagement with the private sector also received increased focus,
with the recognition that achieving the Sustainable Development Goals will require
investments of all kinds to move from billions of dollars in development assistance
to trillions. At international forums such as the G-20, the World Economic Forum,
and the World Bank Group–International Monetary Fund (IMF) Annual and Spring
Meetings, the Bank underscored its support for crowding in private sector financing, in coordination with development partners, and for increasing the voices of the
private sector in development discussions. This approach to development finance
and private sector engagement gained broad support and was formally endorsed
by the G-20 finance ministers and central bank governors. Ensuring that the private
resources mobilized are truly additional is one of the G-7 (Group of Seven) Principles
on coordination by international financial institutions. The Bank will play a key role in
the response of multilateral development banks in this area.
Citizens also play a critical role in helping to make public institutions more transparent, accountable, and effective, and to improve development results. Engaging
with beneficiaries—those citizens directly targeted by and expected to benefit
from a Bank-financed development project—is a priority. The World Bank has made
progress toward President Kim’s pledge to increase beneficiary feedback to 100
percent of projects with clearly identified beneficiaries by the end of fiscal 2018.
Halfway through fiscal 2017, 99 percent of approved investment project financing
had a beneficiary-oriented design, and 89 percent of approved projects included a
beneficiary feedback indicator. The implementation of citizen engagement mechanisms and indicators will be monitored from fiscal 2019 onward. 

Addressing critical issues: Climate change, human
capital development, and fragility
The World Bank continued to advocate for concerted, accelerated global action to
help low- and middle-income developing countries to meet the challenge of climate
60	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

change. This was done through platforms such as the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of Parties (COP22), the World
Economic Forum, the Bank Group–IMF Annual and Spring Meetings, and the G-7
Environment Ministerial Meeting. At COP22, the Bank focused on solutions for the
most vulnerable countries, with a new Climate Action Plan for the Middle East and
North Africa region and a report on building the resilience of developing countries
to natural disasters. During the Spring Meetings, climate leaders from government,
private sector, and philanthropy convened to explore new ways of leveraging and
targeting climate financing for maximum scale and impact.
Signaling the importance of human capital investment, the Bank established
partnerships and leveraged platforms aimed at increasing global and domestic support for the early childhood development movement—known as the Early
Years—which is a key priority investment for country-level economic growth and
competitiveness. At a high-level roundtable at the Spring Meetings, the Bank convened key partners around the Early Years agenda, creating an opportunity for them
to voice concrete commitments and to draw attention to the crucial need to work
together at the country level. Foundations have also played an important role in
support of early childhood development, from parallel funding to advocacy actions.
The Bank’s work to address the challenges of fragility, conflict, and violence to
help build resilience and stability relies on strong collaboration with humanitarian–
development–peace partners, including collaboration with civil society organizations that work in the most difficult environments. As part of these efforts, the Bank
convened a high-level meeting chaired by President Kim and UN Secretary-General
Antonio Gutteres at the Spring Meetings in response to the famine crisis in SubSaharan Africa and Yemen. Governments, development partners, and civil society
came together in support of zero tolerance for famine. To encourage innovative
financing approaches that work for a diverse group of countries affected by fragility, a high-level panel was organized emphasizing collaboration between the Bank,
United Nations, and the European Commission.

Engaging with multilaterals, civil society,
parliamentarians, the private sector, and foundations
Multilateral engagements and forums serve as important opportunities to provide
a voice for developing countries and to advance key priorities on an international
level. The World Bank expanded its collaboration with the United Nations to address
critical issues, including fragile and conflict-affected areas, refugees, famine, and
pandemics. Partnering on the sustainable development and climate change agendas, they engaged on a broad range of topics from education and health to trade
and statistics. For the German G-20 Presidency, the Bank led work to stimulate sustainable and inclusive economic development in Africa, promulgated a set of principles to mobilize greater private sector finance, and led efforts to increase women’s
economic empowerment. The Bank also contributed to the Italian G-7 Presidency,
notably through leadership on more effective coordination among international
financial institutions, including multilateral development bank (MDB) delivery of
value for money. At the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the Bank led
discussions on the role of the private sector in development with MDB partners,
hosted a pandemics simulation, and met with chief executive officers to discuss
climate financing, among other engagements. Across these forums, the World Bank
continues to lead in shaping the conversation on financing, data, and implementation, with a focus on incentivizing private sector actors to contribute to the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Civil society’s role in development and in promoting accountability and transparency is more important than ever. In fiscal 2017, civil society and faith-based organizations engaged in the IDA replenishment process; participated in consultations
and dialogue around the development and implementation of the Environmental and Social Framework; participated in a wide range of policy discussions; and
explored new areas of operational collaboration. The Civil Society Policy Forum at
	

WORLD BANK GLOBAL COLL ABORATION AND ENGAGEMENT 	

61

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

the Spring and Annual Meetings provided an additional opportunity for civil society
to engage the Bank on issues, including citizen engagement, financial intermediaries, education, energy, and climate change. As an example of the Bank’s efforts
to engage country-level stakeholders, it organized workshops with civil society and
faith-based organizations from 35 out of 48 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Parliamentarians are critical stakeholders for the Bank across the world, given
their role in financial and political decision making. There is an active program of
engagement through dialogue, information sharing, and development advocacy
with parliamentarians. Together with the IMF and the Parliamentary Network on the
World Bank and IMF (PN), the Bank organized the annual Parliamentary Conference
during the Spring Meetings, in which 212 participants from 67 countries met with
Bank and IMF leadership to talk about the global development agenda. The Bank
also facilitated parliamentarian discussions around early childhood development;
visits to Bank-supported projects; and with the PN, launched a Middle East and
North Africa chapter to tackle issues important to the region.
The Bank currently has partnerships with nearly 100 foundations across all
regions of the world. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is the Bank’s largest philanthropic funder, with programs in the areas of agriculture, health and nutrition,
water and sanitation, financial inclusion, and gender equality. Other major philanthropic partners include the United Nations Foundation, the Mastercard Foundation,
the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the William
and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the Aga Khan Development Network, Bloomberg
Philanthropies, and the Open Society Foundations.

Marking End Poverty Day
On End Poverty Day (October 17), the World Bank engaged with partners at the
local, regional, and global levels to raise awareness about the progress made and
actions needed to end poverty. Just prior to End Poverty Day, the Bank released
a new flagship report, Poverty and Shared Prosperity 2016: Taking on Inequality,
which serves as a call to action on the need to tackle inequality in order to meet
the Bank’s twin goals. The Bank also profiled Bangladesh’s experience in reducing
poverty, through a visit by President Kim and engagement with key stakeholders.
Country offices around the world organized events, discussions, and service days to
call attention to national and global progress in the fight against poverty.

Valuing the opinions of stakeholders
Alongside its global outreach efforts, the Bank prioritizes systematically measuring the views of thousands of influencers and key stakeholders in its client countries through its Country Opinion Survey Program. Their perceptions and attitudes
are tracked over time to help inform strategies across countries and across the
World Bank Group. The survey data showed that governance reform/government
effectiveness was considered the top development priority across the aggregate
of countries surveyed in fiscal 2016, while food security as a development priority
increased significantly, particularly in IDA countries. For the institution, speed and
flexibility continue to be seen as challenges. However, the Bank continues to receive
the highest ratings for its role as a long-term partner, the way in which it collaborates with governments, and the respect with which it treats stakeholders. It will
continue to build on these strengths and address areas for improvement as it fosters
the partnerships needed for development impact.

62	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

An Environmentally and Socially
Responsible Institution

The World Bank is committed to operating as a sustainable and responsible institution. Minimizing environmental impacts while maximizing well-being in its internal
business operations supports the Bank’s ability to deliver on its development goals.
This year, the Bank approved a Corporate Responsibility Strategic Plan to systematically address its environmental impacts, with support from its Managing Director
and Chief Administrative Officer. The plan highlights key areas of impact and commits the Bank to developing environmental targets. Further details can be found in
the Sustainability Review 2017 and the Bank’s responses to the Global Reporting
Initiative Index.

Our climate: Maintaining a climate-neutral Bank
through actions
Responding to climate change requires integrated global, national, and local action.
The World Bank leads by example by measuring, reducing, offsetting, and reporting
on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its facilities, major meetings, and corporate air travel.
Measuring. The Bank has measured and offset carbon emissions from Washington, DC, buildings and travel since 2006, and globally, since 2009. Details of the
carbon inventory boundaries and scopes are in the World Bank Group Inventory
Management Plan.
Reducing. The World Bank continues to pursue a 10 percent reduction in facilities-based emissions from a 2010 baseline—an emissions target set in 2012. In
2016, such emissions decreased by 5 percent from the previous year, partly because
of efficiency upgrades in both the headquarters and country offices. Emissions
related to business air travel increased around 5 percent between fiscal 2015 and
2016, and have risen overall since fiscal 2010, primarily because of increased travel
to meet client demands.
TABLE 16  WORLD BANK GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS, FISCAL 2015–17
Indicator

Absolute GHG emissions
(metric tons of CO2
equivalent)a

FY15

FY16

FY17

160,484

162,043

—

Related indicators

SDG13, GRI 305, CDP
CC7–10, 14

Note: — = not available; CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project; CDP CC = CDP’s Climate Change
indicators; GHG = greenhouse gas; GRI = Global Reporting Initiative; SDG = Sustainable
Development Goal.
a. Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. GHG
emissions data lag by one fiscal year.

	

AN ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION 	

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Offsetting. The Bank recognizes that a zero-emissions business is not possible
in the near term. To offset direct and indirect carbon emissions, the Bank purchased
and retired credits totaling $285,000 in fiscal 2016 from a portfolio of projects
including a gold standard–certified efficient cook stove project in Rwanda and a
community, conservation, and biodiversity-accredited forestry project in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The Bank also purchases renewable energy certificates
(RECs) equal to its Washington, DC, electricity consumption. In fiscal 2016, it purchased 105,287 RECs from wind projects in the northern United States.
Reporting. The Bank reports its GHG emissions to the United Nations’ Climate
Neutral Now initiative, and is the only multilateral development bank responding to
the Carbon Disclosure Project, a forum that reviews the risks, policies, and impacts
of Bank lending, as well as corporate emissions.

Our places: Managing the Bank’s impacts at its
work places
The World Bank manages the environmental, social, and economic impacts of its
internal business operations and decisions. It strives for net positive impacts on the
ecosystems, communities, and economies where it has offices.
Designing sustainably. A new Bank building in Lao PDR received Green Mark
Platinum status for its sustainable features, such as solar energy use, rainwater harvesting, artificial light sensors, sewage treatment, and managed garbage disposal.
At the New Delhi Lodi Estate office, building upgrades and the purchase of green
energy certificates through the Indian Energy Exchange achieved LEED Gold Commercial Interiors status. The World Bank now has nine buildings certified to sustainable building standards.
Being energy smart. New efficiency upgrades included eliminating three data
centers at headquarters; installing LED lighting and dimmers in staircases in the
Washington (DC), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Paris, Chennai (India), and Moscow offices;
and installing LED lights and light sensors in the Chennai, Addis Ababa (Ethiopia),
Dhaka, and Paris offices. This resulted in a 7 percent decrease in energy use. Solarpowered lighting systems were also installed at offices in Addis Ababa, Nairobi
(Kenya), and Juba (South Sudan).
Being water wise. The Washington, DC, offices standardized water coolers and
bottle-filling stations. Bottle-filling stations filter out lead and other potential contaminants and track the number of disposable water bottles replaced. In the Nairobi office, rainwater is collected and used for landscaping and cleaning external
surfaces.  

TABLE 17  SELECTED WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS, FISCAL 2015–17
Indicator	

FY15	

Global energy use (GJ)a	

FY16	

FY17	 Related indicators

538,966	 495,645	 —	

Global energy use intensity (GJ/m ) 	

SDG7, GRI 302

0.90	

0.81	

—	

CDP CC10–11

Waste diverted from landfill (%)b 	

56	

57	

61	

SDG12, GRI 306

Total PCW paper use (both copy
paper and print shop, %)b 	

60	

62	

68	

SDG12, GRI 301

2 a

Note: — = not available; CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project; CDP CC = CDP’s Climate Change
indicators; GJ = gigajoule; GJ/m2 = gigajoule per square meter; GRI = Global Reporting
Initiative; PCW = postconsumer waste; SDG = Sustainable Development Goal.
a. Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide.
b. Data are for Washington, DC, offices only.

64	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Wasting not. The Washington, DC, offices launched a new waste management
program to standardize common-area sorting stations, which includes a compost
stream. Piloted in October 2016, the program increased the percentage of waste
diverted from the landfill from a preprogram average of 59 percent to 75 percent,
and the amount of compost collected has increased by nearly 500 percent. The
cafeterias in the headquarters’ offices now offer only fully compostable carryout
containers. Campaigns to urge staff to use reusable plates and flatware are being
implemented to reduce the need for carryout containers.
Supplying sustainably. The World Bank Corporate Procurement department
realigned its program, assigning to a senior procurement officer the responsibility to integrate sustainability across its processes. The new framework consists of
three pillars—environmental, social, and diversity—that cut across sourcing categories and supply chains.  This approach identifies and benchmarks cross-cutting
and commodity-specific areas, and develops indicators and metrics to manage and
report the Bank’s progress. The program introduced a toolkit consisting of vendor
outreach and an internal communication and education component.
Giving communally. In fiscal 2017, World Bank Group staff pledged a record
$3.3 million through the Community Connections program. The Bank Group
matched gifts dollar for dollar, putting $6.6 million into the Washington, DC, region
and the world through this initiative alone. Campaigns in 25 country offices set their
own records as well, raising $211,000, including the corporate match, for nongovernmental organizations. Staff also responded to the hurricane in Haiti with donations totaling $25,000, including the corporate match.

Our people: More than 170 nationalities, working in
140 countries, with a common mission
World Bank Group staff comprise more than 170 nationalities, work in 140 countries,
and adhere to the goals of the organization. They are a primary driver of the Bank
Group’s reputation as a valued long-term development partner for countries. Their
knowledge, skills, diversity, and motivation are a key part of a comparative advantage. According to the most recent staff engagement survey, 92 percent of staff are
proud to work at the Bank Group, with the majority agreeing that it is the best place
to work in development.
Promoting an ethical culture. The success of the Bank Group’s work is dependent on a values-based culture for staff that underlies the ethical impact of its strategies and policies. The Office of Ethics and Business Conduct sets standards and
provides training, outreach, and communication to foster adherence to the ethical
obligations of Bank Group staff. The office advises staff on conflict-of-interest risk,
and when necessary, investigates allegations of misconduct. Its recent focus has
been to promote a positive approach to business ethics, along with a strong ethical
culture in all global offices, that fit the Bank Group’s goals and strategy.
The World Bank Group People Strategy. In fiscal 2017, a new three-year World
Bank Group People Strategy was developed with extensive inputs from staff and
managers from across the organization and endorsed by the Board of Executive
Directors. The strategy outlines a series of people management initiatives to align
its workforce to the Bank Group’s business strategy. It is anchored by five areas of
focus: leverage the Bank Group’s global and diverse talent; build and develop leadership and managerial capacity; strengthen performance and rewards; promote the
health, safety, and well-being of staff; and improve the Bank Group’s organizational
effectiveness. Three cross-cutting themes are embedded throughout the areas of

	

AN ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION 	

65

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

focus: enhance diversity and inclusion; grow Bank Group business in areas affected
by fragility, conflict, and violence; and focus on Human Resources fundamentals.
Two of these themes are highlighted here.
Advancing diversity and inclusion.  The diversity of staff distinguishes the
World Bank Group among international finance institutions (IFIs) and is one of the
strongest elements of its Employment Value Proposition. In fiscal 2017, the World
Bank reached its target for staff representation from Sub-Saharan Africa and the
Caribbean for the first time since 1998, and redoubled efforts to reach gender parity. The Bank Group became the first international finance institution to join the UN
Women’s HeForShe campaign and committed to achieving additional gender
equality targets. These targets include gender balance among senior management
(vice presidents and above) by 2020, second-level certification of Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE) by 2020, and a 50-50 gender balance in technical
positions by 2022. 
Growing the business in FCV situations. To address the changing landscape of
poverty, the strategy calls for a significant expansion of work in the world’s poorest
countries and those facing situations of fragility, conflict, and violence. The Bank
Group is committed to strengthening the Employment Value Proposition for staff
who put themselves in harm’s way to deliver on the organization’s mission. Efforts
on this front include providing enhanced learning and career opportunities; ensuring staff are compensated and rewarded for their commitment; and investing in the
safety, security, and well-being of staff and families in fragile, conflict-affected, and
violent locations.  
Cultivating staff knowledge. Facilitating learning enables the World Bank to
deliver solutions to clients, share cutting-edge knowledge, and retain top talent.
Development learning remains a priority for all staff, and the online Open Learning
Campus continues to expand. It currently houses 9,523 courses, and as of the end
of fiscal 2017, 87 percent of staff had attended at least one learning session. In fiscal
2017, the Bank developed a new professional learning stream that includes all Bank

TABLE 18  WORLD BANK STAFF DATA, FISCAL 2015–17
Indicator	

Total full-time staff (World Bank)	

FY15	

FY16	

FY17	

Related indicators

11,933	 11,421	 11,897	 SDG8, GRI 401	

Non-U.S. based (%) 	

39.6	

Short-term consultants/temporaries
(FTEs)	

4,295	 4,757	 4,948		

Employee engagement
(World Bank, %)	
Diversity index (World Bank)	

41.0	

42.0		

70	

73	

0.86	

0.89	

0.91	 SDG8, GRI 405

80		
39.0	

Women managers (%)	

37.8	

37.5	

Part II managers (%)	

41.4	

43.5	

43.3	

Women GF+ technical (%)	

43.1	

43.9	

44.2	

Sub-Saharan/Caribbean GF+ (%)	

11.6	

12.2	

12.9	

Average days of training per staff
in headquarters 	

3.2	

3.3	

3.7	

Average days of training per staff
in country offices	

3.6	

3.5	

4.2		

SDG8, GRI 404	

Note: — = not available; FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GF+ = salary grade GF or higher, that is,
professional; GRI = Global Reporting Initiative; SDG = Sustainable Development Goal.	
				

66	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

staff who have “Knowledge” and/or “Learning” in their position title. This enables
practitioners in the knowledge and learning community to share lessons and best
practices in order to advance innovation.
Resolving workplace conflicts. The World Bank promotes a positive and respectful workplace. Yet if a workplace conflict remains unresolved, it can be addressed
through the Internal Justice Services (IJS), which offer informal and formal services.
In fiscal 2017, IJS created and implemented a new two-tier process to address
performance evaluations, performance ratings, and the way in which staff are placed
on “Opportunity to Improve” performance plans. The first tier, the Administrative
Review (AR) process, is administered by Human Resources. The second tier, the
Performance Management Review (PMR) process, is administered by Peer Review
Services. This second step allows an impartial reviewer to evaluate the decision in
question and consider whether management acted within its discretion and otherwise satisfied its obligations to the staff member. During fiscal 2017, two-thirds
of staff members who used the AR decided not to proceed to PMR. Of those staff
members who utilized PMR, more than one-third of the cases were successfully
resolved in mediation. The new AR/PMR process gives both staff and managers a
more effective process and has significantly reduced the time it takes to resolve staff
members’ concerns about performance management decisions.
Safeguarding staff voice. Staff rights and interests are also represented by the
World Bank Group Staff Association (SA). More than 11,000 staff are members of the
SA, including memberships through 90 Country Office Staff Associations (COSA)
established around the globe. This year, the SA worked with management and the
Board to improve country office compensation, make progress on staff health benefits, and update performance management systems. The Staff Association continued to reach out to staff in country offices through its COSA network, and offered
training to field staff on the role of the SA and on employee labor rights.
For more information on corporate sustainability, visit worldbank.org
/corporateresponsibility.

	

AN ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION 	

67

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Ensuring Accountability and
Improving Operations

To ensure that it holds itself accountable to its clients and shareholders, maintains the highest performance standards in development effectiveness, protects
the integrity of the projects it finances, and constantly improves the efficacy of its
internal operations, the World Bank benefits from the expertise of four key groups:
the Inspection Panel, Independent Evaluation Group, Integrity Vice Presidency, and
Internal Audit Vice Presidency.

Inspection Panel
The Inspection Panel was established by the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors as an independent complaints mechanism for people and communities who
believe that they have been, or are likely to be, harmed by a project funded by the
IBRD or IDA. The panel is composed of three members from different countries, who
are chosen for their international development expertise, and a small secretariat.
During fiscal 2017, the panel received nine complaints and delivered to the
Board reports on investigations of cases from Uganda and Kosovo. The Board also
approved the Management Action Plan that was agreed through a mediation process following the panel’s investigation related to the resettlement of Maasai communities in Kenya. In response to the Uganda case, the World Bank created a Global
Gender-Based Violence Task Force to develop recommendations on how to prevent
and address gender-based violence in its projects. As part of its role in promoting
institutional learning and improving the development effectiveness of Bank operations, the panel continued its series drawing on lessons from its 23-year caseload by
releasing reports on indigenous peoples and environmental assessment. The Inspection Panel’s annual report is available online at worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.

Independent Evaluation Group
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) is an independent unit that reports directly
to the Board of Executive Directors. The group’s mission is to strengthen the development effectiveness of World Bank Group institutions through evaluations that
inform strategies and future work.
IEG assesses the results of World Bank operations and offers recommendations
for improvement. Through its recommendations, the group also contributes to
internal learning and improvements by informing the formulation of new directions, policies and procedures, and country and sector strategies for World Bank
work. IEG’s most recent annual review of World Bank Group results and performance
assesses development outcome trends for the World Bank at a corporate level and
by region and industry sector. This and other IEG reports are available online at
ieg.worldbankgroup.org.

Integrity Vice Presidency
The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) is mandated to prevent, deter, investigate, and
seek sanctions relating to fraud and corruption in World Bank Group–financed
68	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

projects. As a result of INT’s investigations, the Bank Group sanctioned 60 entities
in fiscal 2017. INT also entered into 22 Negotiated Resolution Agreements with individuals and entities involved in sanctionable practices, and is actively engaged with
them to improve their compliance standards. In fiscal 2017, the forensic services unit
conducted a total of 13 audits involving 19 entities, and 31 contracts valued at more
than $518 million.
The Bank Group, together with other participating multilateral development
banks, recognized 84 cross-debarments. Increasingly multijurisdictional and complex, investigations are helping the Bank to tackle risks associated with certain sectors, high-value contracts, IDA countries, and in fragile states.
INT also advises on the design and implementation of risk mitigation and monitoring tools. This year it engaged with several national authorities across the Bank’s
regions in meetings and workshops aimed at strengthening investigative, preventive, and forensic auditing capacity; information-sharing tools; and proactivity in
addressing project-related risks in the field. Following its commitments at the May
2016 UK Anti-Corruption Summit, INT is developing a Global Information Sharing
Mechanism on Administrative Remedies against Corruption to facilitate the sharing
of data about exclusions, debarments, and sanctions among anticorruption partners. INT’s annual report is available online at worldbank.org/integrity.

Internal Audit Vice Presidency
The Internal Audit Vice Presidency (IAD) reviews the World Bank Group’s processes
from an independent and objective standpoint to help improve its operations. IAD
provides advice on the Bank Group’s risk management capability, and identifies
gaps and weaknesses in its internal controls. IAD conducts both early reviews of
emerging risks and new initiatives and timely post-implementation reviews. It works
with management to develop corrective action plans, and follows up on those plans
to ensure they are implemented by the agreed date.
In fiscal 2017, IAD conducted assurance and advisory reviews in development
operations, corporate processes, and information technology and data management. Some topics that were covered include Bank Group’s sanction processes, the
World Bank’s management of climate change operations (as well as that of IFC and
MIGA), country engagement budget allocation, workforce planning, global security,
and network security and remote access. IAD’s annual and quarterly reports are
available online at worldbank.org/internalaudit.

The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
Seven years into implementation, the Access to Information (AI) Policy remains at
the core of the World Bank’s Open Agenda. The AI Policy propelled the Bank into the
information age by moving from a limited list of disclosable documents to the transformative concept that all information in the Bank’s possession should be accessible
to the public, save for those documents falling under a defined list of exceptions.
The fundamental shift toward increased transparency has contributed to the expansion of the Bank’s relationships with clients, within the development community,
and with new partners and influencers.
The AI Policy was the basis for the multitude of accompanying open initiatives—
including Open Data, Open Finances, the Open Knowledge Repository, Open
Archives, and the Consultations platform—all of which make the Bank’s work
transparent, accessible, and accountable. The main entry points to Bank information
are the online Projects and Operations portal, which provides detailed information on
lending operations, and the Documents and Reports website, which contains more
than 200,000 documents freely accessible to the public.
For more information and to submit requests for information to the World Bank,
visit worldbank.org/en/access-to-information.

	

ENSURING ACCOUNTABILIT Y AND IMPROVING OPERATIONS 	

69

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

The Roles and Resources of the
World Bank

Collaborating across the World Bank Group
The World Bank’s principle institutions—the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—
work in ever-closer coordination with the International Finance Corporation (IFC)
and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) to leverage the collective strength of the World Bank Group for the benefit of its partner countries. The
comparative advantage of the World Bank Group is its ability to work with different
stakeholders. This ability comes from the powerful combination of country depth
and global breadth, public and private sector instruments and relationships, multisector knowledge, and the ability to mobilize and leverage financing.
Before developing a new partnership strategy with a country client, the Bank
Group completes a Systematic Country Diagnostic, which identifies the barriers to
eliminating extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity in the country. World
Bank experts are organized across teams of Global Practices—14 key technical areas
of development expertise—and Cross-Cutting Solution Areas—global challenge
areas including gender, jobs, and fragility. They work in concert with country-based
staff, IFC, MIGA, and country partners to prioritize the Bank Group’s program of
financial, analytical, advisory, and convening support. These priority areas are based
on the Bank Group’s comparative advantage and the client’s priorities. This support
comes together in the Country Partnership Framework, which outlines the strategic
interventions on which the Bank Group and partner country will engage.
This process has been in place since July 2014, and as of the end of this fiscal
year, the Bank Group has completed Systematic Country Diagnostics in 62 countries
and new Country Partnership Frameworks in 46 countries. The early lessons from
the preparation of the first group of strategies indicate that this new model has
improved coordination and collaboration among World Bank Group institutions. The
Systematic Country Diagnostic has added considerable value to the Bank Group’s
engagement with countries through a robust empirical and analytical basis for prioritizing interventions.
Collaboration across IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA has grown over time, and spans
a range of activities at the regional, country, sector, and thematic levels. This collaboration includes the preparation of joint Country Partnership Frameworks, joint
investment projects—notably for infrastructure and the financial sector—and joint
advisory services and investment climate activities. For example, to help increase
clean and affordable energy in Ghana, the Bank Group is providing a $200 million
IBRD loan and a $500 million IDA guarantee for the Sankofa Gas Project. IFC is providing $300 million in financing for the project sponsor, and MIGA is providing $217
million in guarantees against risk to support the sponsor’s commercial borrowing
needs. The project will fuel up to 40 percent of Ghana’s current generation capacity
and replace polluting fuels with cleaner, more affordable, domestic natural gas.
70	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

The World Bank is accountable to its shareholders and the public through a set
of feedback and accountability mechanisms. These include the World Bank Group
Corporate Scorecard, the IDA Results Measurement System, and regular opportunities to discuss progress on operations with the Bank’s Board of Executive Directors.

IBRD financial commitments
IBRD is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries. As
the largest multilateral development bank in the world, it supports the World Bank
Group’s mission by providing loans, guarantees, risk management products, and
advisory services to middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries, as well
as by coordinating responses to regional and global challenges. In fiscal 2017, new
IBRD lending commitments amounted to $22.6 billion for 133 operations, of which
11 were IBRD and IDA blended operations. (See the regional lending tables on page
35 and the sector and theme lending tables on page 77.)

IBRD resources and financial model
To fund development projects in member countries, IBRD finances its loans from its
own equity and from money borrowed in the capital markets through the issuance
of World Bank bonds. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s,
and investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Its funding strategy is aimed
at achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing members. IBRD’s ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital markets
to developing member countries is important in helping to achieve its goals.
All IBRD bonds support sustainable development. IBRD issues its securities
through both global offerings and bond issues tailored to the needs of specific markets or investor types. Its bonds connect the private and public sectors to the World
Bank’s development goals through such investors as asset managers, insurance
companies, pension funds, central banks, corporations, and bank treasuries from
around the world. IBRD issues bonds to investors in various currencies, maturities,
and markets, and at fixed and variable terms. It often opens new markets for international investors by issuing new products or bonds in emerging market currencies.
IBRD’s annual funding volumes vary from year to year.
IBRD’s strategy has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass the
savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for lending
are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations.
In fiscal 2017, IBRD raised U.S. dollar equivalent (USDeq) 56 billion by issuing
bonds in 24 currencies. Its equity comprises primarily paid-in capital and reserves.
FIGURE 8  IBRD BUSINESS MODEL

Investments

IDA and trust funds

Loans
Income

Borrowings

Equity

Other development activities

	

THE ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

71

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Under the terms of the general and selective capital increase resolutions approved
by the Board of Governors on March 16, 2011, subscribed capital is expected to
increase by $87.0 billion, $5.1 billion of which will be paid in. The subscription periods for selective capital increase and general capital increase are expected to end
in March 2017 and March 2018, respectively, following the approval by the Board
of Executive Directors of extension requests by shareholders. As of June 30, 2017,
the cumulative increase in subscribed capital totaled $78.7 billion. Related paid-in
amounts in connection with the capital increase were $4.6 billion.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn enough
income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of
fiscal 2017 allocable net income, the Board of Executive Directors recommended
to the Board of Governors the transfer of $123 million to IDA and the allocation of
$672 million to the General Reserve. As part of its lending, borrowing, and investment
activities, IBRD is exposed to market, counterparty, country credit, and operational
risks. The World Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer leads the risk oversight function,
independently reports to the Board on an ongoing basis, and supports the institutional decision-making process via dedicated risk committees. In addition, IBRD has
put in place a strong risk management framework, which supports management
in its oversight functions. The framework is designed to enable and support IBRD
in achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner. One summary measure of
IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely managed in line with
its financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 22.8 percent as of June 30, 2017.

For more information, visit worldbank.org/ibrd.

IDA financial commitments
IDA is the world’s largest multilateral source of concessional financing for the poorest countries. It provides concessional development credits, grants, and guarantees
to support these countries’ efforts to increase economic growth, reduce poverty,
and improve the living conditions of the poor. In fiscal 2017, 78 countries were eligible for IDA assistance. In addition, India, which graduated from IDA in fiscal 2014,
received transitional support on an exceptional basis through the IDA17 period, covering fiscal years 2015–17. In fiscal 2017, new IDA lending commitments amounted
to $19.5 billion for 261 operations, of which 11 were IBRD and IDA blended operations. These commitments included $16.2 billion in credits, $3.2 billion in grants,
and $50 million in guarantees. (See the regional lending tables on page 35 and the
sector and theme lending tables on page 79.)

IDA resources and financial model
Traditionally IDA has been funded largely by contributions from developed and
middle-income partner countries. Additional financing comes from transfers from
IBRD’s net income, grants from IFC, and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA
credits. The groundbreaking IDA18 package will transform this approach by introducing a hybrid financing model that blends contributions with market debt starting IDA18. IDA received its first-ever public credit rating—triple-A—in 2016.
Development partners meet every three years to replenish IDA’s funds and review
its policies. Administrative expenses have been recovered primarily through service
charges paid by recipient countries.
IDA’s commitment authority is denominated in Special Drawing Rights (SDRs).
The U.S. dollar equivalents presented here are based on the reference exchange
72	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Borrowings

Non-concessional lending

Investments

Equity

Concessional lending and grants

Reflows and operating results

FIGURE 9  IDA BUSINESS MODEL

rate for IDA17 and provided for illustrative purposes. Under the IDA17 Replenishment, total resources amounted to SDR 38.7 billion (equivalent to $57.9 billion). This
total reflects updates made after the replenishment discussions.
A total of 48 partners, 4 of which are new contributing partners, have provided
SDR 16.9 billion ($25.5 billion) in grants, of which SDR 0.7 billion ($1.1 billion) is the
grant element from concessional partner loan contributions. Partners have provided
SDR 3.3 billion ($4.9 billion) in concessional partner loans or SDR 2.5 billion ($3.8
billion) excluding the grant element of the loans. Contributing partners have also
provided SDR 2.8 billion ($4.2 billion) in compensation for debt relief under the
Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. Credit reflows (principle and interest repayments)
from IDA recipients provided SDR 11.1 billion ($16.8 billion). This figure includes
SDR 1.9 billion ($2.8 billion) from contractual accelerated repayments of outstanding credits from IDA graduates and voluntary prepayments as well as SDR 1.7 billion
($2.6 billion) of balances carried forward from previous replenishments. Transfers
from IBRD and IFC, including associated investment income, amounted to SDR 1.7
billion ($2.6 billion). These transfers are approved annually by IBRD’s Board of Governors and IFC’s Board of Directors, and are based on evaluations of the institutions’
annual results and financial capacities.
The IDA17 commitment authority was increased by $5 billion in fiscal 2016. Of
these funds, $3.9 billion established the Scale-Up Facility for the remainder of IDA17,
$900 million replenished the Crisis Response Window, and $200 million supported
assistance to refugees in the Middle East and North Africa. This one-time measure
was financed by resources freed up through more efficient use of IDA’s liquidity.

IDA17 and IDA18 Replenishments
Anchored in the World Bank Group Strategy, the IDA17 policy package included a
range of policy commitments and performance indicators under IDA’s Results Measurement System. The overarching theme of ”Maximizing development impact”
focused on helping IDA countries better leverage private resources, public resources,
and knowledge, with greater emphasis on both results and cost-effectiveness. The
four IDA17 special themes—climate change, fragile and conflict-affected states,
gender equality, and inclusive growth—aimed to strengthen IDA’s engagement on
frontier issues at the global, regional, and country levels.
The transformational IDA18 Replenishment was finalized in December 2016, and
resulted in a record replenishment size of $75 billion to finance projects from July
1, 2017, to June 30, 2020. Three IDA18 special themes were retained from IDA17—
climate change; gender and development; and fragility, conflict, and violence—and

	

THE ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

73

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

FIGURE 10  IDA REPLENISHMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
26.4

26.1

23.1

21.2

22.1

14.9

14.6

3.0

5.3

3.2 4.5

IDA16 FY12–14

4.1

3.5

n.a. n.a.

n.a.
IDA17 FY15–17

Donor contributionsb
IDA internal resourcesa
Concessional partner loans
IBRD and IFC transfers
Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness

0.6

3.9

IDA18 FY18–20
Market debt

Note: n.a. = not applicable. Data reflect final agreed upon replenishment reports and exchange rates used
during the replenishment discussions.
a. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, and investment income.
b. Net of structural financing gap. Includes contributions to HIPC.

two new themes were introduced—governance and institutions, and jobs and economic transformation—which align with the overarching theme of “Toward 2030:
Investing in growth, resilience, and opportunity.”
For more information, visit ida.worldbank.org.

IBRD and IDA risk management transactions
IBRD offers financial products that allow clients to efficiently fund their development programs and manage risks related to currencies, interest rates, commodity
prices, and disasters. In fiscal 2017, the Bank’s Treasury executed USDeq 1.7 billion
in hedging transactions, including USDeq 633 million in currency conversions and
USDeq 1.1 billion in interest rate conversions, in order to assist borrowers in managing currency and interest rate risks over the life of their IBRD loans. Disaster risk
management transactions totaled $425 million in pandemic bonds and derivatives
to provide financial support to the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility. The
Bank’s Treasury executed swap transactions totaling USDeq 109 billion to manage
the risks of IBRD’s balance sheet.
IDA manages the risks on its balance sheet related to currencies and interest
rates and helps member countries manage risks related to disasters by executing
transactions with financial markets. In fiscal 2017, the Bank’s Treasury executed swap
transactions totaling USDeq 15.7 billion to manage the risks of IDA’s balance sheet
and a $34 million transaction to renew coverage of the Pacific Disaster Insurance
Program, which provides protection against earthquakes and tropical cyclones in
the Cook Islands, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Tonga, and Vanuatu.

Budgeting effectively for complex development issues
The World Bank Group aligns its resources using the “W” process for strategic planning, budgeting, and performance review. The five points of the “W” represent
specific decision points in the process:
W1: 	Senior management sets strategic planning priorities for the World Bank
Group.
W2: 	Management at the vice presidential unit (VPU) level reviews and responds to
corporate priorities.
74	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

W3: 	Senior management refines the guidance on priorities for each institution
within the World Bank Group.
W4: 	VPU-level management develops work programs and staffing plans in
response to determined priorities and planned budget envelopes.
W5: 	Senior management reviews the aggregation of the VPU-level budgets. The
Board reviews and approves the VPU budget envelope for the subsequent
fiscal year.
The “W” process is anchored in the demands and expectations of clients to
define and set institutional priorities, reinforce selectivity and efficient delivery, and
support stronger World Bank Group collaboration. Over the past several budgetplanning cycles, the World Bank Group has made significant progress in aligning
revenues and expenses, and tilting budgets in favor of institutional priorities.
At a time of economic uncertainty and global challenges, the World Bank Group
is being asked to address a growing number of complex development issues. During
the planning period for fiscal 2018–20, the Bank Group will focus on trends and priorities arising from the organization’s goals of ending extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity, the Forward Look exercise, the scaling up of operations in IDA
countries (especially fragile and conflict-affected areas), and the IDA18 policy commitments. To scale up support for better leveraging of resources through private
sector engagement, the new IDA Private Sector Window has been established to
increase private sector investment in low-capacity and fragile environments, along
with ongoing work to build a more agile, efficient, and innovative Bank Group.

Dealing with global political and economic
policy uncertainties
The World Bank Group’s Chief Risk Officer monitors the global political and economic environments that could affect the institution’s finances, and has an overview
of both financial and operational risk. In fiscal 2017, the global economy entered a
period characterized by some recovery but high uncertainty. Economic growth in
advanced economies remains weak, lower commodity prices have hurt developing economies, and high corporate leverage and related external borrowing in the
larger emerging markets constitute a further fundamental vulnerability for the World
Bank’s borrowing countries.
Policy uncertainty presents a key overarching risk, and there is a significant
chance that economic activity could diverge from the baseline that foresees a gradual strengthening of global activity. Potential protectionist pressures are a significant
risk. There remains considerable uncertainty, however, as to what extent and when
such pressures might translate into concrete measures and the forms these might
take. Countries with open economies and that are dependent on trade, including
many low-income countries, would be among the most vulnerable. Increased protectionism could also affect foreign direct investment flows to developing countries.
The policy stance of major central banks as they move at varying paces to
normalize monetary policy is another source of uncertainty. Market interest rate
expectations could adjust abruptly in response to higher inflation or fiscal policy
developments, which would affect both interest rates and risk appetite. The most
vulnerable countries are those dependent on portfolio investment to finance current account imbalances. Divergence from monetary policy expectations could also
lead to further exchange rate movements. Corporate sectors that need to service
large, unhedged foreign currency borrowing could face stress in the face of sharp
exchange rate moves. In some countries, large contingent liabilities could be a
source of risk and disruption.

	

THE ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

75

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

IBRD Fiscal Year Data: Key Financials and Lending
TABLE 19  IBRD KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2013–17
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS, WHICH ARE IN PERCENTAGES
INDICATOR	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17

Lending highlights					
Commitmentsa	
15,249	18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,611
Gross disbursementsb	
16,030	 18,761	 19,012	22,532	 17,861
Net disbursementsb	
6,552	 8,948	 9,999	13,197	 8,731
Reported basis					
Income statements					
Board of Governors–approved
  and other transfers	
(663)	
(676)	
(715)	
(705)	
(497)
Net income/(loss)	
218	
(978)	
(786)	
495	
(237)
Balance sheet					
Total assets	
325,601	358,883	343,225	 371,260	405,898
Net investment portfolio	
33,391	 42,708	 45,105	 51,760	 71,667
Net loans outstanding	
141,692	 151,978	 155,040	 167,643	 177,422
Borrowing portfolio	
134,997	 152,643	 158,853	 178,231	 207,144
Allocable income					
Allocable income	
968	769	686	593	795
Allocated as follows:	
147	 0	 36	 96	672
General Reservec	
International Development
 Associationd	
621	635	650	497	123
Surplus	
200	
134	0	0	0
Capital adequacy				
Usable equitye	
39,711	40,467	 40,195	39,424	 41,720
Equity-to-loans ratio (%)f	
26.8	25.7	 25.1	22.7	22.8
Note: For a complete presentation of the fiscal year data, see the full financial statements
available at worldbank.org/financialresults.
a. Commitments include guarantee commitments and guarantee facilities that have
been approved by the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank.
b. Amounts include transactions with the International Finance Corporation and loanorigination fees.
c.  The June 30, 2017, amount represents the proposed transfer to the General Reserve
from fiscal 2017 net income, which was approved on August 3, 2017, by the Board of
Executive Directors.
d.  On August 3, 2017, the Board of Executive Directors recommended to the Board of
Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) a transfer
of $123 million to the International Development Association.
e.  Usable equity is comprised of usable paid-in capital and elements of retained earnings
and reserves.
f. Equity-to-loans ratio compares IBRD’s usable equity against its current exposures to
evaluate its capital adequacy. The current minimum threshold is 20 percent.

TABLE 20  TOTAL IBRD LENDING, FISCAL 2013–17
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
LENDING	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17

Total commitments	
15,249	18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,611
					

76	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

TABLE 21  IBRD LENDING BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2013–17
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	
Education	
Energy and Extractives	
Financial Sector	
Health	
Industry, Trade, and Services 	
Information and Communication
  Technologies 	
Public Administration	
Social Protection 	
Transportation	
Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 Management	
Total	

886	
829	
843	
561	
754
1,100	 1,192	1,496	1,788	1,074
1,207	
2,359	
3,361	
4,599	
4,434
1,613	1,360	3,433	2,657	1,879
698	793	893	
1,181	
1,189
750	
1,106	
1,684	
3,483	
2,694
102	
262	
90	
194	
503
3,670	
4,162	
3,175	
5,111	
4,754
1,772	
1,006	
2,687	
1,393	
778
2,675	4,089	3,202	4,569	2,551
777	 1,447	 2,664	 4,192	 2,000
15,249	18,604	23,528	29,729	 22,611

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector
categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports. Please
visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.

TABLE 22  IBRD LENDING BY THEME, FISCAL 2017
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME	FY17

Economic Policy	
1,677
Environment and Natural Resources Management	
7,237
Finance	3,330
Human Development and Gender	
2,687
Private Sector Development	
5,741
Public Sector Management	
3,516
Social Development and Protection	
939
Urban and Rural Development	
5,937
Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as
part of an internal data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple theme categories, figures organized by theme
do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore should not be summed.
Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the new
methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included
here. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.

TABLE 23  TOP-10 COUNTRY BORROWERS, IBRD, FISCAL 2017
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY	

China	
India	
Indonesia	
Colombia	
Argentina	

COMMITMENT	COUNTRY	

COMMITMENT

2,420	
Egypt, Arab Rep.	
1,776	Iraq	
1,692	Turkey	
1,687	Ukraine	
1,525	Romania	

1,500
1,485
1,083
650
625

Note: Amounts for multicountry operations are allocated across borrowers.

	

IBRD KEY FINANCIAL AND LENDING DATA 	

77

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

IDA Fiscal Year Data: Key Financials and Lending
TABLE 24  IDA KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, FISCAL 2013–17
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
INDICATOR	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17

Development operations					
Commitments of loans, grants,
  and guarantees	
16,298	 22,239	 18,966	
16,171	 19,513a
Gross disbursements of loans
  and grants	
11,228	 13,432	 12,905	
13,191	 12,718a
Net disbursements of loans
  and grants	
7,371	
9,878	
8,820	
8,806	
8,154
Balance sheet					
Total assets	
165,806	 183,445	 178,685	 180,475	 197,041
Net investment	
27,487	 28,300	 28,418	 29,908	 29,673
Net loans outstanding	
121,157	 132,010	 126,760	 132,825	 138,351
Borrowings	
0	
0	 2,150	2,906	3,660
Payable for grants
 
(“Undisbursed grants”)	
6,436	6,983	6,637	6,099	6,583
Total equity	
143,462	 153,749	 147,149	 154,700	 158,476
Income statement					
Interest revenue from loans	
1,019	
1,012	
1,065	
1,149	
1,232
Revenue from investments, net	
472	
459	
419	
384	
391
Transfers from affiliated
  organizations and others	
964	
881	
993	
990	
599
Grants (“Development grant
 expenses”)	
(2,380)	 (2,645)	 (2,319)	 (1,232)	 (2,577)
Net income/(loss)	
(1,752)	 (1,612)	
(731)	
371	 (2,296)
Statement of activities					
Total sources of funds	
13,590	 12,812	 15,469	 13,834	
13,171
Total application of funds	
(11,215)	 (13,441)	 (12,941)	 (13,260)	 (12,800)
Results from operating activities	
2,296	
(741)	
2,471	
623	
154
Note: For a complete presentation of the fiscal year data, see the full financial statements
available at worldbank.org/financialresults.
a. Figures include the commitment and disbursement of a $50 million grant for the
Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.

TABLE 25  TOTAL IDA LENDING, FISCAL 2013–17
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
LENDING	

Total commitments	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17

16,298	

22,239	

18,966	

16,171	

19,513a

a. Figure includes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility.

78	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

TABLE 26  IDA LENDING BY SECTOR, FISCAL 2013–17 
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
SECTOR	

FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16	FY17a

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	
Education	
Energy and Extractives	
Financial Sector	
Health	
Industry, Trade, and Services 	
Information and Communication
  Technologies 	
Public Administration	
Social Protection 	
Transportation	
Water, Sanitation, and Waste
 
Management	
Total 	

1,358	
2,382	
2,525	
1,849	
2,025
1,788	2,426	 2,124	 1,431	 1,773
2,231	
4,438	
1,461	
2,814	
1,891
485	
669	
661	
443	
1,227
1,710	 758	 2,197	 1,191	1,246
732	
850	
687	
841	
1,541
209	
266	
265	
78	
519
2,075	
2,624	
2,744	
1,500	
1,954
1,504	
1,515	
1,928	
2,475	
1,913
2,843	 3,187	 2,191	2,277	3,271
1,363	3,125	2,183	1,271	2,102
16,298	 22,239	 18,966	 16,171	 19,463

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding. As of fiscal 2017, new sector
categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as part of an internal data modernization effort. Past fiscal year data reported here have been revised to reflect the new categories and therefore may not match figures published in previous annual reports. Please
visit projects.worldbank.org/sector for more information on changes.
a.	 Fiscal 2017 IDA sector breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.

TABLE 27  IDA LENDING BY THEME, FISCAL 2017
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME	FY17a

Economic Policy	
1,791
Environment and Natural Resources Management	
5,776
Finance	1,507
Human Development and Gender	
6,471
Private Sector Development	
4,837
Public Sector Management	
1,936
Social Development and Protection	
2,544
Urban and Rural Development	
8,352
Note: As of fiscal 2017, new theme categories have replaced the previous taxonomy as
part of an internal data modernization effort. Because lending commitments for individual operations can be applied to multiple theme categories, figures organized by theme
do not add up to fiscal year commitment totals, and therefore should not be summed.
Past fiscal year theme data have been remapped but not revised according to the new
methodology. As they are no longer directly comparable, historical data are not included
here. Please visit projects.worldbank.org/theme for more information on changes.
a.	 Fiscal 2017 IDA theme breakdown excludes a $50 million grant for the Pandemic
Emergency Financing Facility.

TABLE 28  TOP-10 COUNTRY BORROWERS, IDA, FISCAL 2017
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
COUNTRY	

Nigeria	
Vietnam	
Tanzania	
Bangladesh	
Ethiopia	

COMMITMENT	COUNTRY	

COMMITMENT

1,601	Kenya	
1,512	
Yemen, Rep.	
1,205	Pakistan	
1,152	
Côte d’Ivoire	
903	Nepal	

900
783
736
710
640

Note: Amounts for multicountry operations are allocated across borrowers.
	

IDA KEY FINANCIAL AND LENDING DATA 	

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Committed to Results
The World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by providing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private sectors. Delivering integrated solutions to help countries address their development challenges requires a
focus on results. In recent years, the Bank has made important contributions across many
areas to support development results achieved by its partner countries. The accompanying
map shows the current borrowing eligibility of member countries. For more information, visit
worldbank.org/results.

1

Afghanistan: Some 5,500 savings
groups with a membership of 60,700
rural poor (52 percent women) in 694
villages helped members to save over
$4.7 million since 2010.

9

2

Argentina: Water access was provided
for 85,700 people and sewerage to
229,000 people in the poorest areas of
the Province of Buenos Aires from 2005
to 2015. 

10 Côte d’Ivoire: Between 2012 and 2015,

3

Armenia: The tax administration is now
more efficient and collecting 20 percent
of GDP in taxes compared to 16.3
percent in 2012.

11

4

Bangladesh: A total of 3.9 million
remote households and rural shops were
provided with solar home systems from
2012 to 2016.

5

6

7

8

80	

Bosnia and Herzegovina: More than
510,000 people in flood-affected areas
benefited from crisis response support
for emergency recovery goods and
the rehabilitation of regional and local
infrastructure since 2014.

China: 470,000 households benefited
from new biodigesters together with
improved kitchens, toilets, and pig sheds
between 2008 and 2014, with benefits
for their health and quality of life.
some 27,500 people had benefited
from a job creation and skills training
program to provide better opportunities
for youths.
Democratic Republic of Congo:
Between 2008 and 2016, over 1,600
km of priority roads were rehabilitated,
helping to reconnect towns and
communities that were isolated for over
20 years.

12 Dominican Republic: The percentage

of extremely poor heads of household
lacking identity documents was reduced
from 28 percent in 2005 to 7 percent
in 2016.
13

Brazil: In Bahia, one of Brazil’s poorest
states, the number of municipalities with
referral centers to assist female victims of
abuse and violence doubled from 13 in
2011 to 27 in 2015.  

Arab Republic of Egypt: Since 2015,
over 1.5 million households have
benefited from the Takaful and Karama
cash transfer programs, with 90 percent
of the program cardholders being
women.

14

Cameroon: The rate of assisted births
increased from 43 to 63 percent at
health facilities in four regions from 2012
to 2015.

Ethiopia: Agricultural productivity
increased an average of 10 percent, and
yields for major crops increased in 45
districts from 2008 to 2013.

15

Haiti: Between 2009 and 2015, 10
emergency bridges were purchased
and installed, and another 20 weakened
bridges and road sections were repaired,
stabilizing year-round road access for
2 million people.

Central African Republic: Emergency
food crisis support provided livelihood
assistance to over 720,000 people, and
helped to increase the crop production
of 140,000 farmers between 2014 and
2016. 

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Countries with active
IBRD or IDA operations

Russian Federation

No active IBRD or IDA project,
ineligible, or no data

Russian Fed.

Poland Belarus

15

Guatemala
El Salvador

24

12

Jamaica
Belize
Honduras
Nicaragua

Costa Rica
Panama

Guyana
Colombia

Ecuador

6
Peru

11

Brazil

26

Angola

30

Bolivia

Chile

2

Uruguay

Antigua
and
Barbuda

12

Argentina

17

18

19

20

Kenya: As of 2015, 2.6 million individuals
were benefiting from cash transfer support
through the national safety net program,
up from 1.7 million in 2013.

21 Moldova: About 3,000 hectares of on-

Lao People’s Democratic Republic: Some
780,000 poor people in rural areas were
provided with access to a basic package
of health, nutrition, or reproductive health
service between 2011 and 2015.

22 Morocco: More than 13,500 kilometers

Madagascar: About 1.8 million schoolage children received deworming and
preventive treatment against neglected
tropical diseases from 2012 to 2016,
and teachers reported better school
attendance as a result.

23 Myanmar: More than 150,000 students

Mexico: Approximately 8 million Mexican
families exchanged incandescent light
bulbs for 45.8 million energy-saving
compact fluorescent lamps in 2012.
farm irrigated area were rehabilitated,
and 38,000 farmers were trained on
irrigation from 2011 to 2016.
of rural roads have been improved,
increasing rural accessibility in lagging
regions from 54 percent in 2005 to 79
percent in 2015.
benefited from a stipends program in
2016–17, up from 37,000 in 2014–15.

Kiribati
Tuvalu

Fiji
Tonga

Poland

5

Jordan: Over 7,600 jobs with micro, small,
and medium enterprises in the private
sector were created between 2012 and
2016.

Solomon
Islands
Samoa

Lesotho

Grenada

Papua
New
Guinea

Vanuatu

Mozambique

Dominica
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

16

South
Africa

Kiribati

25

19

Madagascar

Swaziland

Dominican
Republic

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

Timor-Leste

Zambia Malawi

Botswana

Paraguay

Note: Data represents the
IBRD/IDA active portfolio
as of June 30, 2017.

Croatia

Bulgaria Romania Ukraine

20
Mexico

21

Ukraine
Kazakhstan
Mongolia
Moldova
3
Romania
Georgia
Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
Bulgaria
5
Azerbaijan
Armenia
9
Tajikistan
Turkey
27
Syrian
China
Tunisia
22
Afghanistan
Lebanon A.R.
Morocco
West Bank and Gaza
Iraq
Bhutan
1 Pakistan
Jordan
Nepal
Arab
16
Rep. of
13
Egypt
Bangladesh
18
Myanmar
Cabo
Lao
India
29
4 23
Verde Mauritania
P.D.R.
Mali
Niger
Rep. of
Vietnam
Senegal
Chad
Yemen
The Gambia
Burkina
Cambodia
8
Philippines
Guinea-Bissau
Faso
7
25
14 Djibouti
Nigeria
Sri
Central South
Côte
Ethiopia
Sierra Leone
Lanka
African Sudan
d’Ivoire
Liberia
Cameroon Rep.
Ghana
Maldives
17
Uganda
28
Togo
10
Gabon
Kenya
Benin
Rwanda
Rep. of
Seychelles
Dem.
Rep.
Burundi
Congo
São Tomé and Príncipe
Indonesia
of Congo
Tanzania Comoros

Bosnia and Serbia
Herzegovina
Kosovo
Montenegro
Albania
FYR
Macedonia

24 Nicaragua: Pentavalent vaccines were

administered to 100 percent of the
children younger than 1 year in targeted
municipal health networks in 2016, up
from 88 percent in 2009.
25 Papua New Guinea: More than 15,000

young people, 40 percent of whom are
women, have participated in a shortterm jobs and skills training program
since 2011.
26 Peru: Access to justice was enhanced by

increasing the number of free legal aid
centers across the country from 25 in
2011 to 49 in 2016.
27 Tajikistan: Over 10,000 children are

studying in better classrooms, including
improved access for handicapped
children, thanks to the construction and
rehabilitation of 40 schools since 2013.

IBRD 40125R3
AUGUST 2017

28 Tanzania: Internet bandwidth coming

into the country has increased more
than 1,300 times since 2008; Internet
connections now reach 34 percent of
the population, up from less than 1
percent in 2008.
29 Vietnam: The share of 5-year-old

children who benefit from full-day
preschool has risen from 66 percent in
2011 to 84 percent in 2016.
30 Zambia: A total of 128,000 smallholder

households (48 percent headed by
women) increased their income in
agriculture by more than 300 percent
between 2006 and 2014.

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

World Bank Annual Report 2017
Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s
Discussion and Analysis and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD and IDA
(“Financial Statements”) shall be deemed to be incorporated in and to form
part of this Annual Report. The Financial Statements may be accessed at
worldbank.org/financialresults.
Additional IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is available on the World Bank Annual Report 2017 website:
worldbank.org/annualreport.

Production credits. The World Bank Annual Report 2017 was produced by the World Bank Group’s External
and Corporate Relations unit, led by Jeremy Hillman in the Corporate Communications department, with
editorial coordination by Daniel Nikolits, and key contributions from Marjorie Bennington, Denise Bergeron,
Nicole Frost, Susan Graham, Paul McClure, Christine Montgomery, Peggy Nasir, Flora Rezaei Mood, Janet
Sasser, and Maria Velez. Web design by Chuck Rose. Print design by Naylor Design, Inc. Typesetting by BMWW.
Translation by the World Bank’s Translation and Interpretation Services. Printing by Professional Graphics
Printing Co.
Photography credits. Cover: Sarah Farhat/World Bank; page 3: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; pages 8-9:
Grant Ellis/World Bank; page 13: Grant Ellis/World Bank; pages 14-15: Resolution Studios/World Bank; page 16:
Chhor Sokunthea/World Bank; page 21: Drik/World Bank; page 26: Nico Muñoz/World Bank; page 38: Diana
Styvanley/World Bank; page 42: Chris Stowers (Matahati)/World Bank; page 46: Sergei Torbik/World Bank;
page 50: Matiere/Eccomar/World Bank; page 54: Dominic Chavez/World Bank; page 58: Dominic Chavez/
World Bank.
This publication follows recommended standards for paper use set by the Green Press Initiative. The paper
contains post-consumer fiber, is certified FSC® and EcoLogo, and is manufactured using renewable biogas
energy and elemental chlorine-free processing.
© 2017 International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000
Internet: www.worldbank.org

Attribution—Please cite the work as follows:
World Bank. 2017. World Bank Annual Report 2017.
Washington, DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/9781-4648-1119-7. License: Creative Commons
Attribution–NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0
IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).

Some rights reserved
1 2 3 4 20 19 18 17

Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
commercial purposes.

This work is a product of the staff of The World
Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations, and
other information shown on any map in this work
do not imply any judgment on the part of The World
Bank concerning the legal status of any territory or
the endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are
specifically reserved.

No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform,
or build upon this work.

Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the
Creative Commons Attribution–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives 3.0
IGO license (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/igo.
Under the Creative Commons–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives license, you are free to copy, distribute,
and transmit this work, for noncommercial purposes
only, under the following conditions:

Third-party content—The World Bank does not
necessarily own each component of the content
contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
does not warrant that the use of any third-partyowned individual component or part contained
in the work will not infringe on the rights of those
third parties. The risk of claims resulting from such
infringement rests solely with you. If you wish to reuse a component of the work, it is your responsibility
to determine whether permission is needed for that
re-use and to obtain permission from the copyright
owner. Examples of components can include, but are
not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
All queries on rights and licenses should be
addressed to World Bank Publications, The World
Bank Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
20433, USA; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
ISBN: 978-1-4648-1119-7
eISBN: 978-1-4648-1121-0
doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-1119-7

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

In recent years, World Bank operations
have supported clients to
Accelerate inclusive and sustainable economic growth
11 million people, and micro-, small, and medium enterprises with
financial services reached
3 million hectares of land provided with irrigation services
90,500 kilometers of roads constructed or rehabilitated
5,000 megawatts generation capacity of conventional energy and
2,400 megawatts generation capacity of renewable energy
constructed or rehabilitated

Invest in people to build human capital for greater
productivity
9 million teachers recruited or trained
310 million people provided with essential health, nutrition,
and population services
49 million people provided with access to an improved water
source
17 million people provided with access to improved sanitation
facilities

Foster resilience to global shocks and threats
39 million beneficiaries covered by social safety net programs
44 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions reduced annually
with the support of special climate instruments
35 countries supported in institutionalizing disaster risk reduction
as a national priority

The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA).
The organization’s mission is to end extreme poverty and boost shared
prosperity in a sustainable way. With a unique global reach and a
commitment to work with partners over the long-term, the World Bank
provides financing, technical knowledge, and convening services to help
its clients achieve their development priorities. The selected global results
represented above were reported by World Bank clients with the support
of Bank-financed operations between 2014 and 2016.

worldbank.org/annualreport

SKU 211119

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

