ANNUAL REPORT
2020 - 2021

GIDM Campus, Gandhinagar
Gujarat, India

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

2020 - 2021

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

CONTENTS
1. Background……………………………………………………………………………1
2. Scope of Work……………………………………………………………………….1
3. Vision…………………………………………………………………………………….2
4. Mission………………………………………………………………………………….2
5. Functions of SDMC (IU)………………………………………………………….2
6. Activities in the Financial Year 2020-2021………………………………4
7. Financial Status……………………………………………………………………..9
8. Annexures……………………………………………………………………………..10
Annexure 1- Enhancing Preparedness for Responding to
COVID-19 and Extreme Weather Events……………………………….11
Annexure 2- Multi Sectoral Recovery Approaches to Post
COVID19 and the ‘New Normal’……………………………………………26
Annexure 3- Enhancing Preparedness for Climate Related
Disasters Using Space-Based Technologies..............................38

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

1. Background
The SAARC region, by virtue of its unique geographical setting, climate and socioeconomic
vulnerabilities, is amongst the world’s multi-hazard hotspots. The region bears the brunt of largescale catastrophic disasters. Major population centers such as Kathmandu, Karachi, Kabul, New
Delhi, Dhaka lie on key seismic fault lines or along coastal areas constantly buffeted by cyclones,
floods, and storm surges. The latter extreme weather events increase in number and intensity due
to the effects of climate change. Unplanned human settlements, unsafe building practices, and high
population densities have further compounded the exposure and vulnerability of people and
economies. As a result, earthquakes, cyclones, floods, tsunamis, droughts, and other hazards of
every type and magnitude continue to consume lives, property, and livelihoods across the region.
SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC-IU) has been set up at Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Management (GIDM) Campus, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India in November 2016, with a vision to
be a Centre of Excellence to provide policy advice, technical support on system development,
capacity building services and training for holistic management of disaster risk in the SAARC
region. The centre facilitates exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient
management of disaster risk. Eight Member States, i.e. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are served by the SDMC (IU).

2. Scope of Work
SDMC(IU) is working to give a fillip to regional cooperation for holistic management of disaster
risk in the SAARC region. It serves the Member States by providing policy advice, technical
support on system development, capacity building services and training. The Centre facilitates
exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient management of disaster risk. As
needed, the Centre undertakes projects and programmes to serve the needs of the Member States.
It seeks to expand from a 'knowledge sharing' organisation to an ‘action-response' organisation
and develop Standard Operating Procedures, tools, guidelines and methodologies for different
types and phases of disasters.

1

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

It is vital for SDMC (IU) to frame cooperation as technical responsibility for regional Disaster
Management and Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) making material contribution to the lives of
vulnerable population and those exposed by the natural disasters. The centre is entrusted with the
responsibility to support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science
& Technology, knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity
development, collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals
and other relevant frameworks adopted by Member States.
In addition, the SDMC (IU) has been re-established with an expanded role by merging four
erstwhile SAARC Centres namely (1) SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC– New Delhi,
India); (2) SAARC Meteorological Research Centre (SMRC - Dhaka, Bangladesh); (3) SAARC
Forestry Centre (SFC - Thimphu, Bhutan); (4) SAARC Coastal Zone Management Centre
(SCZMC - Male, Maldives). Disaster Risk Reduction relevant functions of these centres are also
a part of the scope of work.

3. Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence for regional cooperation and specialised service delivery to Member
States for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), Response, Recovery and Sustainable Development.

4. Mission
To support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science & Technology,
knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity development,
collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals and other relevant
frameworks adopted by Member States.

5. Functions of SDMC (IU)
1.

Provide assistance in formulation of Policies, Strategies and Sustainable Development
Frameworks in relation to disaster Management and Disaster Risk Reduction

2.

Undertake/ promote research for better understanding of the various meteorological
phenomena of particular interest to the SAARC Region, with a view to enhance the
capability of National Meteorological Services (NMSs) of the Member States, particularly

2

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

in the field of early warning to provide support for preparedness and management of natural
hazards involving relevant knowledge and operational institutions in India.
3.

Collect, compile, document and disseminate data, information, case studies, indigenous
knowledge and good practices relating to disaster risk reduction, and sustainable
development.

4.

Compile and collate information for the region required for weather forecasting and
monitoring special weather phenomena.

5.

Strengthen regional response mechanisms to reduce loss of lives, injuries and to provide
timely humanitarian assistance to people affected by disasters.

6.

To identify organisations in the region dealing with relevant key focus areas, facilitate
interaction, promote coordination and cooperation amongst institutions (ministries,
authorities,

inter-governmental

organisations,

international

organisations,

non-

governmental organisations, funding agencies, etc.) and other stakeholders involved
through networking for the exchange of experiences, information, data, expertise,
knowledge and technology transfer in the key focus areas of SDMC.
7.

Organise training workshops, conferences, seminars, lectures for various stakeholders on
key priority/focus areas of the Member States and on various aspects of disaster
management.

8.

Develop educational materials and conduct academic and professional courses on key
priority/focus areas.

9.

Develop training modules on various aspects of key priority/focus areas and conduct
programmes for Training of Trainers including simulation exercises.

10.

Coordinate SAADMEx with the Member States.

11.

Analyse information, undertake research and disseminate research findings on key
priority/focus areas among the Member States.

12.

Undertake preparation of databases, publication of journals, research papers and books,
and establish and maintain online resource centre in furtherance of the aforesaid objectives.

13.

Collaborate with other global, regional and national centres of excellence to achieve
synergies in programmes and activities.

14.

Conduct studies on assessment and management of disaster risks posing a threat to
inclusive and sustainable development in South Asia.

3

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

15.

Undertake

research,

projects,

programmes

contributing

towards

mitigating the impact of trans-boundary disasters.
16.

Facilitate from within and outside the region supply of emergency needs in times of
disaster, in line with SAARC disaster response mechanisms.

17.

Facilitate exchange of experiences and technical support among Member States on
National Action Plans for Disaster Risk Reduction.

6. Activities in the Financial Year 2020-2021
6.1

Preparation of Activity Plan

SDMC (IU) had prepared its annual Activity Plan for FY 2020-2021 based on the discussion in
fourth Inter-Ministerial Meeting and shared with MEA, GoI which has been approved by MEA on
July 31, 2020.
6.2

Capacity Building Programs organized

Sr.
No.

Name of Webinar

No of
Presence of the
Participants Member States

Program
Details

Date

1.

Enhancing Preparedness for
Responding to COVID19 and
Extreme Weather Events

91

All

04th Nov,
2020

Annexure 1

2.

Multi Sectoral Recovery
Approaches to Post COVID19
and the ‘New Normal’

42

All

15th Dec,
2020

Annexure 2

3.

Enhancing Preparedness for
Climate Related Disasters Using

63

All

17th Feb,
2021

Annexure 3

Space-Based Technologies
Participants
•196 Participants have been oriented in three Capacity Building Programs in
webinar mode
Experts
•15 Experts (6 from India, 3 from SAARC Member States and 6 others) have
shared their experiences during these capacity development programs

4

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Training Program-wise Number of Participants

No. of Participants
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

Enhancing Preparedness Multi Sectoral Recovery Enhancing Preparedness
for Responding to
for Climate Related
Approaches to Post
COVID19 and Extreme COVID19 and the ‘New Disasters Using SpaceWeather Events
Normal’
Based Technologies
Male

Female

Resource Persons/ Experts Invited to deliver the talk

No. of Experts/ Speakers

6

6

3
Experts from India

Experts from SAARC Countries

5

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

6.3

Other Programs

Sr. No.

Activity

Action Taken
o SDMC
(IU) set up a dedicated web-portal
(http://www.covid19-sdmc.org) on COVID-19 for shared
use of SAARC countries. The portal was created with an aim
to provide a platform, wherein through active participation,
all member countries can disseminate reliable information
and updates on the evolving situation relating to COVID-19
in the region, and best practices being followed in member
countries. Since the creation of the website, situation report
of the region is regularly updated on the portal using data
from authentic sources like government/ Ministry websites
of member countries and WHO.

1

Dedicated webportal on COVID19 for SAARC
Region

2

Programme on
Development of
Regional Response
Mechanism (RRM) in
the SAARC Region

o The Task Force for Development of Draft Regional

3

Celebration of
SAARC Charter Day

o Could not celebrate due to COVID-19 pandemic.

4

Publications

o SDMC (IU) in collaboration with UNDP is developing a

Response Mechanism in SAARC Region was constituted.
o Existing Regional Response Mechanism across the world
and Response Mechanism in each of the SAARC Member
States are being studied.

Knowledge Product on “What does it mean to Build Back
Better in COVID-19 Recovery” for the benefit of the
SAARC Member States
o SDMC (IU) in collaboration with IWMI & UNSPIDER is

developing a Repository of Open Source Data Products
related to Earth Observation and Geo-spatial technologies
for DRM
o SDMC(IU) Annual Newsletter published on web portal
o Annual Report of SDMC (IU) developed.

6

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

5

Web Portal

o SDMC (IU) updates its portal with all the necessary

information/ data on regular basis.
o Country Page for each country has been developed. User

Manual for the same has been prepared and shared for
updation of the country page.

6.4

Activities of SDMC (IU) on COVID-19

At the initiative of the Prime Minister of India, a Video Conference of SAARC Leaders on
combating COVID-19 was held on 15 March 2020. The meeting enabled Leaders to share
assessments of the situation relating to the pandemic, consider best practices, and identify
cooperative measures and approaches for each country to minimize and mitigate the spread of the
disease while averting public panic and minimising possible economic impacts.

Video Conference of SAARC Leaders held on 15 March 2020

7

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

As an action point emerging from the above conference, SAARC Disaster Management Centre
(IU) has developed a web portal (http://www.covid19-sdmc.org/) on 20 March 2020 and made
online on 21 March 2020. The aim of the portal is to disseminate reliable information and updates
on the evolving situation relating to COVID-19 in the region, and serve as repository of best
practices being followed by the member states in dealing with COVID-19 for the SAARC Region.
The daily situation report of the region is updated on the portal using data from authentic sources
like Ministry’s website of member states and WHO. Portal comprises regional situation report,
individual country situation reports, guidelines and best practices, made available by the member
states. It keeps a track of social media updates on COVID-19, relevant to the region. The portal
provides useful and knowledgeable video links, providing awareness on the subject. The portal
puts in place all the important links for the region which can be accessed for in-depth information.

A snapshot of the portal (covid19-sdmc.org)

8

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

7. Financial Status (Amount in INR)
In the financial year 2020-2021, SDMC(IU) did not received any fund. However, total expenditure
incurred from the previous available fund was Rs. 42,86,994/- (Forty Two Lakh Eighty Six
Thousand Nine Hundred Ninty Four)

9

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

ANNEXURES

10

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Annexure 1
Webinar Report on
Enhancing Preparedness for Responding to COVID19 and Extreme Weather
Events

Program Note
Background
SAARC region comprises nearly 23% of the world's population and is one of the most disaster-prone
regions in the world. Given the geographical location of the region and the cascading impacts of
climate change, the extreme weather events are increasing in intensity and frequency. These events
include cyclones, excessive rainfall, heatwaves, drought conditions, locust attack, etc.
Climate change and the complexities associated with disasters are creating deep uncertainties.
Enhanced technology and greater data availability allow many hazards to be predicted with greater
accuracy, however, climate change results into deviation and amplification of disaster impacts. It is
therefore increasingly difficult to determine risk of the given area and prepare accordingly1.
As per the Global Climate Risk Index 2020, some of the SAARC Countries are ranked in top 20 most
vulnerable countries to the fatal impacts of climate risks2. Owing the population density other SAARC
countries are also highly vulnerable. In 2019, floods and storms events accounted for 68% of the total
number of affected people globally. The total number of disaster events occurred in recent years have
almost doubled as compared to total number of disaster events in last decade. The South Asian region
has recently experienced the brunt of extreme weather events. Cyclones have developed both in the
Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, there have been extreme heat events leading to extreme water
stress conditions, attack of the locust swarms destroying food and agriculture, and heavy flooding.
Most of these events happened amidst the COVID19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic already
brought in new challenges for the humanity. In such situation the compounding impact of two or
more simultaneous events has been experienced.
With the advent of science and technology South Asian Countries have shown enhancement in
preparedness to deal with events like cyclones. They have significantly reduced loss of life from
hydro-meteorological events in recent years because of effective early warning systems combined
with timely evacuations in the face of extreme weather events. National Disaster Management
Organizations (NDMOs), humanitarian agencies and iNGOs already engaged in the COVID-19
response are now blending those efforts with response to heavy rainfall due to monsoon and cyclone
seasons which usually impact millions of people across Asia.3
Summary of the Asia-Pacific Disaster Report 2019
Global Climate Risk Index 2020
3
https://reliefweb.int/report/india/extreme-weather-events-time-covid-19
1
2

11

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Community-based actions are becoming more vital as emergencies increase in number and
frequency, due to changing hazards (e.g. seasonal probable hazards during ongoing COVID 19
pandemic) and growing vulnerabilities (e.g. reduced economic activities, food logistics systems, etc.).
This has put more communities at risk, and has challenged the response capacity at national and local
levels. Thus, it is essential that greater localization of risk information, preparedness and response
efforts, underscored by local partnerships needs to be up scaled considering their crucial role in DRR.
This also focuses on the Target E of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction which states
to substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies by 2020. With this it also touches upon other targets like reduction of mortality, affected
people, and economic loss.
Community-based actions have demonstrated its significance in reducing disaster impacts against
hazards by:
•
Enhancing knowledge of the local risk and new emerging risk ensuring that the actual
capacities of the communities are developed and utilized;
•
Preventing and mitigating risk at local level by avoiding exposure to hazards;
•
Preparing and organizing communities to respond in planned and structured manner, taking
care of their vulnerabilities;
•
Ensuring comprehensive actions in the initial hours after an emergency, thus saving many
lives.
Therefore, there is a need to encourage governments and all – of- the – institutions working in DRR
to reinforce the community by facilitating preparation of local level action plans, strengthening
existing systems, and providing resources to support local actions towards reducing disaster risks
and manage residual risk.

Aim
The webinar will aim to highlight lessons learned from the past flood events, challenges faced during
recent cyclone response due to COVID19 and deliberate on methods through which Member States
can enhance community preparedness through local level action plans for climate related hazards &
risk management to build more resilient systems that are better placed to prevent such crises in the
future.

Target Audience
This webinar aims to engage Senior Officers from Ministries from Member States dealing with
Disaster Risk Management, Disaster Response; National Disaster Management Organizations
(NDMOs); Ministries working with Community Preparedness towards Public health in emergencies
and other concerned ministries.

12

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Agenda
#

Topic

Time (IST)

Resource Person/ Moderator

1.

Inauguration of the Webinar
Welcome & Introduction of the
Director - SDMC (IU)
Introductory Address
Introductory remarks from the
representative of each of the Member
States

13.30 – 13.50
1 min.

Introduction of the Speaker
Climate Change & Extreme
Weather Events in the SAARC
Region + Q & A
Introduction of the Speaker
Emerging Risks of Locust attack in
the SAARC Region: Genesis,
Warning and Response + Q & A
Introduction of the Speaker
Lesson Learnt from the Cyclone
Amphan: Local Level response and
challenges caused by COVID-19
situation + Q & A
- India Experience
- Bangladesh Experience

13.50 – 14.10
20 min.

SDMC (IU)
Mr. Sumedh Patil
PM/RO – SDMC (IU)
Director, SDMC (IU)
Representatives from all SAARC
Member StatesAfghanistan: Mr. Mohammad Omer
Mohammadi
Bangladesh: Ms. Kazi Tasmin Ara
Ajmery
Bhutan: Mr. Tshewang Norbu
India: Dr. Pawan Kumar Singh
Maldives: Mr. Umar Fikry
Nepal: Mr. Kali Prasad Parajuli
Pakistan: Mr. Tahir ud Din
Sri Lanka: Maj. Gen. Sudantha
Ranasinghe
Moderator – Director, SDMC (IU)
Moderator- SDMC (IU)
Dr. Roxy Mathew
CCCR, IITM, India

Introduction of the Speaker
Strategy for development of Local
Level Action Plan for enhancing
preparedness towards Extreme

14.50 – 15.05
15 min.

i
ii

3 Min
16 min.
(2 min. each)

iii

2.

3.

4.

5.

14.10 – 14.30
20 min.

14.30 – 14.50
(10 min. each)
20 min.

Moderator- SDMC (IU)
Mr. Keith Cressman
Senior Locust Forecasting Officer, FAO,
Rome
Moderator- SDMC (IU)
Mr. Randeep Ku. Rana
DIG Operations -NDRF, India
Mr. Syed Ashraf ul Islam
Communication and Media Specialist,
Department of Disaster Management,
Bangladesh
Moderator- SDMC (IU)
Mr. Aslam Perwaiz
Department Head, ADPC, Thailand

13

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

6.

7.

Weather events compound with
COVID19 situation + Q & A
Experience sharing from Member
States towards recent compound
disaster events in SAARC Region +
Q&A

Concluding Remarks

15.05 – 16.05
(7 min. each)
60 min.

16.05 – 16.10
05 min.

Representatives from all the SAARC
Member StatesAfghanistan: Mr. Sayed Abdul Baset
Rahmani
Bangladesh: Mr. Probir Kumar Das
Bhutan: Mr. Sangay Tenzin & Mr. Ugyen
Tshering
India: Dr. Pawan Kumar Singh
Maldives: Mr. Umar Fikry
Nepal: Mr. Sameer Kumar Adhikari
Pakistan: Mr. Tahir ud Din
Sri Lanka: Dr. Novil Wijesekera
Moderator - Director, SDMC (IU)
Director, SDMC (IU)

14

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Regional Webinar on
Enhancing Preparedness for Responding to COVID19 and Extreme
Weather Events
Introductory Session
On behalf of the SAARC Disaster Management
Centre, Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed all the
participants from respective SAARC Member
States for the first webinar conducted by
SDMC(IU).

The keynote address was given by Mr. P.K.
Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU). He welcomed and
introduced all the dignitaries and resource
persons. Representatives from each Member
States gave introductory remarks.

Session 1: Climate Change & Extreme
Weather Events in the SAARC Region
Dr. Roxy Mathew Koll, Indian Institute of
Tropical Meteorology, India

Dr. Roxy talked about the plethora of extreme
weather events that occur in the Indian Ocean
region. These events include cyclones,
excessive rainfall, heatwaves, drought

conditions, locust attack, etc. Major change in
the Indian ocean is the sea level rise and most
of the heavily populated coastal cities in the
SAARC region are located at the rim of Indian
ocean. As per the analysis done, sea level rise
is happening at 3-6 cm per decade. There are
visible impacts of sea level rise in the Indian
Ocean like the Vaan Island in Gulf of Mannar.
The impacts of climate change have been on
the biodiversity as well, Bramble Cay Melomy
is the first species to be extinct due to
anthropogenic climate change. Dr. Roxy also
discussed about the mitigation measures like
the Seagrass and Coral restoration. He also
explained movement of Locust swarms that
started in East Africa following heavy rains of
2018-2019 activated due to warming in
Western Indian Ocean. Cyclone characteristics
are also changing and they are becoming more
intense in short time. Eg. Cyclone Amphan
intensified from Cat1 to Cat 5 cyclone in 18
hours. Predicting the rapid intensification of
cyclones is a difficult task for weather models.
The warming of ocean that leads to formation
of cyclones also results in marine heat waves.
The same ocean temperatures that intensified
cyclone Amphan, led to coral bleaching in Gulf
of Mannar also. On the land, total monsoon
rainfall is decreasing, number of extreme rains
(above 150 mm/day) are increasing. All these
events act together leading to compound
evets. Dr. Roxy mentioned about the first
assessment report on Climate Change over the
Indian region; Indian Ocean Review; The IPCC
Special Report on Ocean and Cryosphere in a
Changing
Climate;
Economic
Impact
Assessment in Monsoon Mission; and their
salient outcomes. He also discussed about the
Flood Warning Systems at Local level

15

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

(iFLOWS- MUMBAI) and at SAARC level (South
Asia Flash Flood Guidance System).

Session 2: Emerging Risks of Locust
attack in the SAARC Region: Genesis,
Warning and Response
Mr. Keith Cressman, Food and Agriculture
Organization, Rome

Mr. Keith talked about the characteristics of
desert locust and factors to mitigate the locust
plague. Desert locust basically live in desert
and can cover upto 20% of the earth’s land
surface. They basically live in the area
between Senegal to India and South Europe to
Tanzania. They grow in number exponentially
which is in response to the climate. The change
in climate impacts their number as they need
rain to reproduce and green vegetation for
food and shelter. In SAARC region, they are
mainly found in India and Pakistan. Rarely
they can reach to countries like Nepal and
Afghanistan. In general, they are in desert, in
low numbers, not posing a threat. But more
rainfall events, means a greater number of
locusts. When they form a swarm, they can
travel upto a distance of 150 km per day. In
last two years there have been dramatic
increase of desert locust numbers in the South
West Asia. They have huge impact on food
security and livelihood not just on farmers
community but on countries and regions. Mr.
Keith highlighted the reasons behind more
desert locusts which are increasing
temperatures, unusual rainfall events, and

changing wind patterns which lead to more
rapid maturation, more frequent outbreaks,
and new invasion areas, respectively.
Subsequently he discussed upon methods to
deal with swarms of locust like aerial control
operations which includes spraying of
pesticides and biopesticides from the aircraft.
This can be supplemented with ground control
operations also. Such operations also have
high cost implications. He discussed about the
desert locust early warning system which is
nearly 100 years old and very rich in
experience and data. All the affected countries
share data directly with FAO through desert
locust early warning network. The strategy is
very similar to forest fire prevention.
Detection in early stage is very essential.
There are tools to collect information from the
field or using remote sensing/satellite
imagery or instruments like drone. The data is
shared through cloud in realtime which is used
by concerned departments of the countries.
There is a specific Commission of FAO for the
South Asian region (covering India, Pakistan
and Afghanistan of the SAARC) – Commission
for Controlling the Desert Locust in SouthWest Asia. It helps strengthen the capacities of
the countries to manage desert locust.

Session 3: Lesson Learnt from the
Cyclone Amphan: Local Level response
and challenges caused by COVID-19
situation
India Experience
Mr. Randeep Ku. Rana, National Disaster
Response Force, India

16

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Mr. Randeep described the strongest cyclone
‘Amphan’ to strike the Indian coast since the
1999 Odisha Super cyclone and the process
that Disaster Response Force followed prior
and post landfall. 38 & 20 teams of NDRF were
deployed in the States of West Bengal and
Odisha, evacuating 8,13,092 and 2,37,296
respectively. In view of the COVID-19 scenario,
all teams were reoriented for facing dual
challenge and equipped with PPE etc. to carry
out community awareness campaigns and
restoration work in both the States. Mr. Rana
explained
the
ABCD
analysis
and
preparedness by NDRF which basically
includes protection gears for COVID19. Tailormade training on COVID-19 was given to
response personnel. The challenges to deal
with Complex emergency situation were
many, responders and stakeholders were also
infected by COVID19 during operations
(including 74 NDRF personnel), lack of COVID19 safe accommodation was also a challenge
and many buildings were converted to
evacuation shelter keeping in view the COVID
advisories
about
physical
distancing.
Community involvement, coordination- both
at macro and micro level, homogeneity
between central, state and local agencies, and
India's preparedness and EWS contained the
loss of lives to just double digits.

Mr. Syed talked about the double burden
issues – the sufferings, losses and
displacement due to COVID19 faced with flood
and cyclone. 2.6 Million were provided shelter
in 13,153 shelters during cyclone. Fortunately,
the containment zones were not affected by
Cyclone Amphan and subsequently floods did
not occur at extreme hot spots. Government of
Bangladesh took extensive relief and incentive
support program through the Ministry of
Disaster Management and Relief. Many
MoDMR field officials were also affected by
COVID-19. Mr. Syed highlighted the drivers of
Disaster Management Response to COVID2019 viz PM’s 31-point directive in wake of the
novel coronavirus situation which focussed on
most disadvantaged people, senior citizens
and children, etc. DDM prepared contingency
plan and COVID protocols. All cyclone, flood
and temporary shelters maintained a supply of
sanitizers, masks, and other basic protective
material for stranded people along with food,
fodder for livestock etc. He also highlighted
the fact that it had not been practical to apply
COVID19
precautions
during
the
humanitarian phase of Amphan and during
sessions of flood, since saving of lives was
precedence over the risk of contracting the
disease but after disaster, social distancing
was not ignored when relief was distributed.

Bangladesh Experience
Mr. Syed Ashraful Islam, Department of
Disaster Management, Bangladesh

17

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Session 4: Strategy for development of
Local Level Action Plan for enhancing
preparedness
towards
Extreme
Weather events compound with
COVID19 situation
Mr. Aslam Perwaiz

Mr. Aslam interestingly highlighted the shift
from global to local level since 2015 through
implementation of international frameworks
and defined local level anything which is
below National level. He showed the analysis
of Target E of the Sendai Framework and
reflected upon local DRR & resilience
strategies and action plans. Reflections were
upon: Identifying key priorities based on risk
&
resilience
assessments,
including
governance diagnosis and financial aspects;
Fostering an enabling environment for local
actions through awareness, advocacy,
bridging governance gap, capacity and
monitoring; Overcoming challenges and
moving ahead because disaster that will
happen is not the one we prepared for; the cost
of doing nothing could be very high. He
focussed on all- hazards approach to achieve
risk reduction as a basis for sustainable
development. COVID-19 pandemic is a timely
reminder of how hazards within the complex
and changing global risk landscape can affect
lives, livelihoods and health.

Session 5: Experience sharing from
Member
States
towards
recent
compound disaster events in SAARC
Region
Afghanistan
The Member State representative listed the
extreme weather events that impacted the
country this year, which were heavy snowfall,
avalanches, landslides and flash floods. Some
144,039 people were affected and the harsh
weather conditions resulted in interruption of
the delivery of humanitarian assistance.
COVID 19 crisis forced to revise the existing
Country Humanitarian Plan. Ministry of Public
Health established the Centre for Command
and Control. To address socio-economic
impact of COVID-19, government provided
short term assistance to the affected
population across the country, in the
meantime coordinated with the humanitarian
actors on expansion of responses. The lessons
learnt were: Weather events are localized and
leave very less time for respond, therefore
preparedness action needs to by localized;
Disaster Risk Assessment should encompass
the greater component for climate risk
assessment; Integrated Early Warning System
with reaching to very remote areas with
Maximum lead time; Strengthen coordination
between all key stakeholders and create
multiple Working Group to feed in to the
policy process.

Bangladesh
The major disasters of 2020 were Cyclone
Amphan, flood, and lightning that claimed a
total of about 300 deaths. The representative
of the Member State presented on the
statistics of Cyclone Amphan and the
initiatives taken by Govt. of Bangladesh. Early
Warning Dissemination was done through IVR

18

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

(Interactive Voice Response - a technology
that automates interactions with telephone
callers) where in 5 million people called in
during 19-20 May 2020. Joint Need
Assessment was conducted after the Cyclone
Amphan which highlighted destroyed
infrastructures, inundation of agri-land by
tidal surge and salinity intrusion, loss of
livelihood, physical distancing in emergency
shelters was challenge. As a way forward,
Bangladesh representative mentioned about
re-establishment of South Asian Disaster
Knowledge Network Portal (SADKN),
development of digital vulnerability atlas for
each member state under unique frame work,
improve best practices and lessons learnt
from DRR efforts at national levels, develop
and implement regional programes and
projects for Multi-Hazard Early Warning,
establish a regional sharing platform for using
space based technology in disaster
management.

Bhutan
Bhutan, with zero COVID mortality till date,
highlighted the timeline of COVID19
interventions. The representative from the
Member State discussed the Community
Transmission Mitigation Strategy which
included
intensive
testing,
enhanced
surveillance, enhanced surge capacity, and
behavioral change. Leadership of the Bhutan
government and national COVID19 Incident
Command Structure played a major role in
management of the disease. The road ahead
focuses on health, social, and economic
security.

India
Representative from the Member State talked
about the situation of the pandemic in the
country. Ministry of Health and Family

Welfare is the nodal agency for managing
biological disasters. Soon after the outbreak,
COVID19 containment plan was released by
the Ministry. Template for state and district
level planning were formulated by NDMA. As
pre-emptive measure GoI took several steps in
sensitizing States, UTs, and other stakeholders
to plan for concurrent disasters during
ongoing pandemic. This included preparatory
and mitigation measures on heatwave,
planning for floods, disasters particularly
impacting urban areas like earthquake and
urban floods, etc. Advisories were released
before the onset of cyclone season, in view of
the pandemic situation, which included
maintenance of physical distancing and using
face mask during mass evacuation, capacity of
evacuation shelters shall be reworked, PPEs
for first responders. Member State
representative discussed about various
hazard related plans for preparedness and
response at national level. Strengthening
regional cooperation is the major way ahead
as the region faces similar type of hazards.

Maldives
Maldives has a low impact, high frequency
hazard profile. These include cyclonic rainfall,
storm surges, swell waves, wind storm,
flooding, tsunami is also a threat. Such events
also cause severe coastal erosion in the
islands. Maldives needs to reiterate the future
outlook due to climate change. There have
been stress of coral bleaching and heatwave
events due to rising sea temperature.
Representative from the Member State mainly
highlighted the impacts of climate change that
an island nation would bear in future if
measures to mitigate the impacts are not
taken.

Nepal

19

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Representative from the Member State
explained the organizational structure for
command and response for COVID 19 and the
activities undertaken. The monsoon event that
started in June was heavier than usual,
destructed many infrastructures and many
casualties were reported. There were warning
on chances of glacial lake bursting due to
heavy precipitation. Rare event of locust
attack also happened, more than 8 million
locusts entered Nepal and resulted in crop
damage of 1,118 hectares of land. Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock Development
implemented strategies to minimize the
damage - Early warning with locust trajectory
prediction, Developing and disseminating
Locust
Advisory,
Developing
and
disseminating User’s guide for reporting the
locust. Key learnings highlighted were multi
sectoral coordination and collaboration in
every disaster, health systems strengthening
required
against
infectious
diseases
outbreak/pandemic, necessity of integrated
and
tailored
approach,
technological
advancement and usage, early and honest risk
communication and community engagement.

Pakistan
The representative from the Member State
talked about compound disasters in the
country which include COVID, locust and
floods. He mentioned three tiers of disaster
management organizations in the country.
Like any other SAARC country, Pakistan faces
similar natural and man-made hazards but in
the pandemic situation, the strategy was
required to be updated as per the
requirement. The response was planned
keeping health department as the main
stakeholder in the situation. Working of
National Command and Control Centre and
National Command and Operation Centre (to
deal with ground issues) was discussed.

People were aware of the historical hazards
like earthquake and floods that have been
impacting the country but exposure to
pandemic was new which lead to revision of
the strategies and action plans. Representative
highlighted the logistics and supply challenges
faced, socio-economic impacts and measures
taken to manage the same.

Sri Lanka
The emergencies that occurred in Sri Lanka
during COVID19 were floods, landslides, and
drought. Both urban and rural areas were
affected and large number of deaths
associated with landslides. Effective response
in this situation was promoted due to Disaster
Management
Institutional
Framework,
Standard Operating Procedures, Emergency
Operation Centers, resilient health system and
support of the defense sector – tri-forces,
police and state intelligence service. The way
forward as highlighted by the representative
of the Member State - All hazard approach
must be continued for the investments to be
cost Effective; Health – Disaster Management
– Defense Sector coordination is critical for
effective preparedness and response; Capacity
building is the key for effective preparedness
for future extreme events.

Concluding Remarks
Concluding remarks and vote of thanks was
given by Director SDMC(IU).

20

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

List of Participant

21

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

22

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

23

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

24

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

25

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Annexure 2
Webinar Report on
Multi Sectoral Recovery Approaches to Post COVID19 and the ‘New Normal’
Program Note
Context
The SAARC region is frequently affected by natural hazards including floods, cyclones, earthquakes,
landslides and droughts affecting millions of people every year. According to UNDDR, in 2015, 54%
of the total disaster related deaths occurred in SAARC Member States. The new coronavirus that
emerged in 2019, has added to the historical risks that prevail in the SAARC Region, one of the most
disaster-prone in the world.
The pandemic is still evolving worldwide, and statistics of COVID-19 infected people and casualties
are changing rapidly overtime. As of 10th December 2020, 68,165,877 people have been affected by
COVID-19 worldwide. The SAARC region comprises over 23% of the world’s population which
remains vulnerable towards COVID-19. The SAARC Member States have reported about 11 million
cases and a total of 161 thousand deaths in the region. COVID-19 primarily being a health crisis
exposed the gaps in public health infrastructure and in basic facilities like sanitation facilities and
access to broadband connectivity that sought highest importance during the pandemic.
While COVID-19 is first a health risk, governments measures such as lockdowns, social distancing
and travel bans had cascading effects across economic and social dimensions, increasing inequalities
and impacting on a range of human rights. Government policies to contain the spread of the virus,
such as lockdowns and travel bans, had knock-on effects on economies as reduction in global supply
and demand, increased oil prices, disruptions in the supply chains and reduced regional and global
transport connectivity caused a global economic recession. In turn, disruptions in the supply chain
led to huge economic losses in the commerce, business and enterprise sectors, resulting in increased
unemployment, affecting particularly informal sector workers. Collapse of international trade has
adversely affected South Asian countries as export orders have been cancelled or suspended for key
labor-intensive products such as garments, leather footwear, handicrafts, and shrimp from South
Asian countries causing widespread revenue and job losses. Tourism, an important sector in all South
Asian economies, particularly for Maldives, has been severely hit destroying the livelihoods of
millions dependent on it and related activities. Foreign exchange remittances, which account for over
30% share of GDP of Nepal and have significant shares in Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka could
decline by 22% on an average.4 A World Bank report, has tried to quantify the impact of school
closures in monetary terms. The report says that up to 391 million children have been kept out of
schools across the South Asian region leading to a severe learning crisis. Further, it says that 5.5
million children may end up dropping out of schools due to the pandemic. The school shut-down will
4

https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/South%20Asia%20Covid-19%20Paper_5.pdf

26

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

lead to a loss of 0.5 ‘learning adjusted years of schooling.’5 Both the health risks and the economic
impacts of the coronavirus are disproportionately affecting population groups with pre-existing
vulnerabilities as well as creating new poor and new vulnerabilities.
With no foreseen permanent cure, the risk continues to increase, and there is high uncertainty
around the return to business as usual. The approach to socio-economic recovery from COVID-19
must be dynamic and flexible, adapting to the ‘new normal’, with various sectors deriving resilient
approaches for sooner and better recovery.

Objectives
Against this background, the SDMC (IU), in collaboration with UNDP, organized a webinar on
“Multi Sectoral Recovery Approaches to Post-COVID-19 and the ‘New Normal” on the 15th
December 2020. The objective of the webinar was to highlight the challenges faced by different
countries and sectors during COVID-19 and discuss multisectoral and resilient recovery approaches
to the post-COVID-19, and beyond. In particular, the Webinar aims to:
i.

ii.
iii.

Highlight the impact of COVID-19 across different sectors including health, education,
tourism, industry and commerce, employment and livelihoods, gender, social protection
and others, during the pandemic of COVID-19;
Discuss policies and measures adopted by different countries to respond and adapt to the
pandemic scenario;
Discuss Recovery plans and strategies that are sustainable and resilient to deal with such
crisis in the future.

Participants
This webinar engaged Senior Officers from Ministries (especially, health, education, tourism,
industry and commerce, employment and livelihoods, gender, social protection) from Member States
dealing with Disaster Risk Management, Disaster Response; National Disaster Management
Organizations (NDMOs) from all the SAARC Member States.

5

https://bloncampus.thehindubusinessline.com/news-wrap/politeco/the-covid-cost-ofeducation/article32882193.ece

27

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Agenda
S.No.
1.

Topic
Inauguration of the Webinar
Welcome & Introduction of the
Speakers and about the Webinar
Introductory Remarks by Member
States

Time
30 min
10 min

Resource Person
SDMC (IU)
Director, SDMC (IU)

16 min (2 min Representatives from all the
each + 4 min SAARC Member States
moderation) Afghanistan: Mr. Mohammad
Omar
Mohammadi
Bangladesh: Ms. Momena
Khatun
Bhutan: Mr. Tashi Dawa
India: Mr. Sandeep Poundrik
Maldives: Ms.Aminath Shanfa
Nepal: Mr. Beda Nidhi Khanal
Pakistan: Mr. Niaz Muhammad
Khan
Sri Lanka: Maj. Gen. Sudantha
Ranasinghe

2.

3.

Panel Discussion: Experience of
COVID-19 Needs and Recovery
Assessments
(Experts presentation)
1. COVID -19 Recovery Needs
Assessment
2. Post COVID Recovery: A Health
perspective
3. Promoting Green recovery
Discussion + Q&A

50 min
Mr. Ronald Jackson, UNDP
(15 min each)
Dr. Maung Maung Than
Htike, WHO

Experience Sharing and Lessons
Learned from Member States:
Recovery approaches towards
building back better

45 min
(5 min each)

Dr. Muralee
Thummarukudy, UNEP

15 min

Moderator – Ms. Rita
Missal, UNDP
Representatives from all the
SAARC Member States
Afghanistan: Dr. Lais Mustafa,
MoPH
Bangladesh: Ms. Momena
Khatun, Ministry of DM & Relief

28

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Bhutan: Mr. Tashi Dawa,
Ministry of Economic Affairs
India: Mr. Sandeep Poundrik,
NDMA
Maldives: Ms. Aminath Shanfa,
NDMA
Nepal: Mr. Beda Nidhi Khanal,
NDRRMA
Pakistan: Mr. Niaz Muhammad
Khan, MED
Sri Lanka:
Ms. Kimarli Fernando, Tourism
Development Authority

4.

Discussion

10 min

Wrap up

10 min

Moderator - Director, SDMC
(IU)
Ms. Rita Missal, UNDP

29

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Regional Webinar on
Multi Sectoral Recovery Approaches to Post COVID19 and the ‘New
Normal’
Introductory Session
On behalf of the SAARC Disaster Management
Centre, Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed all the
participants from respective SAARC Member
States for the second webinar conducted by
SDMC(IU).

The keynote address was given by Mr. P.K.
Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU). He welcomed and
introduced all the dignitaries and resource
persons.
Representatives from each Member States
gave introductory remarks.
The panel discussion was moderated by Ms.
Rita Missal, UNDP.

Session 1: COVID -19 Recovery Needs
Assessment
Mr. Ronald Jackson, UNDP

Mr. Ronald gave brief idea about the systemic
risk and how is it changing the nature of
disasters. Given the current global situation,
novel coronavirus has added to the existing
historical risks in Asia and the Pacific. In 2019,
this region witnessed relentless sequence of
disasters. The underlying risk drivers have
been
poverty,
gender
inequality,
marginalization, social-economic & political
exclusion, climate change, rapid & unplanned
urbanization, unsustainable use of natural
resources, etc. COVID 19 with this platform of
risk drivers has made nature of risk quite
systemic. Risks are not local and unique to
exposed element but can cascade to other
parts of the ‘system’. The cascading effect of
COVID19 on the economy have created new
poor and new vulnerabilities. He listed 10
lessons learnt from the pandemic:
Lesson 1- Caught Unaware: Countries need to
anticipate and plan for pandemics and
disasters.
Lesson 2- Health first: A faster and stronger
health response is critical to contain
pandemics.
Lesson 3- Preventing a Socio-Economic Crisis:
Rapid funding is pivotal to protect the most
vulnerable.
Lesson 4- Get the Evidence: Data and
Assessments must guide recovery.

30

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Lesson 5- Show me the money: Diverse
financing arrangements help to sustain long
term recovery.
Lesson 6- Be the leader: Dedicated national
leadership is essential to achieve effective
recovery.
Lesson 7- Stronger together: Engaging local
governments and community for inclusive
response.
Lesson 8- Build forward: Greener, smarter,
better.
Lesson 9- Use the data: Disaster data can help
countries deal with changing riskscapes.
Lesson 10- Innovate!
Here he gave example of a feasibility study
done by UNDP Bangladesh on Universal Basic
Income for COVID 19 recovery. The study
showed that income support of US$29 per
month to every household for six months will
cost less than 2% of the country’s 2019 GDP.
Mr. Ronald highlighted recommendations for
COVID19 socio-economic recovery which
include international & regional cooperation,
governance, social protection, green economy,
digital disruption and innovation, and funding
to reduce multiple risks.

Session 2: Post COVID Recovery: A
Health perspective
Dr. Maung Maung Than Htike, WHO

together. Emerging lessons being learned
from the pandemic are- leadership at all level
of governance, risk-informed decision making,
whole of society approach, knowledge &
innovation, managing the infodemic, core
health requirements under IHR, and
community engagement. Dr. Hitke recollected
the WHO regional priorities related to health
emergency and disaster risk management
which includes:
• “Scaling up capacity developments in
emergency risk management” – one of the
eight regional flagship priorities in SouthEast Asia Region since 2014
• “Delhi
Declaration on Emergency
Preparedness”, 2019 with four main focus
areas: Identify, Invest, Implement,
Interlink
• “‘Member States’ declaration for collective
response to COVID19”, 2020
He explained the health risk management
framework, for achieving resilience and SDGs,
especially focussing on universal health
coverage. Framework also highlights that
preparedness is the key to achieve resilience.
Dr. Htike explained about the Intra-Action
Review (IAR) in preparedness and response
cycle for qualitative review of actions at
national and sub-national levels so that
countries do not miss critical opportunities for
learning and improvement to better respond
to the COVID-19 outbreak. Further he
discussed about Health Emergency and
Disaster Risk Management Framework,
resilient health system, and promoting
partnerships & cooperation.

Session 3: Promoting Green recovery
Dr. Muralee Thummarukudy, UNEP
Dr. Htike highlighted that recovery is the most
complex of the disaster management
functions. In this pandemic, health and socioeconomic sector recovery must happen

31

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

plastic waste increased dramatically because
of packaged material, packaged food, online
shopping. These challenges emerged on
environmental sector during the pandemic
and are lessons to be learnt for future.

Dr. Muralee discussed that how COVID 19 is a
primarily a health crisis but we also know that
it’s not just the health crisis. It led to
lockdowns which led to economic recession
and even in countries which did not lockdown.
Like every other sector, COVID19 has also
affected environmental sector. He discussed
about habitat destruction and zoonotic
diseases. To prevent future pandemics, better
management of environmental resources and
biodiversity is required. With such huge
number of people affected by the virus, health
waste management has been of concern. The
waste produced is not only from the patients
but also the healthcare workers which
includes PPEs. It is estimated that waste of
1kg-3kg is produced per patient per day. In
many countries, problem wasn’t the existing
system to manage waste but these systems got
overwhelmed. The need to improve
healthcare waste management system, with or
without COVID, came as a lesson. Dr. Muralee
discussed about the work of UNEP in
Afghanistan and India. He also highlighted that
not just the healthcare waste management
was affected but also general waste
management was affected due to multiple
reasons. Due to lockdown, there were issues of
waste collection- segregation or aggregation
of waste from people who were in quarantine
or isolation was an issue. At many places such
waste was not collected because this was
household waste potentially contaminated.
The plastic waste management also took a
backseat during this crisis. The amount of

Session 4: Experience Sharing and
Lessons Learned from Member States:
Recovery approaches towards building
back better
Afghanistan
The Member State representative from
Ministry of Public Health presented on the
statistics of the cases in Afghanistan.
Afghanistan formulated new policies post first
wave of COVID which were expanded after
second wave. Few such policies are
strengthening national health system,
participation of private sector, introduction of
clinical case definition and standard treatment
guidelines, strengthening risk communication,
home based care, prevention of corruption.
Plans were made in line with these policies.
Measures were taken accordingly like
strategic leadership for controlling COVID19,
hospital care, lab expansion, surveillance &
contact tracing, risk communication, logistics
& operation, and trainings. The trend of
COVID19 is still not known thus mid-term and
long-term recovery plan is required. The
pandemic disturbed other essential services
like mother and child care, polio immunization
program, etc. but also came as an opportunity
to strengthen the system.

Bangladesh
The Member State representative couldn’t
connect online. Few points from the
presentation shared are as follows:
With the outbreak of covid-19 there was
precautionary lockdown and Army was

32

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

deployed all over the country. Other measures
were closer of providing online class facilities,
arrange loan facilities for the students to buy
smart phone, declare incentive for prime
health fighters, cash incentive for temporarily
workless people, cash incentive by EFT to
avoid middleman, conduct mobile court to
ensure social distancing and daily need supply
chain uninterrupted.

Bhutan
The Member State representative from
Ministry of Economic Affairs highlighted the
very controlled number of cases in Bhutan and
zero mortality because of good political
leadership. All the 438 cases (out of which 404
are recovered) that were in isolation or
quarantine, all the associated cost was borne
by the State. This was done as per the
constitution of Bhutan – to provide free health
care services to all its citizen. The socioeconomic issue was dealt with by providing
minimum daily wages to all people who have
been displaced, who lost their small
businesses, or businesses that shut down.
Infodemic has been avoided through
dissemination of right information through
regular updates, press releases and briefings
by the Prime Minister. All the students in all
parts of the country received online education
through self-instructional material developed
by Ministry of Education. Accelerating
investment in manufacturing sector, public
infrastructure development work to ensure
liquidity in the market, promoting bubble and
domestic tourism, are some of the measures
taken towards recovery.

India
The Member State representative from NDMA
described how phasewise lockdown happened
since March 2020 and use of technology –

Aarogya Setu - in contact tracing and alerting
people. NDMA developed a DSS platform that
was geo-enabled to which all the state
authorities and other stakeholders were given
access and data was taken from Ministry of
Health. This helped in planning actions to
respond to COVID19. National Migration
Information System (NMIS) was also
developed to facilitate coordination between
interstate, states and railways for stranded
persons. Similarly, he explained about other
systems that were developed in response to
COVID like COVID-19 Savdhan, psychosocial
helpline for COVID-19 people, mobility
monitoring, etc.

Maldives
The Member State representative from NDMA
shared the previous experience of such health
emergency and existing multi-sectoral
approach as mentioned in the DM act. Health
protection agency from all the stakeholders
were operating even before the first case was
reported. National Emergency Operation
Centre was established and responsibility was
given to NDMA, Maldives. The tourism was not
allowed with the identification of first case
itself, this had negative impact on the income
of many people who were dependent on
tourism. As a lesson learnt from this pandemic,
Maldives need to find other mechanism of
ensuring the food security because 90% of
food consumed in Maldives is imported;
Importance of CSOs and private sector
inclusion in emergency management.

Nepal
The Member State representative from NDMA
highlighted that Nepal being a land-locked
country faced issue of managing migrants as
borders were sealed due to lockdown. In four
months of lockdown all the sectors including

33

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

tourism, education, employment has been
affected. Many ministries are planning
recovery framework. Food, health and
infrastructure systems are in first priority and
much is invested in these sectors. Risk
mapping and communication is a major
lesson, data command centre is necessary to
avoid data gaps. Many systems like health and
education are based on private sector which
are tried to be run on digital facilities.
Regulating the private sector has come in as a
challenge. Infodemic and economic growth are
other challenges.

Pakistan
The Member State representative from
Ministry of Industries and Production
informed about the National Coordination
Committee; and Commands and Operation
Centre headed by Ministry of Planning. In
terms of relief, Government released Rs. 1.2T
worth of package spent through multi-sector
to address the challenges. Economic package
supported low income families, daily wage
workers, agriculture sector, utility stores
corporation, accelerated procurement of
wheat, SMEs, COVID19 testing was almost free
through National Institute of Health.
Construction sector was opened first
considering the long value chain, then
industries were open in phases.

Lanka since March. For recovery in tourism
sector, 3 key areas have been identified. First,
in short term, survival of industry
stakeholders and service providers so that
they don’t move out otherwise it would be
difficult to rebuild capacities to resume
tourism. Thus, financial support & relief
package was provided to these service
providers in form of moratoriums, special
loans, financial grants and delaying payments
of utility bills. In medium term, contribution
and promotion of local tourism for business
sustainability was looked into. In long term,
changing strategic direction of the industry to
be effective under new norm and conditions.
Linking digitization and technology with
tourism need to be explored. Sustainable
tourism; clean, green and responsible tourism;
is going to play a major role during and after
COVID.

Concluding Remarks
Concluding remarks were given by Ms. Missal
and vote of thanks was given by Director
SDMC(IU).

Sri Lanka
The Member State representative from
Ministry of Tourism informed that only
selected areas identified by Ministry of Health
are undergoing lockdown, rest provinces and
districts are open. Tourism industry in Sri
Lanka has been resilient to past challenges but
the COVID situation has been very unique
where entire global tourism industry come to
a halt. There has been no tourist arrival in Sri

34

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

List of Participant

#

Country
Name

Contact Details
Flag

Participants Name

Designation
Mobile Number

Email Address

1

Afghanistan

Mr. Mohammad Omar
Mohammadi

Director of International
Relation, SMDM

93 708293232

omar.mohammadi
@gmail.com,

2

Afghanistan

Mr. Ahmad Sameer
Kohdamani

Head of Grant Donation,
SMDM

93 700976956

akohdamani@gmail
.com,

3

Afghanistan

Mr. Abdullah Akef

Director of Risk Mitigation,
SMDM

93 786080508

abdullah.akef@gma
il.com,

4

Afghanistan

Mr. Mohammad Ajmal
Stanekzai

Head of Education Dept,
SMDM

93 730208981

ajmal.stanikzai9@g
mail.com,

5

Afghanistan

Mr. Ahmad khan Nafeh

Director of EOC, SMDM

93 703060703

ahmad.nafeez013@
gmail.com,

6

Afghanistan

Mr. Sayed Hares
Hofiani

Head of Emergency
Incidents, SMDM

93 784401030

hares.hofiani25m@
yahoo.com,

7

Afghanistan

Mr. Eng Sayed
Sarwoddin Saifi

Head of Research & Studies,
SMDM

93 777224522

eng.saifi786@gmail
.com,

8

Afghanistan

Mr. Mohammad Sediq
Hassani

Director of policy and
planning, SMDM

93 700285257

msg.hassani@gmail
.com,

9

Afghanistan

Mr. Abdul Muqim
Afghan

Director of Planning and
Policy, MIC

93 700001563

muqeemafghan@ya
hoo.com,

10

Bangladesh

Ms. Momena Khatun

Joint Secretary, MDMR

880 1712113380

momena5628@gma
il.com,

11

Bangladesh

Ms. Kazi Tasmin Ara
Ajmery

Deputy Secretary, MDMR

880 1841318745

dsdmmodmr@gmai
l.com,

12

Bhutan

Ms. Dechen Wangmo
Dorji

Ministry of Labour and
Human Resources

975 17864899

dwdorji@molhr.go
v.bt

13

Bhutan

Mr. Tashi Dawa

975 17691717

tashidawa@moea.g
ov.bt

14

Bhutan

Ms. Kinley Yangzom

975 17215888

kyangzom@moea.g
ov.bt

15

Bhutan

Colonel Karma
Tshering

975 02322347

karmat@rbp.gov.bt

16

Bhutan

Mr. Karma Tenzin

975 17631660

karmatenzin@touri
sm.gov.bt

17

India

Mr. A P Behera

Officiating Director General,
Department of Industry,
Ministry of Economic
Affairs
Officiating Director General,
Department of Trade,
Ministry of Economic
Affairs
Superintendent of Police,
Fire Service Division, Royal
Bhutan Police
Senior Tourism Officer,
Quality Assurance Division,
Tourism Council of Bhutan
Professor, NCERT

18

India

Ms. Rajana Arora

Professor, NCERT

amar_b2000@yaho
o.com,
ranjuarora1967@ya
hoo.co.in,

35

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

#

Country
Name

Contact Details
Flag

Participants Name

Designation
Mobile Number

19

India

Mr. Prabhudas Xalxo

20

India

Mr. Narinder Paul

21

India

22

India

23

India

Mr. Brijendra Kumar
Mishra
Ms. Maitreyee
Mukherjee
Mr. Victor Mecwan

24

India

Mr. Uday Bhanu Das

25

India

Mr. Niraj Sharan

26

Maldives

Ms. Mariyam Shizna

27

Maldives

Ms. Aminath Shaufa

28

Nepal

29

Pakistan

30

Pakistan

31

Sri Lanka

32

Sri Lanka

33

Sri Lanka

Ms. Dhammika
Wijayasinghe

34

Sri Lanka

35

Mr. Niaz Muhammad
Khan
Mr. Zulfiqar Ali

Email Address

Deputy Secretary, Ministry
of Social Justice &
Empowerment
Under Secretary, Ministry of
commerce and Industry
Consultant (GIS), NDMA

91 9868373064

prabhudas.xalxo@
wc.in,

91 7503989878

narinder.paul@nic.i
n,

Senior Consultant, NDMA

91 9366728601

91 8285057671

Additional CEO, GSDMA
Chief Medical Officer
(SAG), MoHFW
Assistant Director General,
Ministry of Tourism
Program Coordinator,
NDMA
Project Officer, NDMA

Senior Joint Secretary
(MED)
Deputy Director (IC),
Ministry of Human Rights
Director General, DMC

ub.das71@gov.in
91 9891435108
960 333421
960 7718768

neeraj.sharan@nic.i
n
mariyam.shizna@n
dma.gov.mv
aminath.shaufa@nd
ma.gov.mv

92 3219503123

94 773957896

zulfiqar.jhammat@
gmail.com,
dg@dmc.gov.lk,

Director General, TDA

94 112426800

dg@srilanka.travel,

Ms. Kimali Fernando

Chairman, TDA

94 112426800

Sri Lanka

Mr. A.H.M.U. Aruna
Bandara

Director General, Ministry of
Industry

94 773128137

plan_unit@yahoo.c
om,

36

Sri Lanka

Mr. M.H. G Bandara

Additional Secretary, WCD

94 1121872

37

Sri Lanka

Mrs. Nirosha
Kannangara

94 711405306

38

Sri Lanka

Mrs. Ishani
Weththasingha

39

Sri Lanka

Mr. Pradeep Ysarathna

Assistant Director, Ministry
of Education and Higher
Education
D.D.E.C.O, Ministry of
Education and Higher
Education
District Secretary

secycdwa@gmail.c
om,
niroshakgedu@gma
il.com,

40

Sri Lanka

Dr. Sunimal
Jayathunge

94 712889065

41

Sri Lanka

Col B.D.R. Budagoda

Director, Climate Change
Secretariat, Ministry of
Environment
GS01 OPS

Major General
Sudantha Ranasinghe
Dr. Novil Wijesekara

92 3335216599

Ministry of Health

94 711051805

ishani060@gmail.c
om

94 717524418

predeepyasaratne@
gmail.com,
sunimal68@hotmail
.com,
bdrbudagoda@gmai
l.com,

36

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

#
42

Country
Name
Sri Lanka

Contact Details
Flag

Participants Name

Designation
Mobile Number

Col Pradeep
Mapalagama

District Disaster
Management Coordinating
Unit

94 773957872

Email Address
chrishmapa@gmail.
com,

37

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Annexure 3
Webinar Report on
Enhancing Preparedness for Climate Related Disasters Using Space-Based
Technologies
Program Note
Introduction
SDMC (IU) and the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA), through the UN-SPIDER,
organised two programmes in 2018 and 2019 for the countries in South Asia. These programmes
focussed on the using space-based information for monitoring of Sendai framework and it also
explored specific topics such as multi-hazard disaster risk assessment. The programme has been
successful in keeping regional level engagement with disaster management community and technical
organisations that are provider of space-based information in the SAARC region. These programmes
are supported by two important partners: International Water Management Institute (IWMI) and
Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Asia and the Pacific (CSSTEAP). Considering
the success of earlier conducted programs, it is planned to maintain continuity during COVID-19
pandemic situation, through virtual mode.

About the proposed Webinar (Training and Simulation exercises)
The workshop is aimed at supporting efforts of the countries in the region to make effective
utilization of space-based information for providing early warning and risk information, which also
contributes to achieve targets of the Sendai Framework. This joint effort should allow the
participants to identify risk areas, access flood and cyclone related early warning information,
prepare for the use of emergency response mechanisms like International Charter Space and Major
Disasters and Sentinel Asia and prepare the products needed for decision making. These will be
tangible outcome of the workshops. The workshop will also allow the participants to share their
experiences.

Participants
The webinar engaged senior officers from National Disaster Management Authorities, senior officers
dealing with DRM at various levels, agencies dealing with application of Remote Sensing & Geospatial
technologies from SAARC Member States.

Organizers
•
•

SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU); and
United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA), through its United Nations Platform
for Space based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER)

38

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

•
•

International Water Management Institute (IWMI), Sri Lanka and
Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Asia and the Pacific (UN affiliated),
India

Agenda
S.No.
1.

Technical Sessions

Time

Inauguration of the Webinar
- Welcome & Introduction of the
Speakers
- Opening remarks

13:30 - 14: 00
05 min

SDMC (IU)
Director, SDMC (IU)

02 min

Dr. Shirish Ravan – Head,
UNDRR
Dr. Mark Smith - Director
Gen., IWMI
Dr. Prakash Chauhan –
Director, CSSTEAP
Representatives from all the
SAARC Member States

03 min
03 min
Introductory Remarks by Member
States

16 min (2 min
each + 4 min
moderation)

Resource Person

Afghanistan: Md. Omar
Mohammadi, DIR, SMDM
Bangladesh: Mr. Sanjay Ku.
Bhowmik, Joint Secy.
MoEFCC
Bhutan: Mr. Tayba Buddha
Tamang, Chief, NCHM
India: Dr. Manoj Rajan,
Commissioner, KSDMA
Maldives: Ms. Mariyam
Shizna, Prog. Coord., NDMA
Nepal: Mr. Janakraj Dahal,
Joint Secy., MHA
Pakistan: Mr. Idrees Mahsud,
Member, NDMA
Sri Lanka: Maj. Gen.
Sudantha Ranasinghe, DMC

39

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

2.

Understanding meteorological
information for early warning
Discussion

14:00 – 14:45
(15 min each)
15 min

3.

Earth Observation for Risk
Analysis and scenario building
i. Puzzle
ii. Presentation
iii. Online browsing of various
knowledge products for natural
hazards & disaster (NOAA GFS,

14:45 – 15:30

Dr. R. Jenamani, Scientist –
IMD, India
Moderator- Dr. Prakash
Chauhan, CSSTEAP
Presenter & ModeratorDr. Giriraj Amarnath, IWMI

Himawari, GloFAS, Earth Engine, NASA
Worldview, Bhuvan or NDEM, Disaster
charter)

4.

5.

Earth Observation for Emergency
Response and scenario building
1. Listing space-based/geospatial
information mapping flood risk
zones, monitoring flood
situations and providing early
warning
(Participants to put their
answers in the chat box)
2. Use Case: Recent floods in
Uttarakhand, India - experience
of using Earth Observation.
Experience Sharing by SAARC
Member States

15:30 – 16:00

Moderator- Mr. C.M. Bhatt &
Dr. Shirish Ravan (CSSTEAP)

16:00 – 16:45
(5 min each)

Representatives from all the
SAARC Member States
Afghanistan: Mr. Abdul Baset
Rahmani, Sr. Advisor, SMDM
Bangladesh: Md. Mahmud
Hossain, Dy. Dir., Dept. of Env.
Bhutan: Mr. Tayba Buddha
Tamang, Chief, NCHM
India: Mr. Raja Chakraborty,
Consultant, NDMA

40

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Maldives: Nepal: Mr. Anil Pokheral, Chief
Exc. Dir., NDRRMA
Pakistan: Mr. Muhammad
Farooq, Dir. (SACRED),
SUPARCO
Sri Lanka: Mr. K.A.D.P.K.
Kodippili, DMC

Moderator - Director, SDMC
(IU)
6.

Wrap up

16:45 – 17:00

41

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Regional Workshop on
Enhancing Preparedness for Climate Related Disasters Using SpaceBased Technologies
Introductory Session
On behalf of the SAARC Disaster Management
Centre, Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed all the
participants from respective SAARC Member
States for the third webinar conducted by
SDMC(IU).

The keynote address was given by Mr. P.K.
Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU). He welcomed and
introduced all the dignitaries and resource
persons.

use of space based and geo-spatial
information. It has facilitated the access to
satellite imagery during emergency. Sri Lanka
has already been authorized to activate the
international charter which they did during
Cyclone Burevi and got all the satellite images.
They were assisted by IWMI to monitor the
impact.

Opening remarks were given by Dr. Shirish
Ravan – Head, UNDRR; Dr. Mark Smith Director Gen., IWMI; and Dr. Prakash Chauhan
– Director, CSSTEAP.

Dr. Mark Smith acknowledged on behalf of
IWMI. He briefly talked about the 2019 policy
brief which included possible technologies for
vulnerable communities in South Asia towards
climate risk. He appreciated the timely step of
conducting this workshop in fascinating and
crucial area of science and technology.

Dr. Shirish Ravan briefed about this third
program conducted in collaboration with
SDMC(IU). UNSPIDER is working with several
countries in the SAARC region by providing
technical advisory and services to strengthen

Dr. Prakash Chauhan emphasized on the role
of space technology in early warning systems,
DRR, and post disaster recovery. He talked
about the issue of climate change and its
implications like sea level rise, extreme

42

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

weather events, etc. With the use of space
technology, scientists can see the big picture.
Representatives from each Member States
gave introductory remarks.

Session 1: Understanding
meteorological information for early
warning
Dr. R. Jenamani, IMD

heavy rainfall, tropical cyclone, dust plume,
smog/pollution, their analysis and impacts.

Session 2: Earth Observation for Risk
Analysis and scenario building
Dr. Giriraj Amarnath, IWMI

The session started by engaging participants
in a puzzle on natural hazard terminology.
Dr. Jenamani delivered a session on
Application of Space based System in Severe
Weather Monitoring and Early Warning. His
presentation covered the basics of Remote
Sensing and its application to weather related
disaster/hazard monitoring, EWS and post
disaster recovery. He explained the
advancement in obtaining satellite data- from
1960s when data was obtained from NOAA
and now countries have their own satellites
with range of receiving data in minutes.
Further he explained in detailed tracking of
clouds in satellite imagery to predict the
weather and watching for dust storms, smog,
pollutions, forest/oil fires, volcano eruption,
etc. He browsed through the RAPID
application, a web-based quick visualization
and analysis tool for INSAT satellite data for
identification of weather events. He discussed
the case of thunder-lightning event in June
over Bihar and East Uttar Pradesh, States of
India, that caused around 89 lives lost –
analysis of satellite imagery. He further
explained the examples of extreme events –

Dr. Giriraj further presented on earth
observation data for risk analysis. He
presented IWMI’s strategy and programmes
that promote resilience among farmer
communities, which are largely affected by the
extreme weather events happening in the
region. Technologies are playing a big role and
supporting governments proactively in risk
management strategies. He explained the
iterative approach of disaster risk continuum

43

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

wherein DRM is a continuous process over
time and the frameworks can’t exist in
different compartments of preparedness,
response, recovery, etc. All the pillars should
be well-connected supported by scientific
knowledge. With the help of satellite based
observation, hazards can be identified, levels
of exposure and vulnerability can be assessed
to take timely decisions. With this sustainable
climate investment can be promoted and
infrastructure can be planned in better way to
reduce risk in the future. He explained the
application of space technology in all the four
phases of DRM. He showed some examples of Mapping water-related disaster risk, climate
screening products for investing in disaster
resilience, hydro-met optimization tool, use of
data during cyclone Amphan – overlay of
cyclone-flood hazard with covid19 cases and
crops likely to be harvested, and evolution of
flood risk resources and technology from
paper to digital mapping. He also discussed on
how next generation flood risk technologies
would look like. It would be AI based
prediction system. He explained in detail
about the climate insurance and how it helps
in enhancing resilience – Index Based Flood
Insurance.
He browsed through some of the online
knowledge products related to natural
hazards
and
disaster
datasets
and
observations like NOAA, Worldview, Global
Flood Awareness System, Meteorological
Satellite Centre, GEE, and Committee on Earth
Observation Satellites.

Session 3: Earth Observation for
Emergency Response and scenario
building
Mr. C.M. Bhatt, IIRS
Mr. Bhatt explained the targets and priorities
of SFDRR, Mr. Bhatt focussed on Priority 1 i.e.

Understanding Disaster Risk, where space
based technology has an important role to
play. Post declaration of global frameworks,
trends in satellite data availability from
different sensors is becoming freely available
to public, showing potential it has. He listed
some of the recent advancements like new
geospatial policy, cloud computing, AI-ML,
drones, analysis ready products, and the
online resources that just require bandwidth
internet to run operations.
He further presented on the case study of the
recent Uttarakhand flood – Rishi Ganga Valley
flash fool, Chamoli.

The cause behind the disaster was studied as
an
ice
mask
sliding
causing
avalanche/landslide in the rishi ganga valley
and flooding the stream and river below. It
damaged various hydel projects downstream
and even created a lake in a tributary. The area
was monitored and observed from the space
data. This has been a classic example where
satellite data/images have been able to give
first opinion after the disaster happened.
Because being a difficult terrain people were
not knowing exactly where and why this
happened. He showed before, during and
after-event satellite images (SENTINAL,
CARTOSAT, IRS) which clearly interpreted the
cause of the floods. The satellite imagery of
such type of events are of great help to the
government to identify the area and exact
damage. In this case, the satellite images were
very rightfully used and was able to subside
the confusion within the public.

44

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

He explained about the ‘international charter’
which has 61 contributing satellite,
continuously providing data in different
resolutions, heling to respond in a faster
manner.

Session 4: Experience Sharing by
Member States:
Afghanistan
The Member State representative from Office
of State Minister of Disaster Management
presented about the utilities and application of
space based technology in Afghanistan. He
briefed about the climate related hazards in
the country like intensive precipitation and
flash floods. The govt. of Afghanistan in
collaboration with international partners has
sufficiently improved the Afghanistan Natural
Hazards Data Centre in terms of DRM. One of
the systems established in the country is the
Remote Assessment System which can be used
by all stakeholders in DRM. The objective for
the future is to develop for real time disaster
management.

Bangladesh
The Member State representative from the
Dept. of Environment gave the background of
climate vulnerability of Bangladesh with the
risk of sea level rise and displacement of
people in coastal areas. He mentioned about
the major initiatives taken by Govt. of
Bangladesh in form of policy response like
NDMP, Standing Orders, BCCSAP, BCCTF, NAP,
etc.
and
actions/initiatives
like
institutionalization & establishment of EWS,
training climate vulnerable women, cyclone &
flood shelter, etc. Use of technologies to
enhance preparedness – Bangladesh launched
its first satellite in 2018, established Flood
Forecasting & Warning Centre, Real-time

Digital Weather Information through mobile
app, etc.

Bhutan
The Member State representative from
National Center for Hydrology and
Meteorology
presented
on
hydrometeorological related disasters and services
in Bhutan. He gave an overview of different
disaster types in Bhutan like land degradation,
GLOF, flash floods, wind/thunder/hail storms,
droughts, forest fire, etc. He explained the
rainfall pattern raising concerns for landslides
in particular months, 70% of the settlements
are located along the drainage basins
vulnerable to floods, various events of GLOF
impact downstream, and many other
significant hydro-met events. He presented
the case of recent GLOF events and the rapid
assessment study. Hydro-met services
provided include weather services, aviationmet services, climate services historical
hydrological data services, EWS, monitoring &
modelling services.

India
The Member State representative from NDMA
presented on experience in use of geospatial
technology. NDMA has developed a GIS system
which collects data from the States based on
which a decision support system is being
developed. He discussed about the national
initiatives like India Disaster Resource
Network (IDRN), GIS in DM, GIS portal of
NDMA. He explained the working of IDRN
which is initiated by MHA in collaboration
with UNDP; BHUVAN which is single largest
web GIS portal for free data and services over
India; multi-layered GIS platform by NDMA &
NIC; web based composite risk atlas
(WEBCRA); geo-enabled messaging platform;
National
Database
for
Emergency

45

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Management (NDEM) & its use in recent
Uttarakhand floods; and integrated analytical
tools.

Maldives
The Member State representative couldn’t
present due to technical issue.

Nepal
The Member State representative from
NDRRMA shared the experience of Nepal on
the subject. The National Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Authority
(NDRRMA) is relatively newer agency mapped
within MHA. It is currently working on the five
priorities; first one being risk assessment and
setting up of a national disaster risk
assessment portal. The agency is also working
on hazard assessment with other departments
that can convert the assessments into risk
information that’s accessible down to
municipal level. The risk information helps
build capacity of the local government and
make informed decisions. COVID portal has
been developed wherein near real time data is
reported. The second priority is on early
warning system – impact based early warning
system that includes not only communication
but also capacity building, landslide EWS. The
third area is reconstruction and the recovery
works. Fourth area is effectiveness in the
response system, support has been received
by UNSPIDER in terms of training users on
using satellite-based system. The last area is
disaster risk financing. He highlighted the
need for similar capacity building programs
and exchange of knowledge within the region.

support during the natural hazards
particularly flood, earthquake, drought and
landslide, and also increasing GLOF
phenomenon. The SUPARCO was established
as a dedicated centre post experience of two
major events of 2005 earthquake and 2010
floods. It utilizes the country’s own satellites
and partner satellites for response during such
events. NDMA is currently undertaking the
multi hazard, vulnerability and risk
assessment studies and primarily for climate
induced disasters. He presented a platform
called Disaster Watch with various map layers
for different types of events. SUPARCO has
also developed recommended practices, for
the UNSPIDER program, on flood hazard
assessment, flood mapping and damage
assessment using SENTINAL 2 optical data,
and the third one is in the pipeline on drought
monitoring.

Sri Lanka
The Member State representative from DMC
couldn’t present due to technical issue.

Concluding Remarks
Concluding remarks were given by Mr.
Sumedh Patil and program ended with a vote
of thanks.

Pakistan
The Member State representative from
SUPARCO briefed that SUPARCO is the key
partner of the NDMA and provide space based

46

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

List of Participant

47

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

48

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

49

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

