1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

2

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

3

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

i

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

ii

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

1. Background
The SAARC region, by virtue of its unique geographical setting, climate and socioeconomic
vulnerabilities, is amongst the world’s multi-hazard hotspots. The region bears the brunt of largescale catastrophic disasters. Major population centers such as Kathmandu, Karachi, Kabul, New
Delhi, Dhaka lie on key seismic fault lines or along coastal areas constantly buffeted by cyclones,
floods, and storm surges. The latter extreme weather events increase in number and intensity due
to the effects of climate change. Unplanned human settlements, unsafe building practices, and high
population densities have further compounded the exposure and vulnerability of people and
economies. As a result, earthquakes, cyclones, floods, tsunamis, droughts, and other hazards of
every type and magnitude continue to consume lives, property, and livelihoods across the region.
SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC-IU) has been set up at Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Management (GIDM) Campus, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India in November 2016, with a vision to
be a Centre of Excellence to provide policy advice, technical support on system development,
capacity building services and training for holistic management of disaster risk in the SAARC
region. The centre facilitates exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient
management of disaster risk. Eight Member States, i.e. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India,
Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are served by the SDMC (IU).

2. Scope of Work
SDMC(IU) is working to give a fillip to regional cooperation for holistic management of disaster
risk in the SAARC region. It serves the Member States by providing policy advice, technical
support on system development, capacity building services and training. The Centre facilitates
exchange of information and expertise for effective and efficient management of disaster risk. As
needed, the Centre undertakes projects and programmes to serve the needs of the Member States.
It seeks to expand from a 'knowledge sharing' organisation to an ‘action-response' organisation
and develop Standard Operating Procedures, tools, guidelines and methodologies for different
types and phases of disasters.

1

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

It is vital for SDMC (IU) to frame cooperation as technical responsibility for regional Disaster
Management and Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) making material contribution to the lives of
vulnerable population and those exposed by the natural disasters. The centre is entrusted with the
responsibility to support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science
& Technology, knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity
development, collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals
and other relevant frameworks adopted by Member States.
In addition, the SDMC (IU) has been re-established with an expanded role by merging four
erstwhile SAARC Centres namely (1) SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC– New Delhi,
India); (2) SAARC Meteorological Research Centre (SMRC - Dhaka, Bangladesh); (3) SAARC
Forestry Centre (SFC - Thimphu, Bhutan); (4) SAARC Coastal Zone Management Centre
(SCZMC - Male, Maldives). Disaster Risk Reduction relevant functions of these centres are also
a part of the scope of work.

3. Vision
To be a Centre of Excellence for regional cooperation and specialised service delivery to Member
States for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), Response, Recovery and Sustainable Development.

4. Mission
To support Member States in their DRR initiatives through application of Science & Technology,
knowledge from multiple disciplines, exchange of good practices, capacity development,
collaborative research and networking in line with the global priorities and goals and other relevant
frameworks adopted by Member States.

5. Functions of SDMC
1.

Provide assistance in formulation of Policies, Strategies and Sustainable Development
Frameworks in relation to disaster Management and Disaster Risk Reduction

2.

Undertake/ promote research for better understanding of the various meteorological
phenomena of particular interest to the SAARC Region, with a view to enhance the
capability of National Meteorological Services (NMSs) of the Member States, particularly

2

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

in the field of early warning to provide support for preparedness and management of natural
hazards involving relevant knowledge and operational institutions in India.
3.

Collect, compile, document and disseminate data, information, case studies, indigenous
knowledge and good practices relating to disaster risk reduction, and sustainable
development.

4.

Compile and collate information for the region required for weather forecasting and
monitoring special weather phenomena.

5.

Strengthen regional response mechanisms to reduce loss of lives, injuries and to provide
timely humanitarian assistance to people affected by disasters.

6.

To identify organisations in the region dealing with relevant key focus areas, facilitate
interaction, promote coordination and cooperation amongst institutions (ministries,
authorities,

inter-governmental

organisations,

international

organisations,

non-

governmental organisations, funding agencies, etc.) and other stakeholders involved
through networking for the exchange of experiences, information, data, expertise,
knowledge and technology transfer in the key focus areas of SDMC.
7.

Organise training workshops, conferences, seminars, lectures for various stakeholders on
key priority/focus areas of the Member States and on various aspects of disaster
management.

8.

Develop educational materials and conduct academic and professional courses on key
priority/focus areas.

9.

Develop training modules on various aspects of key priority/focus areas and conduct
programmes for Training of Trainers including simulation exercises.

10.

Coordinate SAADMEx with the Member States.

11.

Analyse information, undertake research and disseminate research findings on key
priority/focus areas among the Member States.

12.

Undertake preparation of databases, publication of journals, research papers and books,
and establish and maintain online resource centre in furtherance of the aforesaid objectives.

13.

Collaborate with other global, regional and national centres of excellence to achieve
synergies in programmes and activities.

14.

Conduct studies on assessment and management of disaster risks posing a threat to
inclusive and sustainable development in South Asia.

3

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

15.

Undertake

research,

projects,

programmes

contributing

towards

mitigating the impact of trans-boundary disasters.
16.

Facilitate from within and outside the region supply of emergency needs in times of
disaster, in line with SAARC disaster response mechanisms.

17.

Facilitate exchange of experiences and technical support among Member States on
National Action Plans for Disaster Risk Reduction.

6. Activities in the Finanacial Year 2019-2020
6.1

Preparation of Activity Plan

SDMC (IU) had prepared its annual Activity Plan for FY 2019-2020 based on the discussion in
third Inter-Ministerial Meeting and shared with MEA, GoI which has been approved by MEA on
May 1, 2019.
6.2

Capacity Building Programs organized

Name of Program

No of
Participants
24

2.

Towards Coherent Disaster Risk
Reduction
Strategy
Development, Implementation
and Monitoring among SAARC
Member States
Post Disaster Needs Assessment

26

3.

Regional Severe Weather and

23

Sr.
No.
1.

4.

Flash Flood Hazard Early
Warning Mechanisms
Role of Earth Observation in
Multi- Hazard Disaster Risk
Assessment and Monitoring
Targets of the Sendai
Framework

21

Presence of
the Member
States
All

Date

Program
Details

09 – 11
July, 2019

Annexure 1

All Member
States except
Bhutan
All

27 – 30
Aug, 2019

Annexure 2

15 – 17
Oct, 2019

Annexure 3

All Member
States except
Sri Lanka

04 – 07
Dec, 2019

Annexure 4

4

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

5.

Rapid Structural & NonStructural Risk Assessment of
School Building

23

All Member
States except
Pakistan

21 – 24
Jan, 2020

Annexure 5

Participants
•117 Participants have been trained in five Capacity Building Programs
Experts
•42 Experts (22 from India, 6 from SAARC Member States and 14 others) have
shared their experiences during the capacity development programs

Training Program-wise Number of Participants

26
24

23

21

23

2
15

Risk Assessment of School Building

Rapid Structural & Non-Structural

Hazard Disaster Risk Assessment and
Monitoring Targets of the Sendai
Framework

19

Role of Earth Observation in Multi-

Flash Flood Hazard Early Warning
Mechanisms

Regional Severe Weather and

Post Disaster Needs Assessment

Reduction Strategy Development,
Implementation and Monitoring
among SAARC Member States

Towards Coherent Disaster Risk

19

Resource Persons/ Experts Invited to deliver the talk

5

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

No. of Experts/ Speakers

Ot

t

i

al

E p

Total 42
14
22

E p

di

6
E p
RC C
E p

di

tri

E p

RC C

tri

Ot

t

i

al E p

Feedback from the Participants about the Capacity Building Programs
Quality of Input





Regi

l

l

H z

Ea l

ni

ni



6

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

6.3

Other Programs

Sr. No.
1

2

Activity

Action Taken

Implementation of
STORM Project

o Series of teleconferences/ meetings (on 25/3/ 2019,

Programme on
Development of
Regional Response
Mechanism (RRM) in
the SAARC Region

o The Task Force for Development of Draft Regional

11/06/2019 and 10/02/2020) were held to discuss and
ascertain the current status of the STORM Project and
deliberate towards necessary completion / conclusion of the
project, wherein officials from SAARC Secretariat,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, IMD and ISRO were
participated.
o The MoMs are attached as Annexure 6 for kind reference/
record.
Response Mechanism in SAARC Region was constituted.
o Existing Regional Response Mechanism across the world
and Response Mechanism in each of the SAARC Member
States are being studied.
o The Task Force Meeting was held on 7th June, 2019. The

MoM of the meeting is attached as Annexure 7 for kind
reference/ record.
o Further, SAARC Secretariat in collaboration with IFRC has

organized a “South Asia Forum on Preparedness for
Regional Disaster Response on the Implementation of
SAARC Agreement on Rapid Response to Natural
Disasters (SARRND)” at Kathmandu, Nepal from 4th to 6th
November, 2019. The outcome of the forum is given as
Annexure 8 for information.
3

Celebration of
SAARC Charter Day

o SDMC (IU) celebrated the 35th SAARC Charter Day on 8th
December 2019 by organizing a half-day workshop on “Use
of Space Technologies in Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR)”
in collaboration with UNSPIDER and IWMI, wherein 21
participants from all the Member States (except Sri Lanka)
were participated.

7

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

4

Publications

o SDMC (IU) in collaboration with IWMI has published a

Policy Brief on “Insurance as an agricultural disaster risk
management tool: Evidence and lessons learned from South
Asia” in December 2019.
o SDMC (IU) has collaborate with UNESCAP in developing

Asia-Pacific Disaster Report 2019 which covered a
comprehensive picture of the complexity of disaster risk
landscape in the Asia- Pacific region.
o One volume of the Newsletter has been published and

available on SDMC (IU) web portal.
Annual Report of SDMC (IU) developed.
5

Web Portal

o SDMC (IU) updates its portal with all the necessary

information/ data on regular basis.
o Country Page for each country has been developed. User

Manual for the same has been prepared and shared for
updation of the country page.

6.4

Activities of SDMC (IU) on COVID-19

A pneumonia of unknown cause was detected in Wuhan, China and was first reported to the WHO
Country Office in China on 31 December 2019. Soon the cause of this pneumonia was detected to
be the Novel Coronavirus. The novel coronavirus disease, COVID-19, was declared a Public
Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020. The infectious disease started
spreading globally and the outbreak was announced as a pandemic by World Health Organization
on 11 March 2020.
On 13 March 2020, the Prime Minister of India proposed leadership of SAARC nations to chalk
out a strategy to combat Coronavirus. On 15 March, Prime Minister Shri
Narendra Modi interacted with the leaders of the SAARC countries through video conference.
Some important points discussed were:
•

Prime Minister Modi proposed creation of a COVID-19 Emergency Fund based on
voluntary contributions from all the countries, with India making an initial offer of US $10

8

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

million for the fund. The fund can be used by any of the partner countries to meet the cost
of immediate actions. He informed that India is assembling a Rapid Response Team of
doctors and specialists, along with testing kits and other equipment, which will be on standby, to be placed at the disposal of the countries, if required.
•

Prime Minister also offered arranging for online training capsules for the emergency
response teams of the neighboring countries and sharing of software behind India’s
Integrated Disease Surveillance Portal to help trace possible virus carriers and the people
they contacted. He suggested that existing mechanisms like SAARC Disaster
Management Centre can be used to pool in best practises.

Post this video conferencing, following development was made by SAARC Disaster Management
Centre (SDMC-IU).
SDMC (IU) set up a dedicated web-portal (http://www.covid19-sdmc.org) on COVID-19 for
shared use of SAARC countries. The website aims to provide a platform, wherein through active
participation, all member countries can disseminate reliable information and updates on the
evolving situation relating to COVID-19 in the region, and best practices being followed in
member countries.

A snapshot of the portal (covid19-sdmc.org)

9

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Situation report of the region is updated is updated twice a day on the portal using data from
authentic sources like government/Ministry websites of member countries and WHO. Along with
the regional situation report, individual country situation reports are also linked. The portal also
compiles guidelines and best practices, made available by the member countries. The portal keeps
a track of social media updates on COVID-19, relevant to the region. The portal provides useful
and knowledgeable video links providing awareness on the subject. The portal puts in place all the
important links for the region which can be accessed for in-depth information. The portal also has
a tab for COVID-19 Emergency Fund, which provide updates on contributions by member
countries and will also show the utilization of the funds, in due course of time.

7. Financial Status (Amount in INR)

Total Funds Approved in
FY 2019-20

Fund released in
FY 2019-20
(Including net Interest)

Expenditure incurred in
FY 2019-20

2,97,18,500

1,81,75,670.76

1,12,18,554.62

10

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

ANNEXURE

11

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

12

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

13

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

With funding support from

Programme Note
Towards Coherent Disaster Risk Reduction Strategy Development,
Implementation and Monitoring among SAARC Member States
…“the priority for the international community must be prevention … prevention of natural
disasters and a certain number of other forms and other threats that undermine the wellbeing of the population of our planet."
- UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres

Background and Introduction
The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction is the global blueprint for disaster risk
reduction (DRR). Adopted at the Third UN World Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction
(WCDRR) in March 2015, it was the first major agreement of the post-2015 development
agenda, with seven global targets and four priorities for actions. The Sendai Framework
reinforces the shift from managing disasters to managing risk, and also establishes resiliencebuilding as a shared vision of the 2030 Agenda.
Specifically, the Sendai Framework calls for strong political leadership, commitment, and
involvement of all stakeholders at all levels from local to national and international to pursue
a goal to:
“prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk through the implementation of
integrated and inclusive economic, structural, legal, social, health, cultural,
educational, environmental, technological, political and institutional measures
that prevent and reduce hazard exposure and vulnerability to disaster, increase
preparedness for response and recovery, and thus strengthen resilience”.
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres' remarks at the World Economic Forum, Davos, Switzerland, 19 January 2016
Words Into Action Guidelines:“Developing a National DRR Strategy and Planning for Implementation”, Final Draft, Public Consultation Version to
be released

14

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Pursuit of such a comprehensive goal, requires a strategic approach and a well-defined plan to
ensure efforts are coordinated, while still being inclusive of whole-of-society, and to ensure
resources are efficiently used across all sectors and by all stakeholders. Reflecting this
foundational requirement, Target E of the Sendai Framework calls to “substantially increase the
number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020”. This
precise target is shared with indicators of SDG 1 that calls for an end to poverty, SDG 11 on
sustainable cities and communities, and SDG 13 on climate action.3
Within the guidance and spirit of the Sendai Framework, the UN member states have requested
UNDRR to continue its mandate of facilitating the implementation, review and monitoring of the
Framework. Accordingly, the UNDRR provides training on disaster risk reduction with affiliated
organizations to countries and relevant stakeholders to improve understanding of the Sendai
Framework, including planning for its implementation and use of relevant monitoring tools.

SAARC Background
The South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) was established with the signing
of the SAARC Charter in Dhaka on 8 December 1985. SAARC comprises of eight Member States:
Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka.
Among SAARC areas of cooperation is a focus on Environment, Climate Change and ‘Natural
Disasters’. The Heads of State or Government of the Member States of SAARC, at successive
Summits since 1987, have reiterated the need to strengthen and intensify regional cooperation to
preserve, protect and manage the diverse and fragile eco-systems of the region including the need
to address the challenges posed by climate change and ‘natural disasters’. The Leaders noted that
the development process and prospects of the Member States were being severely undermined by
these challenges.
The preservation and protection of the environment including disaster risk reduction and
management remains a high priority on the agenda of cooperation being pursued by the Member
States of SAARC. The numerous directives issued by successive SAARC Summits and meetings
of the SAARC Environment Ministers provide continued impetus for strengthening and
intensifying regional cooperation in these areas.

15

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Among the Regional Centres established which address diverse aspects of environment, climate
change and disasters, the SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC) provides policy advice
and facilitates capacity building including strategic learning, research, training, system
development, expertise promotion and exchange of information for effective disaster risk
reduction and management – the mandate of the Centre was expanded to include the development
of a Natural Disaster Rapid Response Mechanism (2008).

Workshop Purpose
The overall purpose of this workshop is to strengthen capacities for coherent disaster risk reduction
strategy development, implementation and monitoring at national and local level (Sendai
Framework Target E) among SAARC Member States through shared lessons learned and
introduction to latest guidance and tools.

Organizers


SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC)



UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) Global Education and Training Institute
(GETI) and Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific (ROAP)

Target Audience
SAARC Member State Sendai Framework focal ministries, Ministry of Finance, planning
authorities or others from national government responsible for developing and implementing
disaster risk reduction, development, climate change and sectoral plans and strategies for resilient
development.

Workshop Objectives and Expected Outcomes
Objectives
Overall, the training workshop will provide an opportunity for participants to:


Refresh understanding of concepts and trends in disaster risk reduction (DRR), riskinformed development, climate change adaptation and sustainable development.

SDG Indicators: Official list of SDG indicators. See Sendai Framework target (e) as shared, repeated SDG indicators 1.5.3/11.b.2/13.1.1
https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/indicators/indicators-list/
See more including related documents at: http://saarc-sec.org/areas_of_cooperation/area_detail/environment-natural-disasters-andbiotechnology/click-for-details_6

16

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------



Share their country’s lessons and recommended approaches for developing and
implementing national DRR strategies in coherence with development, climate change and
sectoral plans and strategies.



Identify gaps and opportunities to ‘review and re-align’ current DRR strategies and
implementation action plans.



Learn from global disaster risk reduction case studies, including governance, finance and
planning.



Strengthen understanding of the institutional arrangements and partnerships needed for
Sendai Framework implementation at national and/or regional, local and sectoral level.



Plan the way forward at regional and national level to scale up collaboration to reduce the
risks and impacts of disasters.

Expected Outcomes
After completing this workshop, the participants will be able to:


‘Make the case for risk-informed development and Disaster risk Reduction ’: share
deepened understanding of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (goal,
outcome, targets, priorities, principles) as an imperative for addressing climate change and
sustainable development.



Understand recommended approaches and requirements for developing, implementing and
monitoring national and local DRR strategies in line with Sendai Framework Target E
related to SDGs 1, 11 and 13.



Use or adapt the workshop tools and approach to ‘review and re-align’ ongoing strategic
planning, implementation and monitoring processes at various levels.



Consider DRR case studies to highlight and inspire implementation mechanisms.



Understand mechanisms and approaches for implementation (financing, M&E, capacity
development, legal

and regulatory frameworks, partnerships and institutional

arrangements) of DRR strategies, is enhanced among Member states.


Identify ways forward to update and align the SAARC regional DRM framework to the
Sendai Framework and the region contexts and needs.

See inter-sectoral recommended list of participants in UNDRR GETI Standard Operating Procedures

17

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Agenda
Day One
9:00 - 9:30

9th July 2019
Arrival and registration
Opening Session

9:30 – 10:00

Welcome and Keynote Speech: SAARC DMC or SAARC Secretariat
Introductory Remarks: United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

10:00 - 10:15

10:15 – 10:45

10:45 – 11:45

Tea/coffee break and group photo
Session 1: Understanding Disaster Risk and Disaster Risk
Management: Concepts and Trends
Presentation: Concepts, Global and Regional Trends in Disaster Risk
Reduction – UNDRR ROAP
Q&A
Session 2: Global and Regional Frameworks in Coherence: Reducing
Risk for Sustainable Development
Presentation: Building Coherence between the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 the 2030 Agenda and the Paris
Agreement – UNDRR GETI
Meaning and implications of Sendai alignment will be discussed
(Unpacking the 10 key elements of Sendai Alignment)
Presentation: Overview and Status of SAARC Comprehensive
Framework on Disaster Management – SAARC DMC
Q&A
Session 3: Disaster Risk Reduction, Climate Change Adaptation and
Sustainable Development Implementation in the SAARC region
Presentation: Overview of Regional and National Strategies in Asia
Pacific – UNDRR ROAP

11:45 – 13:00

13:00 – 14:00

Facilitated Round Table Discussion:
Experience sharing on developing and implementing DRR Strategies
in Alignment with the Sendai Framework, in coherence with Climate
Change Adaptation & Sustainable Development – national and local
levels (All SAARC Member States: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka)
Country experience and challenges shared may include: coordination,
coherence, integration of DRR into development planning, legal and
regulatory frameworks, monitoring, financing, sectoral implementation,
partnership, local engagement.
Lunch

18

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Session 4: Getting to know/Refresher and using the tools for DRM
self-assessment, planning and monitoring: Sendai Framework
Monitor and Custom Indicators
14:00 – 14:30

14:30 – 15:30
15: 30
15:30 – 17:30
17:30
Day Two
9:00 - 9:30

Presentations:
-Overview of the methodology, approach and tools for developing a
National DRR Strategy and Action Plan
-Sendai Framework monitor and custom indicators– UNDRR GETI
Working Group Discussion: Identifying DRR/DRM implementation
gaps in current DRR strategies or related sectoral/regional strategies
and plans
Working tea/coffee served
Working Group Discussion (continued): Identifying DRR/DRM
implementation gaps in current DRR strategies or related
sectoral/regional strategies and plans
Closing the day: What to expect tomorrow
10th July 2019
Day 1 Recap and Day 2 Overview – UNDRR
Plenary Discussion: Presenting Day 1 group work outputs
Session 5: Case studies for DRR Planning and Implementation
Priority 1: Understanding Disaster Risk; Priority 2: Strengthening
Disaster Risk Governance to Manage Disaster Risk with links to SDGs
Presentation: Mainstreaming DRR and CCA into Sectoral
Programmes for Social Economic Development with Case Studies –
UNDRR GETI
(e.g. Risk Information, Governance, Climate Change Adaptation)

9:30 – 10:30

10:30 – 10:45
10:45 – 11:45

Plenary: Q&A and country experience sharing: (All SAARC Member
States: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka)
 TBC Case studies from SAARC MS on Priority 1: Disaster Loss
Databases (Sri Lanka); Risk assessment and decision support tools
(Pakistan)
 TBC Case studies from SAARC MS on Priority 2: Disaster risk
governance (Nepal on their new legislation; Afghanistan on new
DRR strategy); ADPC on media engagement; India (private sector
engagement – ARISE)
Tea/Coffee break
Session 5 continued: Case studies for DRR Planning and
Implementation
Priority 3: Investing in Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience, Priority 4:
Enhancing Disaster Preparedness for Effective Response, and to “Build

19

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Back Better” in Recovery, Rehabilitation and Reconstruction with links
to SDGs
Presentation: Mainstreaming DRR and CCA into Sectoral
Programmes for Social Economic Development with Case Studies –
UNDRR GETI
(e.g. Finance, Environment, Critical Infrastructure, Housing and Land
Use Planning, Livelihood Protection, Health)
Plenary: Q&A and country experience sharing: (All SAARC Member
States: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka)
 TBC Case studies from SAARC MS on Priority 3: Disaster
resilience infrastructure (India); Comprehensive School Safety
(Save the Children or Plan International India); DRR in WASH
(UNICEF India); mainstreaming DRR into development planning
(Maldives)
TBC Case studies from SAARC MS on Priority 4: Preparedness: Early
Warning Systems (India – Odisha); Bhutan (Floods – Early Warning
Systems)
Focus Session: Recovery and build back better on
11:45 - 13: 00

13:00 – 14:00

Presentation: Post- disaster housing reconstruction in Asia Pacific
paper - Presenter: ADPC; Discussant: Nepal Reconstruction Authority.
Plenary discussion: Post-disaster recovery issues in SAARC countries:
Key challenges and opportunities to BBB in regard to housing and
infrastructures sectors.
Lunch
Focus Session: Financing DRR Strategies
Presentation: Implementing DRR strategies: financing the
implementation of DRR strategies, regional mechanisms – UNDRR
GETI and ROAP

14:00 – 15:30

Presentation: Assessing financial risk from disasters and strategies for
financial protection and applying layered approach to disaster risk
management. (GFDRR Asia)
Presentation: Disaster risk financing: catastrophic insurance
mechanisms experiences and lessons learned in Asia Pacific (ADB)
Plenary and experiences sharing by SAARC MS:
 Climate and DRR blended finance in Bangladesh (TBC)
 Sri Lanka disaster risk financial protection options (TBC)
 Nepal financing disaster recovery (TBC)
 India: financing DRR (TBC)
 Others: addressing key questions on DRM budget allocation
systems; DRR funding mechanisms; private sector financing

20

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

for DRR; climate and disaster risk insurance schemas.
15:30
15:30 – 17:30

17:30

Q&A
Working tea/coffee served
Session 6: Reviewing and Re-Aligning Regional/Sectoral Strategy and
Plans for Resilient Development
Working Group Exercise: Reviewing/Re-aligning the Regional and/or
National Strategy and Sectoral Plans, Revising the Action Plan (All
Sendai Priorities)
Closing the day: What to expect tomorrow
11th July 2019

Day Three
9:30 – 9:45

Day 2 Recap and Day 3 Overview – UNDRR

9:45 – 10:45

Plenary Discussion: Presenting Day 2 group work outputs (All Priorities)

10:45 – 11:00

Q&A
Tea/coffee break

11:00 – 12:00

12:00 – 13:00

Session 7: Implementation of the DRR strategy: Roles, Responsibilities
and Partnerships
Presentation: Multi-sectoral engagement in DRR: UN partners approach
(WHO, WFP, UNICEF and FAO – Regional or India-based offices) (TBC)
Plenary Discussion: countries to share experiences on partnership
strategies on DRR (i.e. public-private sector collaboration; academia,
sciences and technology collaboration; regional and transboundary
collaboration; civil society engagement in DRR).
Session 8: Strategy and Action Plan Monitoring, Evaluation and FollowUp
Presentation: Setting Indicators for Monitoring and Evaluating Strategies
and action plans. UNDRR
Q&A and country presentation/experience sharing (All SAARC Member
States invited to share examples of their DRR Strategy results and outcome
indicators and monitoring systems)

13:00 – 14:00

Lunch

14:00 – 15:30

Session 9: Developing SMART Indicators, Completing the Action Plan
towards Sectoral/Regional Alignment
Working Group Exercise: Developing/Refining Indicators for the Action
Plan (All Sendai Priorities) Plenary Discussion: Presenting group work
outputs

15:30

Working tea/coffee served

21

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

15:30 – 16:30

Session 10: Promoting Alignment and Linkages Between National and
sub-national DRR Strategies: Development and Implementation
Presentations: Making Cities Resilient: Tools for Local DRR Planning and
Implementation – UNDRR
Making Cities Resilient, Words into Action Implementation Guide for Local
Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Strategies and the Disaster
Resilience Scorecard for Cities
Presentation: Bangladesh Making Cities Resilient – Bangladesh national
DRR focal point (TBC)
Presentation: GIDM and Ahmedabad Municipal corporation – subnational perspectives (TBC)
Q&A and other country experience sharing

16:30 – 17:00

Session 12: Planning the Way Forward: Aligning you Current Plans and
Strategies on DRR at regional/national and sub-national level and scaling
up Sendai Framework implementation and
Presentation: The Strategic Approach to Capacity Development Strategy
to Support Implementation of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction – UNDRR
Presentation and Facilitated Plenary Discussion – SAARC Secretariat and
SAARC DMC

17:00-17:30

Closing Session
Workshop evaluation, closing Remarks and presentation of certificates –
SAARC and UNDRR

22

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Day 1: 9th July 2019
Address by Director, SDMC(IU)
Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU) welcomed all
the participants and resource persons. He expressed
his views regarding data management technology,
sharing of best practices, and emphasized on finding
the gaps and issues in implementation of Sendai
Framework for DRR. He further added to invest in
early warning and planning. To prepare a template
and identify and focus on gaps to be filled up.

Session 1: Understanding Disaster Risk
and

Disaster

Risk

Management:

Concepts and Trends By Dr. Animesh
Kumar, UNDRR
Dr. Animesh explained the concept that hazards
can be natural but disaster cannot be natural. He
presented the statistics of last 30 years reflecting
the magnitude of losses, especially in the South
Asian region, with flood and storm being the
most prominent causative factors. He shed light on the drivers of risk, i.e., changing environment,
human induced climate change, multi-dimensional vulnerability (the complexity and dynamism
therein) and the most important aspect that risk is systemic in nature and requires a systemic
approach- systematic disaster risk governance i.e., coherence and synergy between the relevant
departments. He discussed that financing in DRR maybe a good way forward but questions like
dedicated DRR funding, budgetary allocation at the national or the local level still remains.

Session 2: Global and Regional Frameworks in Coherence: Reducing Risk for
Sustainable Development

23

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Building

Coherence

between

the

Sendai

Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 20152030 the 2030 Agenda and the Paris Agreement –
UNDRR GETI
She explained that amidst all the discussions on
climate change adaptation and disaster risk
management happening separately, a lot of things
are being done and much more needs to be done. Tools are being developed to address the
commitments of the regional framework; there are numerous stakeholders working at different
levels, starting from the regional level right down to the local level. Tools of accounting for the
losses that have been or could be averted by risk informed development planning are present.
Governance mechanism need to take heed of these practical necessities.
She discussed on the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) experience on enabling
collaboration for Disaster Risk Reduction. ASEAN Agreement on Disaster Management and
Emergency Response was signed in July 2005, and has an objective of reducing disaster losses
and jointly respond to emergencies where AHA (ASEAN Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian
Assistance) works as the coordination centre.

Overview and Status of SAARC Comprehensive Framework on Disaster
Management – SAARC DMC
Director SDMC(IU) explained about the SAARC
Comprehensive

Framework

for

Disaster

Management which was articulated in 2006. Its
objectives address many avenues; starting from
sharing of best practices to creating a regional
response mechanism. The framework has outlined
six priorities of actions for the period of 2006 – 2015.
It includes priorities way ahead of their times;
inclusion and use of ICT in DM which is now a hot
cake, has been a priority for SAARC DMC since 2006.

24

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

He expressed that there is a need to align the present regional framework and update it to include
the global frameworks and guiding principles.
He also discussed about the challenges; SDMC is an interim unit with many centres merged with
the SDMC, thus, the volume of work is huge. Apart from this the usual hindrances of lack of
financial and technical support remains. The process is also tedious; one needs to get inputs on the
draft, approval from the member countries, i.e., the changes need to go through the SAARC
process.

Session 3: Disaster Risk Reduction, Climate Change Adaptation and Sustainable
Development Implementation in the SAARC region
A discussion with all the member states was held in which each country gave following
information:
Afghanistan: Discussed the four-year action plan adhering to the elements of SFDRR. Mentioned
challenges like lack of financial support; however, the training and capacity building dimension is
something that needs to be commended. A National Platform is being formulated which would
align the national government to the needs of DRR.
Bangladesh: Schemes and projects are being implemented and are being piloted by various
government ministries. There exists a mechanism of fund transfer from the central government to
the local government; the projects and schemes are being implemented at the local level by the
local government which includes officials as well as elected representatives. The achievements
can be seen in the way they acted in Fani. There lurks numerous gaps and challenges and maybe
there is a need to not dwell on them but move forward resolving them.
Bhutan: DM Act of Bhutan, 2013, is perhaps one of the achievements that needs to be mentioned.
This Act puts in place the governmental mechanism of disaster management. All the districts have
a well-established mechanism. The roadmap to risk reduction 2018-2023 of Bhutan is a recent
development in this regard. Focus is being put on issues like carbon neutrality, climate smart and
disaster resilient development etc. Efforts are also being put to mainstream DRR by ways of
legislations.

25

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

India: Acts, policies and plans are all in place. Role and responsibility matrix at the central and
the state level has been worked out, which has been put down in the national plan.
A long process of stakeholder consultation has taken place; coherence with international agendas
and agreements, financing to mainstream DRR and social inclusion are the new things that are
being brought in the new updated plan. Target A and B are well achieved; Target D and Target E
are being worked upon vehemently. Other mentionable activities are:
a. Seismic micro-zonation for all cities in Zone 4 & 5.
b. SGM sensors in the Himalayan region.
c. EWS for lightning with lead time of 48 hours. State interventions in this regard are also
commendable.
d. Doppler Weather Radars 35 now, more to be installed.
Maldives: Disaster Management Centre (semi-autonomous) established in December, 2018, as
per the Act. DRR to be incorporated in every sector; however, there is a lack of DRR strategy.
Vision 2020 is an effort towards bringing about coherence amongst all the agendas and
agreements.
The capacity building through the CBDRM programs is really effective. The challenges are the
lack of existence of a planning ministry to provide coordination at the helm; however, the new
government has taken a step towards this. A national development plan is being formulated where
DRR and CCA are being taken into consideration. Holistic, integrated risk management is the
approach with coordination of all agencies. Special plans for different regions / zones in the nation
are also being prepared to ensure planned, inclusive development.
Nepal: Acts, guidelines, action plans, strategies are in place. Just like the three-tiered structure of
governance starting from the PM to the mayor at the local level, there is a provision of three
different funds at three levels which is sourced from the budgetary allocations as well as donations.
EOCs are operational at national, regional, and district level. 2009 – 2024 plan talks about disaster
resilient Nepal. Sendai+ approach is something that needs to be mentioned, which is SFDRR plus
the local needs are being taken care of.
Pakistan: Programs on afforestation, climate change adaptations are in full swing. Government is
working towards creating resilience; starting from problems of groundwater to climate smart

26

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

agricultural practices. DRR inclusive education system, poverty alleviation programs, alignment
of DRR policies with SFDRR, SDGs, 5 Year annual plan, Vision documents are some of the things
being done.
Sri Lanka: Policies, laws, acts are in place. Three national policies in place; coordinating
committees are at all levels. A lot of efforts are being put in aggregating data; data about losses
and damages which shows there has been a reduction by 50% in terms of Target A to D. Target E
& F increased by 80% while Target F is at its full potential. Sendai Secretariat setup to ensure
Sendai monitoring through different ministries. 15 Technical Working Committees, 15 Clusters
and different agencies have been setup to ensure the data is correct and appropriate. Sri Lanka is
positive about attainment of Sendai targets.

Session 4:

Getting to know/Refresher and using the tools for DRM self-

assessment, planning and monitoring: Sendai Framework Monitor and Custom
Indicators
In this session aligning national and local DRR strategies with the 10 key elements of Words into
Action were discussed.
The session focused on the fact that self- assessment of Target E is extremely necessary as it helps
a country to understand the true character of its national strategies and then local strategies can
emulate the national strategy. Light was shed on the global and regional platforms and the way
UNDRR functions at the global and regional level.

Group Exercise
Asia Regional Plan: Action Plan 2018-2020 which
came out of AMCDRR 2018 formed the basis of the
group exercise. The Action Plan has ‘actions needed’
and the ‘progress made’. Issues for countries to
consider when seeking alignment among DRR and
other policy arenas, derived from lessons learned and

27

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

case studies, found in GAR 2019, was discussed. The interlinkages between SFDRR and SDG was
also highlighted.
In this exercise key implementation challenges in country were discussed and noted and how
the SAARC Regional Framework can support, with the help of SFDRR at global and local
level, implementation strategies and the Asia Regional Plan.

Day 2: 10th July 2019
Session 5: Case studies for DRR Planning and Implementation
All the four priorities of action set in the Sendai
Framework were discussed in detail. Points were
discussed on the challenges faced in achieving
the priorities at local, national and regional level
and also the areas that can be strengthen to
achieve the priorities.
Each group was assigned different priorities.
Also, each group discussed a little about all the
priorities which manifests the systemic nature of risks and risk management.
Mr. Taneja, who observed the discussion outputs, emphasized that use of technology, data
management and sharing are cross-cutting issues that is a challenge in all the priorities.
Mainstreaming DRR principles in development is a truly risk governance issue. Investment
can be in different forms; investment in capacity building, investment in resilient
infrastructure, investment in early warning etc. He suggested that it will possibly be better to
have a planning template to help come up with the regional / national level plan.
Case studies from SAARC member states were presented on Priority 2: Disaster risk
governance (Nepal presented on their new legislation; Afghanistan presented on new DRR
strategy);

28

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Role of Media by Aslam Pervaiz
Mr. Aslam talked about the Jakarta Declaration that has identified media as a stakeholder in
DRM. He discussed that there is a need to translate, interpret and contextualise the agendas,
the science behind disasters etc. and programmes to build capacity of journalists to motivate
reports on disaster risks, i.e., Reporting on Disaster Risk and Making People Aware (RedMap).
He also discussed the challenges like trust deficit between stakeholders, the culture of reporting
disasters as an event, lack of skills to find newsworthy stories during peace times, lack of
capacity to read data and turn into stories. The role of media is immense; misinterpretation of
information, getting lost in translation may add to the worries rather than helping in calming
down the situation. The way forward is to establish faith, trust among the journalists and the
officials on the other side; establishes a transparency.

Case Studies from countries
Presentation from Pakistan
The National Disaster Management Plan has 10
priority areas and execution guidelines have been
laid down for the conduct of Multi-Hazard
Vulnerability Risk Assessment (MHVRA) so
that all relevant stakeholders can take part in it.
Based upon the MHVRA, a decision support
system has been devised. The outcome is in the form of a visualization which facilitates easy
decision making.
Presentation from Sri Lanka
The practice of maintaining disaster loss database is in place since 1972 that covers houses
damaged and lost, the extent of damage; agricultural losses; infrastructure damage. Based on
this recovery and rehabilitation grants are given, which may come from insurance schemes or
the government.
Presentation from India
Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (DRI)- A report from ADB states that 26 billion USD is
required in Asia for implementation and upkeep of attainment of SDGs from 2016 to 2030.

29

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

AMCDRR 2016, in Delhi, initiated the concept of DRI which was followed by a wider scope
of discussion with all stakeholders like ADB, AIIB and even academia. This primarily caters
to Target D but affects all the preceding Targets. A subsequent discussion was held in
AMCDRR in 2018. Many issues like risk transfer, micro-insurance were discussed along with
policies of reconstruction and rehabilitation policies. In March, 2019, the 2nd conference was
conducted in New Delhi and it focussed on sharing of best practices, collaborative research in
DRI, building upon new technologies and common learnings and lastly a platform to share.
The outcome document mentions setting up of interim secretariat of DRI and it will work on
issues like finance mechanisms, research innovation and would be run for 3 years by UNDRR
and Government of India.
The political influence is immense; the level of involvement and commitment is something to
look forward.
Presentation from AHA Centre
One of the core business of AHA is coordination at three levels; strategic (ministerial level),
operational (at the capital country of the affected nation) and field coordination.
The AHA Centre provides a platform for information sharing among ASEAN member states
and partners as well as data intelligence and analysis services. There exists a web-EOC which
facilitates real-time exchange of data and information like flash updates, situation updates.
AHA Centre is also into Resource Management; manages the database of standby resources of
ASEAN member states; ASEAN-ERAT is an official resource of ASEAN managed by the
AHA Centre; it arrives in the affected country within 24 hours.
There exists an ASEAN Joint Disaster Response Plan (AJDRP) with three disaster scenarios.
There is DELSA which manages a stockpile of relief items and it is located in Subang,
Malaysia.
ASEAN Agreement of Disaster Response is a legally binding document which is not only
adopted by the 10 nations but it also needs to be ratified by the individual nations as per their
legislative mandate. Perhaps, the SAARC framework might need such a revolutionary change
to practically implement the concept of Regional Response Mechanism.

30

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Presentation from Kerala
The story of Kerala Floods of 2018 is a story of the triumph of human spirit. All the 14 districts
were affected and the disaggregated data is also available. The concept of volunteerism became
an epitome; army of fishermen set a huge example. A damage assessment of 3,30,000 damaged
houses were conducted; the approach was crowd-sourced damage assessment, owner driven
reconstruction and damage magnitude linked cash grant. A vulnerability linked housing
relocation scheme was also launched. Crowd-sourced inundation depth mapping and marking
was also carried out; 13,000 flood water level points have been geo-tagged. In terms of building
back better, Kerala has started- Nava Keralam: Green and Resilient Kerala, Rebuild based on
the recommendation of PDNA and new standards of disaster relief has been set, Training of
civil forces and community based DRM programs are also being carried out to prepare village
level DM Plans, Participatory decentralized planning is at the core of all that has been done
since the disaster.
Presentation from Nepal
Nepal Reconstruction Authority (NRA) setup after the Gorkha Earthquake, 2015, only for
reconstruction, rehabilitation and uplifting of livelihood of the victims. There is an elaborate
institutional setup; Consultation Council (Chaired by PM), Directive Committee (Chaired by
PM), Executive Committee (CEO NRA) and local bodies. There are Central Disaster
Management Fund, Provincial Disaster Management Fund, Local Disaster Management Fund.
However, the challenges are also immense like GIS open source technology, adequate search
and rescue equipment, DRR mainstreaming, etc. The way forwards have also been laid down
and is being worked upon.

Presentation from Maldives
The National Development Plan was perhaps the missing link in mainstreaming DRR in
development planning. The emergence of this plan will help in bridging the gaps and develop
a coherence amongst all the frameworks.
The challenges are primarily inter-sectoral coordination, lack of prioritisation of DRR at policy
level, limited capacity & resources, data management etc. However, there exists opportunities
too. DRR and CCA has been mainstreamed in the national development plan and strategies.

31

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

The importance of decentralization in DRM expresses itself in the way of having island disaster
management plans (57 islands already have such plans).
Presentation by Paul Rosenberg
Mr. Paul discussed about International Recovery Platform (IRP) that is composed of 17
organisations, agencies etc. It focusses on recovering with greater resilience, improving
standards, improving urban planning and land use, and progressing in the dimensions of
development (post disaster building back is also taken as an opportunity to foster peace,
establish gender equality). He explained Build Back Better; housing forms 80% of the built
environment thus, half of the recovery cost flows into construction of shelters, housing repairs
etc. The psychological effects are also significant. In fact, the longer people are exposed to
shelters which are temporary and not their home, longer is the entire recovery process.

Presentation by Aslam Perwaiz
A brief description of the document on reconstruction and rehabilitation prepared by ADPC
was carried out. Key lessons learnt were discussed like integration of housing with community
infrastructure, support for livelihoods and the local economy, sustained engagement, multistakeholder engagement, role of built environment professionals, owner driven approach,
success in difficult contexts like high poverty or remoteness of location.
Some issues were also highlighted like the importance of linking physical products with social
and institutional processes, not to give the owners a new process but a choice of means and
support etc.
The focus should be on building back stronger, building back faster and building back more
inclusively.
Panel Discussion
In this session various learnings were discussedLearning from the experience of ADB in
Pakistan, owner driven approach has indeed
benefits that needs to be realised.

32

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

The experience of Fiji, owner driven approach, adds to the learnings; it is pragmatic and
perhaps addresses issues which are larger than the scope it was meant to address. There are
existing issues too; training of masons, policy formulation, land owning issues etc. but there
are no such issues which can’t be addressed.
From the experiences at Kandla, it was realised that injuries are mostly due to the failing
structures. There is a need to incorporate socio-technical processes in owner driven approach
of reconstruction and only then such approach can be faster and more efficient. A mid-way
approach is to have transition shelters, i.e., an addition of permanency to temporary shelters.
The Government of India is coming up with a guideline on the same.
Experiences from Nepal were shared by representatives from JICA in Kathmandu; eligibility
conditions, mechanisms, legal framework, institutions, human resources, training of masons,
engineers and inspectors etc. At the 2nd anniversary it was realised that only 20% started
reconstruction. It was found that cash disbursed was inefficient, lack of knowledge and the
materials. This led to the start of community mobilisation program to build on the trust and
fraternity found in the communities of Nepal. Indigenous masons were identified to foster the
trust and ownership of the villagers. The 3rd year (2017-2018) saw a huge increase in the
reconstructions. On the 4th anniversary it was found that many people still could not start
construction; these were the people who were the most vulnerable. Setting up mechanisms,
legal frameworks are never enough; intangible dimensions also needs to be considered. Social
dimensions like solidarity needs to be harnessed and leveraged.
Experiences from Kutch: 600 houses across numerous villages (120) were built. The fund came
from UNDP, the technology from IITR and masons were brought in from Latur. These model
houses were built while giving hands-on training to the local people and later the completed
houses were given to the most vulnerable groups, destitute etc. Decision making and
disbursement of relief funds were streamlined by cutting short the decision-making process.

33

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Presentation by Steve Goldfinch
Mr. Steve talked about ADB Strategy 2030 and its
coherence amongst all the agendas and frameworks;
most importantly, disaster resilience has been included
as one of the seven operational priorities. A layered
approach is very important in this regard depending on
the severity and frequency of the events; from DRR to
risk retention to risk transfer to international assistance
which spanned across high frequency to low frequency
on the X-axis and low to high severity on the Y-axis. ADB loan modalities and sources of
financing for disaster risk management were highlighted. There exists a proposition of
contingent disaster financing (CDF). Funds would be disbursed in the event of a pre-agreed
trigger event. The features include policy matrix based on reforms to strengthen disaster
resilience, post program partnerships framework detailing future reform targets and planned
ADB assistance and IMF Assessment Letter (macroeconomic framework).
The Country Diagnostic Assessment Reviews the current disaster risk financing landscape and
enabling environment. The focus is on risk transfer instruments. There are examples like that
of Philippine City Disaster Insurance Pool which provides for early recovery.
Pakistan National Disaster Risk Management Fund is a multi-donor fund and it comes from
ADB and Governments of Pakistan, Australia and Switzerland. The investments are aligned
with NDMP, National Flood Protection Plan – IV.
The countries are divided into Groups A, B, C depending on their economic status and based
on these groups they can access regular grants or a combination of regular grants and DRR
related funds.

Session 6: Reviewing and Re-Aligning Regional/Sectoral Strategy and Plans
for Resilient Development
In this session, India’s provisions of National/ State Disaster Response Fund (NDRF/ SDRF)
and Prime Minister’s Relief Fund which goes above and beyond the previously mentioned
funds, was discussed. India has projects like NCRMP which is worth 4800 Crores. A new

34

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

concept of Flexi Funds has also come in. Other schemes which have been dove-tailed with
DRR strategies are- PMAY (Houses built are hazard resilient), PM Irrigation Program,
PMFBY (Agri Insurance), and PM Livestock Insurance Scheme.

Case of Sri Lanka
Insurance and fast disbursal form the core of resilient recovery.
Agriculture insurance- The moderator highlighted that insurance is also a way of prevention;
assuming that EWS triggers a Contingency Fund which triggers the scaling up of existing
safety-net programs. So, if the contingency fund mechanism is composed of these three
components and works in the illustrated way, insurance may become a measure of prevention:
1. Mainstreaming DRR into development planning: Separate funding mechanism of DRR and
development planning may not work out. Funds to develop needs to ensure risk screening and
individual funds of disaster prevention may work out for existing developments.
2. Role of social safety net programs
3. Risk assessment: Incredibly important to understand what risks to accept and what risks to
be ready for.

Day 3: 11th July 2019
Outputs of group exercise
Priority 1:
For the priority 1, the outputs were as follows:
1. Lack of proper knowledge sharing; there is a need
to have a platform to share knowledge and an
institutional mechanism of risk assessment.
2. Lack of data which can be taken care of by
endorsement of cross-border MoUs & regional

35

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

platforms can be leveraged to share knowledge,
data, information and even experiences.
Use of satellites by neighbouring countries to
monitor events like cyclones, droughts etc. can be
facilitated through MoUs. MoUs are primarily part
of governance but they are also important in
working towards Priority 1.
Priority 2:
It was discussed to have an agreement amongst the SAARC countries for basic minimum
support and policy designing: example, it may be learnt from how EU Flood Directive works
so as to understand the true essence of risk governance.
1. SAARC development fund should be revitalized.
2. Resource mobilisation and joint exercises should be carried out.
3. Sharing good practices, collaborative researches must be undertaken.
4. Policies on water conservation, biodiversity, sustainable livelihood practices should be
worked out surpassing the geographical boundaries.
5. Promote the use of advanced technologies, processes etc. for detection, monitoring and
better early warning, which would enhance decision making required for effective risk
governance.
6. Regional governance is particularly important in cross-boundary events.
7. The role of civil society and corporate sector also needs to be emphasised upon.
Priority 3:
The outputs for priority 3 were,
1. To have a regional financing mechanism
2. Innovations to foster indigenous knowledge
3. Providing people options based on advanced
technologies

36

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

4. Finance for education and awareness to maximize resilience
5. Investing in disaster resilience as per the SFDRR is more than finance; it’s social
investment too.
Priority 4:
The outputs for priority 3 were,
1. Standardize data management; Nepal has
launched a disaster risk reduction portal
which promotes data sharing and free
dissemination.
2. Regional recovery framework and predisaster preparedness and recovery plan.
3. Capacity for regional preparedness and
response
4. Regional early warning system Centres
5. Contextualization of international recovery frameworks
6. Good examples of recovery and rehabilitation were seen in Latur and Kutch earthquake
but there is a stark lack of documentation of the same.

Presentation by WFP: Food security and DRR
Understanding impacts of disasters and climate change on food security is key to resilience.
Translation and contextualization of complex DRR concepts is very important to generate
actionable plans and investments. There are numerous tools like PRISM (Platform for Real
Time Information and Situation Monitoring) that is used to provide timely and appropriate
assistance to decision makers. The basis of the tool is simple; economic vulnerability coupled
with drought exposure shows the impacts.
Forecast based financing: The forecasts are tailored to predict the potential impact on food
insecure people and their livelihoods, according to the cropping seasons. However, all of this
depends on the capacity to forecast, existing SoPs and coordination with key stakeholders
based on the agreed upon trigger level.

37

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

The need of the hours is more agile, responsive/dynamic and grounded EWS, better
preparedness and responses.
Panel Discussion: Civil Society Organisation
Partnerships
In the panel discussion, importance of CSOs was
discussed. Over the years CSOs have moved from
confrontational to constructional mode. The
SFDRR mentions the whole-of-society approach
which sets the tone for a discussion on the role of
CSOs.
Local CSOs can play a powerful role in helping
CBOs to map their vulnerabilities and risks. A
system

of

providing

information

from

Government to the public and vice versa needs to
be thought of; SETU is one of the good examples.
Village Knowledge Centres by M. S. Swami
Nathan Foundation shares information on tides,
fishing zones etc. Local leaders are very influential and there is a need to cultivate them as
well.
Partnership with private sector: A different perspective: In this discussion it was
highlighted that losses of the private sector are much higher than the public sector; this shows
that when the private sector is itself not prepared; how can they probably help the government
in building resilience? More than 60% of the SMEs vanish within 4 days of a disaster, 30%
never come back. Corporate sector as a donor is equally vulnerable.
However, on the other side, industries/ manufacturing sectors are also responsible for the
degradation of ecosystems and enhancing disaster risks. It is important to look at the private
sector engagement in DRR.

38

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Session: Strategy and action plan monitoring, evaluation and follow-up
Monitoring is the periodic information of the progress on achieving targets while evaluation is
the observed change that comes after the process has been implemented either completely or
in phases. Indicators need to be SMART (Specific, Measurable, Attributable, Relevant /
Realistic, Time-bound).
It can be achieved by breaking down the strategy into objectives, actions and indicators. Also,
targets can also be broken down into indicators and sub-indicators. However, baseline data is
always required for effective M&E.

Presentation by UNICEF
UNICEF presented the case of Bihar, which has a roadmap for DRR at State level which
outlines the policies and practices that needs to be adopted, clear directions for DRR actions
and agenda for 15 years; in fact, the government reinforced its commitment through dedicated
allocation of resources. Depending on the Roadmap, Action Plan has been prepared for 16
departments through state level workshop, VDMP template has also been prepared. A lot of
learnings come from the process of development of the Roadmap but this brought about high
ownership amongst key stakeholders and it also helped in identifying critical gaps in policy
and institution arrangements.
The Central Government also played an important role in the process of development of the
Roadmap.

Presentation by IIPHG
Over the years, the number of deaths due to heat
wave only increased. In 2010, Ahmedabad
experienced an unprecedented heatwave incident.
More than 800 people died in just a week (20 – 27th
May, 2010). This was the first time when it was
shown that in a tropical / sub-tropical country heatwaves can be a major hazard. Pakistan heat-wave
of 2016 was also an event to be mentioned. ‘Bat drop’ incidents also became frequent. Heat-

39

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

wave combined with shortage of water spells a greater disaster. Thus, came the Heat Action
Plans, awareness, building capacity of medical communities, reducing heat exposure and
promoting adaptive measures. Other measures like changing housing and area planning were
also taken into account. The assessment of the impact is based on the comparative analysis of
mortality, cases reported in 5 municipal hospitals. The key lessons are involvement of local
leadership, local data and improvement of the plan throughout the years.
It was also realised that issues like Urban Heat Island also needs to be considered while coming
up with Action Plans as without any permanent interventions, which are primarily limited to
Band-Aid approach, the solutions proposed would be futile.

Valedictory Session

Feedback from Participants
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10

84

84

77

83

89

88

81

75

Group Photograph

40

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

List of Participants
S.No.

Country

1

Afghanistan

Particulars
Name : Mr. Mohammad Naser Akabri
State Ministry for Disaster
Organization :
Management
Email : ird.andma@gmail.com
Contact No : +93 786210551
Whatsapp No. :

2

Afghanistan

3

Afghanistan

4

Bangladesh

5

Bangladesh

6

Bangladesh

7

Bhutan

Name : Mr. Abolfazl Ayati
Policy & Coordination, State
Organization : Ministry of Disaster
Management
Email : abolfazl.ayati2005@gmail. com
Contact No : +93 789976252
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Ahmad Reshad Aziz
Organization : Office of Head of Staff, ANDMA
Email : reshad13457@gmail.com
Contact No : +93 780786969
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. K. M. Anisul Islam
Ministry of Disaster
Organization :
Management and Relief
Email : kmanis1966@gmail.com
Contact No :
880-1711001421
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Md. Salah Uddin-Al-Wadud
Department of Disaster
Organization :
Management, Boalia, Rajshahi
Email : waduddm@gmail.com
Contact No :
880-174088430
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Md. Abdul Halim
Ministry of Disaster
Organization :
management and Relief
Email : abd ulhalim1969@gmail.com
Contact No : 880-1552383036
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Ms. Wangchuk Dema
Organization : RED, GNHC
Email : wdema@gnhc.gov.bt

41

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

Contact No :
Whatsapp No. :

8

India

9

India

10

India

11

India

12

India

13

Maldives

14

India

+975 1713386

Name : Dr. Pavan Kumar Singh
Organization : NDMA, MHA, Delhi, India
drpavansingh@gmail.com
Email :
ja.ops@ndma.gov.in
Contact No : 9811022975
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Victor Mecwan
Organization : GSDMA, Gujarat
Email : aceo-gsdma@gujarat.gov.in
Contact No : +91 9909973692
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Prayag Raj Gupta
Department of Economic
Organization :
Affairs, MoF New delhi
Email : prayag.gupta@nic.in
Contact No :
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr.Repaul Kanji
Gujarat Institute of Disaster
Organization :
Management (GIDM)
Email : rspm-gidm@gujarat.gov.in
Contact No :
+91 7574802209
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Sushant Sahoo
Organization : Unicef
Email : conuni-gidm@gujarat.gov.in
Contact No :
+91 9479037433
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Ashish Sharma
Department of Economic
Organization :
Affairs, MoF,New Delhi
Email : ashish.sharma70@nic.in
Contact No : +960 7920309
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Ms. Aminath Izdhiha Rushdy
National Disaster Management
Organization :
Authority
Email : izdhiha.rushdy@ndma.gov.mv
Contact No : +960 7920309
Whatsapp No. :

42

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

15

Maldives

16

Maldives

Name : Ms. Zeeniya Riyaz
Ministry of Planning and
Organization :
Infrastructure
zeeniya.riyaz@plaruring.gov.
Email :
mv
Contact No : +960 7756010
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Ms.Shahdha
Ministry of Planning and
Organization :
Infrastructure
Email : shahdha@planning.gov. mv
Contact No : +960 9700169
Whatsapp No. :

17

Maldives

Name : Ms.Shahdha
Ministry of Planning and
Organization :
Infrastructure
Email : shahdha@planning.gov. mv
Contact No : +960 9700169

Whatsapp No. :

18

Nepal

19

Nepal

20

Nepal

21

Pakistan

Name
Organization
Email
Contact No
Whatsapp No.
Name

:
:
:
:
:
:

Mr, Bishnu Prasad Acharya
Ministry of Home Affairs
bishnuacharya@gmail.com
00977-985 7065579

Mr. Ram Bandhu Sharma
Ministry of Federdl Affoirs and
Organization :
General Admin
sharmarambandhu1@gm
Email :
ail.com
Contact No :
9841369565
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Mr. Shashi Kumar Yadav
Ministry of Urban
Organization :
Development
Email : yshashiTS9@gmail.com
Contact No :
9851067345
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Ms. Nigar Anjum
M/o Planning Development &
Organization :
Reforms, Islamabad
Email
thanrim@yahoo.com
:
nigar.rah@gmail.com

43

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

22

23

Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka

24

Sri Lanka

25

Sri Lanka

Contact No :
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Dr. S.Amalanathan
Ministry of Public
Organization : Administration and Disaster
Management
samal25spm@yahoo.com
Email :
Contact No
Whatsapp No.
Name
Organization
Email
Contact No
Whatsapp No.
Name

:
:
:
:
:
:
:
:

94 777547778
Mr. N.A.V.Dissanayake
Disaster Management Centre
nra.viraj74@gmail.com
94 773957887

Ms. M A Kavitha
Ministry of Finance,
Organization : Department of External
Resources
Email : kavitha@erd.gov.lk
Contact No : 94 776404236
Whatsapp No. :
Name : Ms. Henry Glorieux
Organization : UN RC Office Bangladesh
Email : henry.glorieux@one.un.org
Contact No :
Whatsapp No. :

44

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

45

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

46

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Programme Note
Post Disaster Needs Assessment & Disaster Recovery Frameworks
for SAARC Member States
Background


The United Nations Development Group (UNDG), the European Union (EU) and the
World Bank (WB) signed a joint declaration1 in 2008 on Post-Crisis Assessments and
Recovery Planning committing their Organizations to collaborate and harmonize post‐
crisis frameworks to support post-disaster needs assessments and recovery planning.



Since the signature of the agreement, the three partners have jointly prepared the PostDisaster Needs Assessment (PDNA) procedural and technical guidelines and the Disaster
Recovery Framework (DRF) guide. Both the PDNA Guidelines and the Recovery
Framework Guide were presented last September 2014 at the Second World
Reconstruction Conference and officially launched at the Sendai Third World Conference
on DRR on 14 March 2015.



The development of the PDNA and DRF guides represents a unique outcome towards a
harmonized and standardized approach in Government-led efforts to estimate the needs for
recovery after a disastrous event and to plan and implement recovery strategies to help
rebuild the physical, social and human capital of disaster affected communities.



The guidelines now need to be widely disseminated and capacities strengthened among
Governments, staff members of the three partner organizations as well as among
practitioners, for needs assessment and recovery planning. UNDP anchors the capacity
building efforts for PDNA and DRFs in partnership with the EU and World Bank.



These efforts envisage a systematic approach to develop PDNA and DRF capacities
covering different regions around the world. To this end, Intergovernmental Organizations,
such as South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) are principal
stakeholders to encourage member countries to prepare and undertake recovery processes
in a more effective and efficient manner.



The regional workshop on Post Disaster Needs Assessment and Recovery Frameworks,
targets Member States of SAARC, in particular officials from the ministry of disaster

47

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

management or ministry of planning and finance. The training will be help in collaboration
with SAARC Disaster Management Center and UNDP.


This concept note provides the necessary information to participants to understand the
objective, selection criteria and other operational procedures that will be followed in the
organization of this event.

Objective
The main purpose of the training on PDNA and DRF is to inform Government officials from
the SAARC Member States about the advantages of applying a standardized approach and
methodology to conduct post disaster needs assessments, formulate a recovery strategy and
plan for its successful implementation.
In addition, a pool of 35 to 40 delegates from member countries will be trained on the use and
application of the PDNA and DRF methodology and approach. One of the expected results is
to establish a roster of professionals from the member countries to undertake needs assessment
and formulate recovery frameworks in the Asian Region.
Regional experts are expected to support in-country trainings and capacity-building within
SAARC member countries.

Methodology
The 4-day training methodology includes: a series of interactive lectures, power point
presentations, directives for small and large group discussions, practical exercises, role-plays
and a standardized case-study analysis. Handouts, flash drives with relevant essential
documents for the workshop, and instructions for facilitators and trainees will be shared during
the workshop; prior to the workshop, participants are encouraged to: read and familiarize
themselves with the PDNA methodology, Vol. A, review the suit of sector chapters Vol. B as
well as the Disaster Recovery Framework (DRF).
1

EU, UNDG and World Bank- Joint Declaration on Post-Crisis Assessment and Recovery Planning, 25th September 2008. The UNDP

Administrator signed the Declaration on behalf of the UNDG.

http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/librarypage/crisis-prevention-and-recovery/pdna.html#
https://gfdrr.org/sites/gfdrr/files/publication/DRF-Guide.pdf

48

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

About the Trainers
Experienced professionals in the field of post disaster needs assessments who have been
engaged in the development of the PDNA methodology and the formulation of recovery
frameworks, with enough practical experience on the ground, have been invited to conduct this
workshop.
The core team of trainers is complemented by selected sector experts who will provide their
specialized perspective in key areas such as infrastructure, production, socio-economic aspects
and will reflect on the cross-cutting issues of PDNA and recovery formulation such as
governance, disaster risk reduction, environment, gender, employment and livelihoods.

About the Trainees
The main targets of the training are delegates from the SAARC Member States, in their
capacity to support policy and technical issues related to post disaster assessment and recovery
planning. Trainees are expected to support future PDNAs and the formulation of DRFs in the
aftermath of a disaster. They will be also part of a regional network that expects to contribute
to the strengthening of national and regional capacities for recovery. Delegates from the
countries are expected to have a strong technical background on development, disaster risk
reduction or recovery. Emergency management is not the focus of this training.

Workshop details
The four-day workshop includes a series of interactive lectures, power point presentations,
directives for small and large group discussions, practical exercises, role-plays and a
standardized case-study analysis. Participants are encouraged to familiarize themselves with
the PDNA methodology (Vol. A) and the Sectorial Approach (Vol. B) through links provided
on the Methodology Section.

Eligibility Criteria
Participants are invited based on their capacity to influence politically and technically the use
and application of the PDNA and DRF. Trained staff will be expected to lead and contribute
to post disaster needs assessment activities on the ground, regionally and within their own

49

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

countries. All the proposed participants are required to fill out the application form attached to
this concept note.

SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC-IU), Gujarat
South Asia Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Disaster Management Centre
(SDMC-IU) has been set up at Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) Campus,
Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India in November 2016, with a vision to be a Centre of Excellence for
regional cooperation and specialised service delivery to Member States for Disaster Risk
Reduction (DRR), Response and Recovery for Sustainable Development. Eight Member
States, i.e. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka
are expected to be served by the SDMC (IU).

Agenda
Day 1: Tuesday 27 August 2019
Time

Session and Objectives

09.00 – 09:30 Arrival and Registration
09:30 – 10.00 Opening Session

Facilitators/ Presenters
SDMC (IU)

Welcome and Participants
Introduction

Methodology
30 min
30 min
10 min.

Mr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP) 5 min.
Introductory Remarks
Address by Member NDMA

Mr Kamal Kishore

5 min.

Inaugural Speech and Key Note
Address

Director SDMC (IU)

8 min.
2 min.

Group Photo
10.00 – 10.20
10:20 – 11:30

Coffee Break
Session 2: PDNA Overview
-

Evolution of Recovery
Approaches

Trainers:
Mr Kamal Kishore,
Member, NDMA

70 min.
20 min.

50

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

-

Dr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP)
To explain the rationale
.
working principles, purpose,
10 min
value add and limitations of the
PDNA process and
methodology.

-

To understand the institutional
Ms Rita Missal (UNDP)
protocols of the PDNA,
procedures, roles and
responsibilities for activating
and conducting a PDNA.

11:30 – 12:30

Session 3: Experience Sharing
-

12:30 - 13:30
13:30 – 14:10

Panel Discussion: Officials and
practitioners share their
experience of participating in
a PDNA/ assessments.

Facilitated by: Director,
SDMC (IU)
Country representatives :
Nepal; Sri Lanka;

20min.

20 min. Q&A
60 min.
20 min. for
each ppt & 20
min. Q & A

Lunch
40 min.

Session 4:
-

Pre-Disaster Baseline and
Data Collection: To
understand the pre-disaster
context and how to identify
sources of baseline data.
Use of Data and Imagery:
To understand what systems and
mechanisms exist and how they
can be used to strengthen data
collection.

Mr Ricardo Zapata
(Partcip EU)

Dr Rama Mohan Rao
National Remote Sensing
Centre (NRSC),
Hyderabad

14:10 -14:30

Session 5: Introduction to Case Rita Missal (UNDP)
Study
To provide an overview of the case
study on which the group exercises
for the PDNA will be
based and announce the groups.

14:30 – 15:00

Session 5: Group Exercise

Facilitation by trainers

Developing baseline data and
pre disaster context analysis

Subgroups:
Group 1: Housing
Group 2: Agriculture
Group 3: DRR &
Environment

20 Mins

20 Mins

20 mins

30 min.
Group
Exercise

51

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

15:00 – 15:15

Coffee Break

15:15 - 16:00

Session 6 : Post Disaster Effects
and four dimensions of
disaster effects
16:00 – 16:45 Session 7: Group Exercise

Mr Ricardo Zapata

45 min.

Trainers:

45 min.

Analysing the four dimensions
of the disaster effects
16:45 – 17:00 Wrap-up and closing of the day
Day 2: Wednesday, 28 August 2019
Time

Name of Session / Objectives

Responsible / Facilitator

Methodology

09:00 - 09:15

Recap of the previous day and introduction to second day
09:15 – 09:45 Session 8: Estimating Damage Trainer:
30 min.
and Loss
Dr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP)
15 min. (ppt)
- To understand the general
15 min. Q&A
principles of estimating
damage and loss
- To understand sector-wise
estimation of damage and loss
09:45 – 10:00 Exercise: Damage and Loss
Facilitated by: Rita Missal
15 min.
10:00 – 10:30

10: 30-10:45
10:45 – 11: 30

11:30 – 12:00

12:00 -12:30

Session 9:
Group work
Estimating Damage and Loss

Trainers:

30 min.

Coffee Break
Trainers
Session 10:
Group Presentations on Context
analysis, Post Disaster Effects,
Damage and Loss Estimates
Trainer
Session 11 :
Ms
Rita Missal
Estimating Recovery Needs
and Developing a Recovery
strategy
Session 12: Group work on
developing recovery needs and
strategy

Trainers

45 min.

30 min.

30 mins

52

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

12:30 – 13:00

Mr Bishnupada Sethi

Session 13: Sharing of
experiences
Developing Institutional &
Technical capacities in PDNA

30 mins

NIDM

12:45-13:45

Lunch

13:45 – 14:30

Group Presentations

14:30 – 14:50

Session 14: Analysing the
Macro-economic Impact of a
disaster
To be able to identify the
consequences of the disaster at
the macro and micro-economic
level.

Trainer
Mr Ricardo Zapata

20 min.

14:50 -15:10

Session 15: Analysing the
Human Development Impact of
a disaster
To be able to identify the
consequences of the disaster on
the quality of human life in the
medium and long-term.

Dr Krishna Vatsa

20 min

15:10 –15:25
15:25 – 15:45
15:45 – 16.00
16:00 – 19:00

45 min

Coffee Break
Session 16:
Exercise : Affects and Impacts

Facilitated by: Rita Missal

20 min.

Wrap-up and closing of the day
Visit to Dandi Kutir, Gandhinagar
Day 3: Thursday, 28 August 2019

Time

Name of Session / Objectives

Responsible / Facilitator Methodology

06:15-12.00

Heritage Walk – World Heritage City of Ahmedabad

12:00 -13:00

Lunch

13:00-13:15

Recap of the previous day and introduction to third day

53

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

13.15 – 14:15 Session 17: Developing a
Trainer:
Recovery Framework; Elements
of a Recovery Framework
Ricardo Zapata
- Recovery Policy
- Institutional arrangements for
Recovery
14:15 –15:00

Session 18: Group Discussion
and presentation on :
- Recovery policy and
Institutional
arrangements for
recovery in two selected
countries in SAARC
(Gujarat, Bangladesh,
Nepal)

15:00 –15:15

60 min.
45 min.
presentation
15 min. Q&A
45 Min.
30 min.
presentation
15 min. Q&A

Coffee Break

15.15 – 16:00

Session 19: Disaster Recovery
Framework
- Financing Options for
Recovery
- Implementation
arrangements including
monitoring recovery

Dr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP)

45 Min.

16:00 -17:00

Session 20: Group Discussions
and presentation on financing
options and implementation
/monitoring options for
recovery

Trainers

60 Min.

17:00 – 17.15

Wrap-up and closing of the day
Day 4: Friday, 30 August 2019

Time
09:00-09:15

Responsible / Facilitator

Name of Session / Objectives

Recap of the previous day and introduction to fourth day

09:15 – 10:30 Session 20: Writing the
PDNA Report and DRF
report
- To understand how the sector
and full PDNA report and a
DRF sector report is prepared
10:30 – 10:45

Methodology
/ Comments

Trainer Ricardo
Zapata

75 min
60 min
Presentation
30 min. Q&A

Coffee Break

54

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

10:45 – 11:30 Session 21: Reflections
Presentation by:
Discussion on lessons learnt and
improvement in Recovery practices Krishna Vatsa
11:30 – 12:30 Session 22: Introducing
Recovery Preparedness
Best practices from countries in
Asia and ASEAN
12:30 – 13:30

Ms Rita Missal

60 min.

Lunch Break

13:30 – 14:00 Session 23:. New Initiatives
- South -South Cooperation
efforts
- Coalition for Disaster
Resilient Infrastructure

Facilitated by:

14:45 – 15:00

30 min.

Dr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP) 20 min.
presentation
10 min. Q & A

14:00 – 14:45 Session 24: Next Steps and Wrap Facilitated by:
Up
Participant recommendations to Mr Ricardo Zapata (EU)
national and regional agencies to
strengthen PDNA and Recovery
Planning

45 min.
Group
Discussion to
prepare
Action
Plan matrix

Coffee Break

15:00 – 15:30 Closing remarks
Training Evaluation and
Participation Certificates
16:00 – 20:00

45 min.
15 min.
presentation
30 min. Q&A

SDMC (IU)

Visit to Ahmedabad (Shopping)

55

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Post Disaster Needs Assessment
August 27 – 30, 2019

Day 1: Tuesday, 27 August ’19
Opening Session
On behalf of SAARC Disaster Management
Center Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed all the
dignitaries on the dais and participants from
respective SAARC Member States and
resource person for the capacity building
program on Post Disaster Needs Assessment
organized with technical support of UNDP,
World bank and European Union and gave
introduction of dignitaries

(L to R: Ms. Rita Misal (UNDP), Mr. Kamal Kishor
(NDMA), Mr. P.K. Taneja (Director SDMC-IU), Mr.
Krishan Vatsa (UNDP), Mr. Ricardo Zapata (EU))

After introduction of all the participants the session was inaugurated by lightning of lamp in
the presence of Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director SDMC (IU), facilitators from UNDP, EU, and
participant from each of SAARC Member states.

(Mr. Ricardo Zapata lightning the lamp)

56

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Key Note Address by Mr. P.K. Taneja (Director, SDMC-IU)
Mr.

P.K.

Taneja,

Director,

SDMC(IU)

welcomed all the facilitators and delegates
from SAARC Member States, experts from all
the sectors and specially thanked UNDP and
EU for providing technical support and
organizing the capacity building program with
SDMC(IU).
Further he emphasised that the need of an era is
to manage risks instead of managing disaster.
In that case, PDNA provides an opportunity to document fast and real time lessons learned and
experience on DRR and recovery planning, and further provides the space to advocate for putting
the lessons learned into the recovery plan.
He explained that the main objective of the capacity building workshop was to share practical
knowledge and experience on various methodologies to design and implement recovery initiative
so as to strengthen the government in the early, medium, and long term recovery stages to build
back better.

Group Photo

57

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Introductory Remarks: Mr. Krishna Vatsa (UNDP)
Mr. Krishna highlighted the need of partnership
for development of process for PDNA in South
Asian region. South Asian countries are exposed
to different hazards and recovery is becoming an
important aspect after any disaster. Rather than
providing mere humanitarian assistant there is a
need

for

Strengthening

Governance

for

comprehensive recovery.
He expressed his happiness about conducting this program at GIDM and SDMC venue as these
both are an outgrowth of recovery program. He also mentioned that it is good opportunity for
learning and to have presence from NDMA, NIDM, SDMC and UNDP on a same platform as
NIDM is working on PDNA for a long time. He also acknowledged the presence of Mr. Ricardo
from EU in this training.

Key note address by Member of NDMA: Mr Kamal Kishore
Mr. Kamal Kishore expressed that the practice of
recovery is getting much more systematic over the
last two decades. Every recovery needs a good
assessment and theoretical exercise involving all
stakeholders to build back better in post disaster
needs assessment. He acknowledged Mr. Krishna
Vatsa statement that this training itself is a symbolic
one, as it is happening in GIDM venue which has been developed post Bhuj Earthquake as
recovery program.
In his presentation Mr. Kamal Kishore talked about two major points, 1. Whole notion of
comprehensive PDNA reconstruction, recovery and rehabilitation program 2. Institution
mechanism for reconstruction and managing recovery.
And he explained about 5 key trends going on in PDNA:

58

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

1. Integrated comprehensive approach of PDNA going around Reconstruction and Recovery,
2. Greater emphasis on outcome along with the input,
3. Build Back Better in true sense by taking in account of livelihood of people, green recovery,
proper debris removal, and building resilient ecosystem services,
4. Focused on strong coordination mechanism including multi stakeholders in loop of PDNA.
Taking accountability of end users in Build Back Better mechanism.

Session 2: PDNA Overview
In this session Ms. Rita Misal, Mr. Krishan
Vatsa and Mr. Ricardo briefed on the PDNA, its
Conceptual Framework and Protocols for
undertaking a PDNA, and PDNA process and
methodology. Further they explained in detail
about joint assessment and recovery planning,
analyses of damage and loss, its impacts and effect on Macro economy.
They also explained the importance of conducting such workshop on regional level that can help
national government to form a recovery framework, considering DRR and BBB.

Session 3: Experience Sharing
Ms. Rita Misal encouraged representatives from SAARC Member States to share their respective
experience about PDNA.
Nepal experience presentation:
Mr. Anup KC presented about 2015 Nepal
earthquake’s PDNA. He shared that it took
approximately 45 days to prepare first
PDNA report.
He also presented the outcomes of PDNA
towards institutional strengthening like:
(Country representatives: Mr. Anup KC, Nepal)

59

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------



Reconstruction Act Formation of NRA (Dec2015)



Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Policy (Feb2016)



Post Disaster Recovery Framework (May- 2016). The challenges faced and lesson learned was
also talked about.

Sri Lanka experience presentation:
Mr. Samarakoon presented experiences on Sri
Lanka’s Floods and Landslides May 2016 and
associated PDNA practice. He talked about the
location and background of PDNA, International
parties participated in preparing the PDNA and
methodology used, sectors and geographical area
affected and covered under PDNA, the chart of

Country representatives: Mr.Samarakoon Sri Lanka)

Damage and Losses in monetary value.
After the presentation, Ms. Rita informed that Sri Lanka is one of the countries which has insurance
coverage for housing against disaster damage and loss. The government provides subsidy for the
insurance.

Session 4: Dr Rama Mohan Rao from National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC),
Hyderabad
Dr. Rama Mohan Rao presented on the use of
Data and Imagery techniques to understand
existing system and mechanisms, their application
to strengthen data collection to be used in PDNA.
He talked about major three data sets,
1. Raster,
2. Vector,
3. Non spatial/Attribute.

(Mr. Rama Mohan Rao taking session on Use of Data
imagery

60

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Further he explained use of RS & GIS in Disaster Relief, Damage Assessment, and given details
of Release of NDEM Version 3.0, and Product and Services of NRSC working on the Disaster
data.
Ms. Rita Misal and Mr. P.K. Taneja talked about the usability of GIS data in PDNA possible only
if we get the Pre and Post Disaster data with good enough visibility. Mr. Ricardo talked about how
Haiti used spatial GIS data in PDNA for recovery of various ecosystem.
Pre-Disaster Baseline and Data Collection: Mr. Ricardo Zapata (EU)
Mr. Ricardo presented on Pre-Disaster Baseline
and data collection and explained the importance
of having baseline data from census and other
sources of data collection by the government.
Further he explained to understand Gap Analysis
from Pre Disaster and Post Disaster Data. He also
explained the form of datasets.

Session 5: Introduction to Case Study

(Mr. Ricardo taking session on Pre Disaster baseline and
collection)

The session provided an overview of the case
study on which the group exercises for the PDNA
was based. The Group Exercise for developing
baseline data and pre disaster context analysis was
announced by Ms. Rita Missal (UNDP).
In the Group Exercise Participants were divided
into three different subgroups mentioned as
below:
Group 1: Housing
Group 2: Agriculture
Group 3: DRR & Environment

61

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Each group was given one case study. Participants were asked to go through the case study. As
part of the exercise they were asked to calculate Damage & Loss in their respective sectors, make
a presentation and share with other groups.
Note: Remaining Session of Day 1 were continued on Day 2

Day 2: Wednesday, 28 August’19
In the beginning of the day 2, Ms. Ekta Thaman
from GSDMA briefed on the previous day and
Ms. Rita Misal gave the introduction on day 2.
And the day was started by continuing with the
previous day exercise.

(Ms.Ekta Thaman-GSDMA)

Session 5: Group Exercise
Developing baseline data and pre disaster context analysis

In this exercise participants were divided into
three different sub group mentioned as
below.
Group 1: Housing
Group 2: Agriculture
Group 3: DRR & Environment
Each group was given a case study for
analysis of damage and loss in different
sectors. As per the instructions given by PDNA Team, there was one leader and one reporter in
each group.
Mr. Krishana Vatsa guided the Housing Group, Mr. Ricardo Guided the Agriculture Group and

62

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Ms. Rita Mishal guided the DRR & environment
sector.
After Group exercise one participant from each
group presented the outcome of their group
discussion and explained about the calculation of
damage and loss in their respective sector.

Session 6: Post Disaster Effects and four dimensions of disaster effects
Mr. Ricardo explained that post disaster effect is a quantitative and qualitative term by sectors,
geographic division and gender- age. This should be evaluated for each disaster affected area and
for each sector aggregation of total, follows a bottom up approach.
He also explained about four dimensions of the disaster effect:
•

Damage of infrastructure and physical assets,

•

Disruption to access to goods and services,

•

Disruption to governance and decision- making process,

•

Increase risk and vulnerability.

And also discussed about sources of information for effects, primary sources and secondary
sources.

Session 7: Group Exercise
Analysing the four dimensions of the disaster effects
Participants were divided in three groups and were given the case study to understand four
dimensions of the disaster effects on their respective sector, Housing, Agriculture and DRR &
Environment.

Session 8: Estimating Damage and Loss: Dr Krishna Vatsa (UNDP)

63

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Mr. Krishna Vatsa explained general principles
of estimating damage and loss and sector-wise
estimation of damage and loss. He explained in
detail about the aggregation of the disaster effect
and how summarisation take place in a typical
PDNA report. He gave detailed understanding of
PDNA terminology like Damage and Loss,
Estimating Damage in PDNA Report and
Estimating Loss in PDNA Report. He also explained the importance of costing the loss.
He has taken example of fruit juice vendor, to make participants understand the calculation of
damage and loss.
Exercise: Damage and Loss Facilitated by Rita Missal
Ms. Rita Missal took this session and made
participant understand the factors to be considered
in assessing the damage and loss post disaster. She
also explained the use of baseline data in
calculationg Damage and Loss post disaster.

Session 9: Group work
Estimating Damage and Loss:

(Group Discussion)

64

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Session 10: Group Presentations on Context analysis, Post Disaster Effects,
Damage and Loss Estimates
Housing sector: Estimating Damage and Loss
On behalf of the Housing sector Group Mr. Gulam
Sanghro presented about pre Disaster base line data
and estimated damage and loss in Housing sector
on the basis of case study given to them. They have
very well worked on pre disaster baseline data,
challenges for housing sector, existing capacity and capacity gap.
Agriculture sector: Estimating Damage and
Loss
Mr. Mohd. Aminul Islam presented on pre
disaster baseline data and estimating damage and
loss for Agriculture sector. They have calculated
most of the Damage of assets and losses due to
damage of infrastructure and property loss.
DRR and Environment sector: Estimating Damage and Loss
Mr. Repaul Kanji and Mr. Amshad Ahmed presented on
pre disaster baseline data and estimating damage and loss
for DRR and Environment Sector. They have done
detailed analysis of damage and loss data base on both the
sector that is DRR and Environment sector for the case
study given to them. They have considered policy which
are already in place in DRR and environment sector.

Session 11: Estimating Recovery Needs and Developing a Recovery strategy by
Ms Rita Missal

65

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Ms. Rita Missal took the session on the fourth
pillar of PDNA process that is Recovery
needs. In her presentation she explained about
four

dimension

of

recovery

needs,

reconstruction of infrastructure and physical
assets, resumption of the production of goods
and services, access to goods and services,
restoration of Governance and DecisionMaking Processes, Risk Reduction and
Building Back Better-BBB
Note: Remaining Session of Day 2 were continued on Day 3

Day 3: Thursday, 29 August’ 19
On Day 3 early morning Heritage walk was
planned by SDMC for the participant at World
Heritage City of Ahmedabad. All the
participant joined for the walk actively and
enjoyed the walk.

Session: Sharing of experiences
Developing Institutional & Technical capacities in PDNA Mr Bishnupada Sethi NIDM
Mr. Bishnupada Sethi from NIDM has taken this session online. He presented about developing
institutional & technical capacities in PDNA used in recent Odisha Flood. He talked about the
affected area, restoration taken place in Puri and other area, Damage and Restoration in Energy
Department, Restoration of roads, communication system, Losses to private sector.

Session 12: Group work on developing recovery needs and strategy

66

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Mr. Ahmed Sujeeth presented on Sector report for
Calculation of Damage and Loss account for Post
Disaster Needs Assessments for housing Sector.

Mr. Binoy Acharya from Unnati
He talked about the post disaster scenario of 2001
earthquake in Gujarat and the recovery process.
He also talked about the Damage and Loss
Assessment methodology adopted post disaster in
2001 Bhuj earthquake. He further added how the
recovery approach in Gujarat was inclusive in
nature, wherein special packages were declared
for orphans, old age people, women, widows, handicapped everyone. He also mentioned about the
urban reconstruction strategy after the earthquake and grievance redressal mechanism.

Session 13: Analysing the Macro-economic Impact of a disaster
This session was combined taken by Mr.
Ricardo and Ms. Rita, they explained on
appreciating

the

differences

and

complementarities between the economic and
human impact assessments, identify key macroeconomic variables for the economic impact
assessment, and how to analyse examples of
past economic impact assessments.
They also explained about identifying the consequences of the disaster at the macro and microeconomic level, the GAP analysis undertaken at the national and regional levels for all sectors and
all social groups, analysis between economy impact and human impact.

67

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Session 14: Analysing the Human Development Impact of a disaster
This session was taken by Mr. Krishna, in his presentation he briefed about the consequences of
the disaster on the quality of human life in the medium and long-term. He explained on how to get
the direct inputs from the people on their recovery priorities to mitigate the worsening of the human
impact.
Further he explained that Human Development Impacts relies on the five key indicators:
• Living condition,
• Livelihood,
• Food Security,
• Gender equality and
• Social inclusion.
He has given example of Health Impact
Assessment from the Drought Impact and
Needs Assessment (DINA) Somalia-2017, the difference between pre disaster baseline scenario
and post disaster human impact.

Day 4: Friday, 30 August’19
Session 15: Exercise on Affects and Impacts Facilitated by Ms. Rita Missal
On the beginning of the day participants from each group presented on the Affects and Impacts
and Damage and loss Accounts in their respective sectors namely Agriculture, Housing, DRR and
Environment.

Session 16: Developing the Recovery Strategy
The session was taken by Ms. Rita Missal. She explained about the links between the PDNA
Assessment and the Recovery Strategy, and the links between the Disaster Recovery Strategy and
the Disaster Recovery Framework.

68

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

She also briefed about the objective of the
recovery strategy mentioned as below:
•

Identify priorities based on assessment

results
•

Establish milestones for recovery

•

Promote an equity based, participatory

and inclusive recovery process
•

Provide an indicative cost of recovery

•

Provide the basis for DRF

•

Serve as a tool for resource mobilization with donors

She further explained how Disaster recovery strategy leads to making Disaster recovery frame
work.

Session 17: Developing a Recovery Framework; Elements of a Recovery
Framework by Ricardo Zapata
Mr. Ricardo took the session on
Developing a Recovery Framework,
Elements of Recovery framework,
Financing Options for recovery and
Implementation arrangements including
monitoring
has

presented

recovery.
the

He

summary of

Disaster Recovery Framework modules
and explained about developing, Policy
and Strategy Setting, Institutional Framework, Financing for Recovery, Implementation. He also
talked about the importance of considering need of the stakeholders and taking them into the loop
in development of DRF- policy for short-term medium term and long-term recovery process.
He explained in detail, the linkages between PDNA and DRF, and the use of PDNA report in
developing DRF-plan.

69

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Feedback from the Participants
On the closing of Day 4 activities,
feedback from the participants was
taken on various criteria. The rating
given by the participants is shown in
the graph below:

Closing remarks
The training program had presentations, discussions and certain amount of reflections also. After
attending this program, the participants can contribute to recovery preparedness and recovery
planning in their respective countries and also support different kind of assessments for any
disaster. Post this program, participants are aware of the PDNA methodology and can promote the
same in various discussions, practice it, advocate, and put to good use.

70

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

List of Participants
Sr. No.

Country
Name
Organization

1

Afghanistan

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name
Organization

2

Organization
Afghanistan
Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name
Organization
4

Organization
5

6

Manager of Data Entry & Analysis of
Disaster, ANDMA, Afghanistan

:

: mahfoozullahqaderi@gmail.com
: +93 799818118
:
: Mr. Mohammad Ajmal Karimi
General Manager of International
: Trips & Programs, ANDMA,
Afghanistan
: karimi27@gmail.com
: +93 700237511
:
: Mr. Mizanur Rahman
Assistant Chief, Planning Division,
Ministry of Planning

:

Bangladesh
Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

: mizanur1048@gmail.com
:
+880 1739072101
:
: Mr. Mohd. Aminul Islam
Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Disaster Management and Relief

:

Bangladesh

Bangladesh

Photograph

: ebadiarifi@mof.gov.af
:
+93 790454747
:
: Mr. Mahfoozullha Qaderi

Afghanistan
Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

3

Particulars
Mr.
Ebadullah Arifi
:
Manager of Customs Exemption,
: Ministry of Finance, Afghanistan

Email : aminulislam67@yahoo.com
Contact No :
+880 1711447276
WhatsApp No. :
Name : Ms. Momena Khatun
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Disaster
Organization : Management and Relief
Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.

:
:
:

momena5628@gmail.com
+880 1712113380

71

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

7

8

India

India

Name

:

Col. Amit Khosla

Organization

:

Joint Advisor (CBT), NDMA, India

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.

:
:
:

amit_khosla64@yahoo.co.in
+91 9876426665

Name

:

Organization
Email

:
:

Mr. Ankur Srivastava
GIDM, Gujarat

Contact No
WhatsApp No.

9

10

11

12

India

India

India

India

:
:

rapc-gidm@gujarat.gov.in
+91 6359928399

Name

:

Mr. Arif Vohra

Organization

:

GIDM, Gujarat

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.

:
:
:

tspm-gidm@gujarat.gov.in

Name

:

Ms. Ramrakhiyani Juhi

Organization

:

Sector Manager. GSDMA, Gujarat

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.

:
:
:

ramarkhiyanijuhi@gmail.com

Name

:

Mr. Repaul Kanji

Organization

:

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

:
:
:
:

rspm-gidm@gujarat.gov.in

Organization

:

Dy. Director, GSDMA, Gujarat

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.

:
:
:

sksgsdma@gmail.com
+91 7069494500

+91 7574802201

+91 9737576072

GIDM, Gujarat

+91 7574802209
Mr. Saurabhkumar Singh

Name : Mr. Thomas Krishna Pegu
Organization : NIDM, MHA
13

India

Email : thomaspegu12625@gmail.com
Contact No :
WhatsApp No. :

72

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Name : Mr. Waseem Shafi Dar
Organization : Sector Manager. GSDMA, Gujarat
14

India

Email : waseemgsdma@gamil.com
Contact No :
7006078701
WhatsApp No. :
Name : Ms. Chetna Patil
Organization : Sector Manager. GSDMA, Gujarat

15

India

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

: chetna.gsdma@gmail.com
:
+91 9601099914
:
: Ms. Ekta Thaman
Asst. Director, GSDMA, Gujarat
Organization :

16

India

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

: ektathaman.gsdma@gmail.com
:
+91 9501809412
:
: Ms. Uzma Mohamed Gani

Organization : Sector Manager. GSDMA, Gujarat
17

18

India

Maldives

Email : uzma.gsdma@gmail.com
Contact No : 91 9309748623, +91 9561905831
WhatsApp No. :
Name : Mr. Ahmed Sujeeth
Assistant Architect, Ministry of National
Organization :
Planning & Infrastructure, Maldives
Email : ahmed.sujeeth@planning.gov.mv
Contact No : +960 7766737
WhatsApp No. :
Name :
Organization :

19

Maldives

Email :
Contact No :
WhatsApp No. :

Mr. Amshad Ahmed
Chair, Maldivian Red Crescent-Male
Branch, Red Cresaldives
amshad.ahmed@gmail.com
+960 7927774

73

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Name :
Organization :
20

21

Maldives

Nepal

23

Nepal

Nepal

:
:
:
:

ibrahim.mohamed@redcrescent.org.mv

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

:
:
:
:

akc@npc.gov.np

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

Sri Lanka

26

Sri Lanka

Administrative Officer, District
Administration Office, Parsa

:

Ms. Kopila Acharya
Section Officer, Ministry of Finance

:
:
:
:

Organization :
25

Mr. Bhanu bhakt Baral

bhanubhaktabaral628@gmail.com
977 9854120546, 977 9807265039

Organization :
Email :

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

+977 9841347899

:
:
:

Organization :
Pakistan

+960 7716364

Mr. Anup KC
Planning Officer, National Planning
Organization : Commission

Contact No :
WhatsApp No. :
Name :

24

Programme Assistant, Maldivian Red
Crescent, Maldives

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

Organization :
22

Mr. Ibrahim Mohamed

kopilaa@mof.gov.np
+977 9841912656
Mr. Ghulam Yaseen Sanghro
Section Officer (EFP-II), Finance
Division, Islamabad
sanghroghulamyaseen@gmail.com
+92 3068356383
Mr. S R R P Samarakoon
Assistant Director (Mitigation), Ministry of
Disaster Management

Email
Contact No
WhatsApp No.
Name

: ravindras@dmc.gov.lk
:
+94 761352486
:
: Mrs. Srirajani Pirashanthan
Chief Accountant, Ministry of National
Organization : Policies, Economic Affairs Department,
Colombo
Email : spirashanthan@gmail.com
Contact No :
+94 773075277
WhatsApp No. :

74

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

75

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

76

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Programme Note
Regional Severe Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early Warning
Mechanism
Background
South Asia is home to about one fourth of the world’s population and occupies only 3% of the
global land area, making it both the most populous and the most densely populated geographical
region in the world. SAARC region is among the most vulnerable regions of the world to hydrometeorological hazards including floods, cyclones, droughts and extreme temperatures.
Climate, weather and hydrological hazards do not recognize national boundaries.
Transboundary/regional programs and cooperation are essential for reduction of the loss of lives
and damage to livelihoods when facing these hazards. The development and implementation of
systems to provide early warnings for severe weather events such as cyclones and flash floods
requires data and information sharing in real time, and coordination among the government
agencies at all levels. Within a country, this includes local, municipal, provincial-to-national levels
as well as regional and international entities involved in hydro-meteorological services and
Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR). The National Meteorological and Hydrologic Services (NMHSs)
is generally the authority solely responsible for issuing warnings for these hazards. However, in
many countries, the linkages and interfaces between the NMHS and other agencies need to be
strengthened. Therefore, there is a critical need to assess, strengthen, and formalize collaborations
when addressing the concept of reducing risk and impacts from severe weather and floods.
The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction: 2015–2030 (SFDRR) that was adopted by
187 nations (including all the SAARC Member States) aimed at the substantial reduction of
disaster risk and losses in lives, livelihoods and health and in the economic, physical, social,
cultural and environmental assets of persons, businesses, communities and countries. As outlined
in the principles and priorities under SFDRR, a critical component of Disaster Risk Reduction
(DRR) is to enable early action. One way to achieve this is through a well-functioning early
warning system that delivers accurate, reliable and easy to understand warnings, in a timely
manner, to authorized disaster managers and populations at risk to take necessary actions. Effective

77

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

early warning systems involve four operational components viz. (1) Monitoring and Warning
Service; (2) Risk Knowledge; (3) Dissemination and Communication; and (4) Response
Capability; which requires close cooperation and coordination among all the agencies involved.
State-of-the-art technology and a perfect forecast will not save lives if the populations at risk are
not informed in a timely manner or do not have plans and policies in place in advance to reduce
impacts. Well-prepared communities remain vulnerable to these hazards if they do not have access
to and understand information that provides the lead time needed to take necessary actions.
Communications and warning/information dissemination are important attributes of a successful
warning system as well as investment into building the capacity of forecasters and knowledge user.
In addition, close coordination must occur between all sectors and between national and local
governments for systems to function properly with clear lines of roles and responsibilities to avoid
confusion and chaos during disasters. Important parts of this process are the systems that enable
user feedback to periodically improve to address the needs of decision makers.
Considering the same, SDMC (IU) is organizing a training workshop with the aim to strengthen
coordination and collaboration mechanisms from national to local levels for Severe Weather and
Flash Flood Hazard Early Warning Systems. During the program various tools and facilities to
enhance currently operational severe weather and flash flood early warning systems in various
countries in support of delivery and communication of warnings for the DRR entities at the
regional, national and local levels in order to reduce the loss of life and property will be
demonstrated.

Objectives
Overall, the capacity building program will provide an opportunity to:


Provide an updated overview on different approaches used for severe weather prediction/
forecasting of rainfall in the region;



Understand the role of agencies involved in severe weather early warning and their
mechanisms in the SAARC region.



Discuss the issues and challenges of hazard assessment and ways of risk communication
amongst the stakeholders.

78

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------



Understand opportunity to develop simple prediction mechanism using Climate Prediction
Tool (CPT) for the region;

Targeted Audience
About 25 participants from the SAARC Member States working with National Meteorological and
Hydrology Services, disaster management agencies and relevant departments are expected to be
participate in the training workshop.

Course Delivery
The course will be delivered using modern learning techniques with an emphasis on interactive
lectures, group exercises, field visits and group brainstorming. The course will be enriched by
guest speakers who will host debates and discussions using their wealth of practical experience in
the field to provide cutting-edge insights on Severe Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early
Warning Systems. Participants will also be encouraged to share their experiences of end–to-end
Early warning systems and dissemination techniques from their respective countries.

SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC-IU)
SDMC (IU) has been set up at Gujarat Institute of Disaster Management (GIDM) Campus,
Gandhinagar, Gujarat, India in November 2016, with a vision to be a Centre of Excellence for
regional cooperation and specialized service delivery to Member States for Disaster Risk
Reduction (DRR), Response and Recovery for Sustainable Development. Eight Member States,
i.e. Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka are being
served by the SDMC (IU).

Agenda
Day 1: 15th October 2019 – Tuesday

79

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Time

Session and Objectives

09.15 – 09:45

Arrival and Registration

09:45 – 10.15

Opening Session
Welcome and Participants Introduction
Introductory remarks and Keynote
Speech Group Photo
Coffee Break
Regional Severe Weather Forecasting
Status on Plan

10.15 –10.45
10.45 – 12.00

Facilitators/
Presenters
SDMC (IU)

Methodology
30 min

SDMC (IU)
30 min
Director, SDMC (IU) 10 min.
15 min.
5 min.
Dr Naresh Kumar,
Scientist IMD

75 min.
60 min. ppt. &
15 min. Q&A

12.00 –13.00

Lunch Break

13.00-14.00

Early Warning Mechanism in South Asia Dr Naresh Kumar,
Scientist IMD

60 min.
50 min. ppt. &
10 min. Q&A.
60 min.

14.00-15.00

15.00 – 15.15
15.15 – 16.45

Country Presentations: Status and Future Plans of Severe
Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early Warning Mechanism
- Afghanistan
- Bangladesh
- Bhutan
Coffee Break
Country Presentations: Status and Future Plans of Severe
Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early Warning Mechanism
- India
- Maldives
- Nepal
- Pakistan
- Sri Lanka

15 min for each
presentation
15 min Q & A
75 min.
15 min for each
presentation
15 min Q & A

17:30 – 18:30 Meditation – Fitness Centre

Day 2: 16th October 2019 – Wednesday
07.30 – 08.30 Meditation – Fitness Centre
Time

Session and Objectives

10.00 – 10.45

Case Study – Kerala Floods, 2018

10.45 – 11.15

Activities of Regional Integrated MultiHazard Early Warning System in
SAARC region: Discussion on
Establishing and Maintaining end-to-end
Early Warning System – Issues and
Challenges (Skype call)
Coffee Break

11.15 –11.30

Facilitators/
Presenters
Dr. Sekhar L.
Kuriakose
Member Secretary
SDMA - Kerala
Dr. S. Jothiganesh
Team Leader Climate
Applications
RIMES, Thailand

Methodology
45 min.
35 min ppt 10
min Q & A
30 min.
25 min ppt 5
min Q & A

80

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

11.30 – 12.15

South Asian Climate Outlook Forum
(SASCOF) - A Mechanism for preparing
consensus climate forecast outlook for
South Asia

Dr O P Sreejith
Scientist IMD

35 min ppt 10
min Q & A

13.00 –14.00
14.00 – 14.45

Lunch Break
Community based Floods Early-Warning
Dr Karna
Dissemination and Communication
Nepal

14.45 –15.00

Coffee Break
Visit to India Meteorological
Department, Ahmedabad

15.00 –17.00

45 min.

Dr Jayant Sarkar
Director
IMD, Ahmedabad

45 min.
35 min ppt 10
min Q & A
60 min.
Discussion 20
min Q & A

17:00 – 19:00 Shopping - Ahmedabad

Day 3: 17th October 2019 – Thursday
07.30 – 08.30 Meditation – Fitness Centre
Time

Facilitators/
Methodology
Presenters
10.00 – 11.00 Regional framework for Lightning EWS Col. Sanjay Srivastava 60 min.
45 min ppt 15
for South Asia
Chairman, CROP
min Q & A
11.00 –11.30

Session and Objectives

Coffee Break

11.30 – 12.15 Climate Change and its Impact on Dr D R Pattanaik
Extreme Weather over South Asia
Head,(Numerical
Weather Prediction)
Division, IMD

45 min.
35 min ppt 10
min Q & A

12.15 – 13.00 Integration of Space Technology in
Severe Weather Warning and Flash
Floods Monitoring
13.00 –14.00 Lunch Break
14.00 – 15.00 Perspectives of Severe Weather
Predictions in SAARC Region covering
Multi – Hazards

Dr Abhinav Kumar
NRSC, Hyderabad

45 min.
35 min ppt 10
min Q & A

Dr K J Ramesh
Ex. DGM, IMD

60 min.
45 min ppt 15
min Q & A

15.00 – 15.30 Closing remarks
Training Evaluation and Participation
Certificates
15.30 –15.50

SDMC (IU)

Coffee Break

16:00 – 19:00 Visit to “DandiKutir” – Gandhinagar

81

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Training Workshop on Regional Severe Weather and Flash
Flood Hazard Early Warning Mechanism
15th to 17th October 2019

Day 1: 15th October 2019, Tuesday
Opening Session
On behalf of SAARC Disaster Management Centre, Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed and introduced
all the dignitaries on the dais, participants from respective SAARC Member States and resource
persons for the Training Workshop on Regional Severe Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early
Warning Mechanism.

Keynote Address by Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU)
Mr. P.K. Taneja welcomed all the delegates from
SAARC Member Countries and resource persons.
In his speech he said that, South Asia is the fastest
growing region in the world and at the same time,
it is one of the most vulnerable regions towards
hydro- meteorological hazards including floods,
cyclones, droughts and extreme temperatures.
Climate, weather and hydrological hazards do not recognize national boundaries. He also informed
that during the program, various tools and facilities to enhance currently operational severe

82

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

weather and flash flood early warning systems in various countries in support of delivery and
communication of warnings for the DRR entities at the regional, national and local levels will be
demonstrated. He requested all the present experts to share the case studies & their experience
during their talk. Further he said that it would be a great learning experience for everyone and
requested all the participants from SAARC member states to give their valuable inputs and solicit
their support for maximum participation/ interaction during the sessions.

Session 1: Regional Severe Weather Forecasting Status on Plan
by: Dr. Naresh Kumar, Scientist, IMD (Indian
Metrological Department)
Dr. Naresh Kumar presented on the Early Warning
Mechanism in Indian region. He explained about the
effect of Western Disturbance on the Indian subcontinent. He also explained about the Himalayan
wind flow, low pressure zone and high-pressure
zone of the SAARC region. Features associated with extreme precipitation over Himalayas and
over plains. He presented case studies of 2013 Monsoon extreme rainfall event from 15-17 June
over Uttarakhand and 2014 Monsoon extreme rainfall event from 2-5 September over Jammu &
Kashmir, and explained the significance of assessment of low pressure and high-pressure zone in
issuing early warning. He also presented about the Early Warning Mechanism in IMD, Monitoring
and Forecast Process of IMD.

Session 2: Early Warning Mechanism in South Asia
by: Dr. Naresh Kumar, Scientist, IMD

Country Presentations: Status and Future Plans of Severe Weather and Flash Flood Hazard Early
Warning Mechanism
All the eight countries presented on this subject with view of their respective countries.

83

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

1. Afghanistan
Mr. Sayed Abdul Baset Rahmani presented about
the flash flood management information system of
Afghanistan, various early warning sources and
dissemination of information. He talked about the
constraints and challenges faced, and immediate and
short-term needs and planning.
2. Bangladesh
Mr. Md. Asadur Rahman presented about the
weather and climate related hazards in Bangladesh,
nodal agencies for monitoring and assessment of
natural hazards, warning criterion and SOPs in place,
BMD weather app, and public education on aspects
of weather and climate related natural hazards.
3. Bhutan
Mr. Tayba Buddha Tamang presented about the
vulnerabilities of Bhutan especially the GLOF and
floods. He explained the structure of National Centre
for Hydrology & Meteorology (NCHM) and the
hydrological and meteorological services provided
by it. He explained in detail the working of GLOF
early warning system. He also highlighted the challenges and future plans.
4. India
Dr. Manorama Mohanty and Dr. Jayanta Sarkar
described the flood situation in India. Dr. Manorama
presented on the role of IMD in flood forecasting,
early warning and now cast - observing system and
numerical weather prediction (NWP) modelling. She

84

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

presented an analysis for 9th August 2019, for the case of Gujarat by showing the satellite imagery,
meteosat and radar products, NWP products, and how the warning is issued. Discussing the future
plan, she highlighted on Common Alerting Protocol (CAP).
5. Maldives
Mr. Ibrahim Miflal Fayaz presented about the major
environmental problems and vulnerability indicators
for the archipelago of Maldives. He highlighted the
geographical challenges the region faces like coastal
erosion, pluvial flooding, and the effect of changing
topography on infrastructure development. He
presented on the challenges, adaptation measures and Strategic Action Plan taken up by the
concerned agencies of Maldives.
6. Nepal
Mr. Dilliram Acharya, Mr. Sunil Pokharel and Ms.
Sajeena Shakya presented in detail on how the
National Early Warning System captures the event
by presenting a case of July event and how the
system was effective in 2019 flood. They presented
on the improvement points and future plans. They
also highlighted on how regional co- operation can better support monitoring, warning and
prediction.

7. Pakistan
Mr. Tariq Masood Farooka in his presentation
explained about the institutional structure of disaster
management and flood hazard profile of Punjab
province in Pakistan. He presented on the water
irrigation pattern and river system of Pakistan, early

85

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

warning mechanism, and flood simulation at Indus. He showcased the capacity building measures
like mobile communication office, DSNG vans, water browsers, satellite-based tracking of rescue
boats and OBMS. And preparedness through control room, inventory management system, real
time monitoring of relief activities, provincial disaster response plan, disaster management system
(DMS), and mock exercises.
8.

Sri Lanka

Mr. H M A C Bandara presented on the legal
framework and organisational structure of Disaster
Management in Sri Lanka. He discussed on MultiHazard Early Warning Dissemination System, the
role of military in disaster management, early
warning dissemination system and national EOC.
Meditation at Fitness Centre
On all the three days of the program, meditation session was also organised for the participants
which received a good feedback from them.

86

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Day 2: 16th October 2019, Wednesday
Session 1: Case Study – Kerala Floods, 2018
by: Dr. Sekhar L Kuriakose, Member Secretary,
SDMA – Kerala
Dr. Sekhar L Kuriakose presented on Kerala floods,
2018-19. He briefed about the State, geography,
capacities, social culture, policies and vulnerabilities.
He shared the lesson learned from 2013 flood and
disaster management institution working in Kerala.
He explained the rainfall pattern of 2018 floods, compared to which, 2019 had more rainfall, but
in 2019 they were able to manage the situation much better with the experience of 2018. He told
how floods have started to happen in little pockets (remote locations) and discussed about
volunteerism, rescue and relief operation, loss of traditional practices, location based public GIS
media, vulnerability linked housing relocation scheme, etc.

Session 2: South Asian Climate Outlook Forum (SASCOF) - A Mechanism for
preparing consensus climate forecast outlook for South Asia
by: Dr. O. P. Sreejith, Scientist, IMD
Dr. O. P. Sreejith took session on South Asian
Climate Outlook Forum(SASCOF), wherein he
presented about Regional Climate Centre, Climate
Outlook Forum, South Asia Climate Outlook Forum,
basic of seasonal forecast, input for preparation of
Regional Climate Outlook, new tool for Flash Flood
Early Warning for South Asia. He explained about the World Metrological Organization (WMO)
and the weather observation system. Different type of scale processes, models active in IMD and
difference between Weather vs. Climate Forecasts. He also explained in detail how Flash Flood
Guidance System caters flash flood guidance at sub catchment scale over the entire South Asian
region and the SOP created by SASCOF for the same.

87

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Session 3: Community based Floods Early-Warning Dissemination and
Communication
by: Dr. Karna, Nepal
Mr. Karna took the session on Community Based
Floods Early Warning

Communications

and

Dissemination - A Case Study from Nepal. He
talked about the use of technology in recent time in
Nepal, the river basin approach, use of mobile
technology and IEC tools.

Session 4: Activities of Regional Integrated Multi-Hazard Early Warning System
in SAARC region: Discussion on Establishing and Maintaining end-to-end Early
Warning System – Issues and Challenges (Skype call)
by: Dr. S. Jothiganesh, Team Leader - Climate Applications, RIMES, Thailand
Dr. S. Jothiganesh took the session through skype call on Activities of Regional Integrated MultiHazard Early Warning System in SAARC region. He gave an overview of Regional Integrated
Multi- Hazard Early Warning System and its services in South Asia. He briefed about the RIMES’s
portfolio of services in South Asia, active regional services centres, time frame of forecasting and
share case studies of TNSMART-Platform.

Visit to India Meteorological Department, Ahmedabad

88

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

Day 3: 17th October 2019 – Thursday
Session 1: Regional framework for Lightning EWS for South Asia
by: Col. Sanjay Srivastava, Chairman, CROP
Col. Sanjay Srivastava presented on the Regional
Framework for Lightning EWS for SAARC
Countries, wherein he explained the process of
lightning scenario, effects and impacts of lightning
on human being. He also mentioned that the subject
“Lightning” was referred in CoP Paris (2015) by
Hon.PM of India as by product of extremities of climate. He also briefed about lightning resilient
India campaign 2019, mid monsoon 2019 lightning report, backcountry lightning risk
management, lightning safe areas, lightning protection device, prevention and mitigation for
lightning, lightning Early Warning Framework for SAARC Countries, and road map ahead.

Session 2: Climate Change and its Impact on Extreme Weather over South Asia
by: Dr. D.R. Pattnaik, Head, (Numerical
Weather Prediction) Division, IMD
Dr. D.R. Pattnaik in his presentation explained
about, climate system; climate variability and
climate change, observed climate change over India,
climate change and extreme weather, future climate
scenario, early warning & impact-based forecasting
for effective disaster management. Further he said that IMD has taken many steps towards
improving the early warning of disastrous weather in recent time, and impact-based forecasting
will be very useful in minimizing the adverse impacts of adverse weather through effective
Disaster Management.

Session 3: Integration of Space Technology in Severe Weather Warning and
Flash Floods Monitoring

89

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

by: Dr. Abhinav Kumar, NRSC, Hyderabad
Dr. Abhinav Kumar presented about the global disaster
profile (30% SAARC states), India and disasters, space
and ground assets for DRR, communication through
different types of satellites. He explained the
usefulness of space-based observation. He took the
case of cyclone Titli to explain the geo location understanding by taking satellite maps. Through
images of Kerala flood, he explained the colour code system and identification of low-lying areas.
He explained about NDEM, ISRO support to SAARC and Asian countries, ISRO roll in Sri Lanka
Floods, Bhutan floods, and other disasters data management.

Session 4: Perspectives of Severe Weather Predictions in SAARC Region covering
Multi – Hazards
by: Dr. K.J. Ramesh, Ex. DGM, IMD
Dr. K.J. Ramesh, in his presentation, explained about the
climate change and increasing risk of natural disasters,
integrated modelling efforts (INCOIS, NCCR), oceanatmospheric coupled modelling - extended range and
seasonal forecast, ocean-atmospheric Hurricane WRF
(Weather Research and Forecasting) for cyclone prediction, warning services for coastal region.
He also discussed about disastrous

weather

forecasting: technological limitations and

capabilities, role of meteorological information in coastal DRR, monitoring and forecast process
of cyclones, MoES agencies dealing with various hazards, operational HWRF Hybrid Coordinate
Ocean Model (HYCOM) modelling system.

Feedback from Participants and Closing Remarks
At the end of all technical sessions, feedback from the
participants was taken on various criteria. The rating given by
the participants is shown in the graph.

90

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

List of Participants
#

Country
Name :

1

Afghanistan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

2

Afghanistan
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

3

Afghanistan
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :

4

Email :

asadur.rahman64@gmail.com

Name :
Organization :
Bangladesh
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :

6

Bhutan

Mr. Md. Asadur Rahman
Assistant Director, Bangladesh
Meteorological Department

Bangladesh

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :

Photograph

Mr. Mohammad Ishaq Noori
Hydro metrological Advisor,
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
noorimet@yahoo.com
+93 799461756

Organization :

Contact No. :

5

Particulars
Mr. Sayed Abdul Baset
Rahmani
Technical Advisor,
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
sayed.brahmani@gmail. com
+93 796645685
Mr. Eng Sayed Sarwoddin Saifi
Head of Research & Study,
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
eng.saifi786@gmail.co m
+93 777224522

+880 1711385170
Mr. Syed Md. Nurul Basir
Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Disaster Management and
Relief
nbasir69@gmail.com
+880 1711466335
Mr. Tayba B Tamang
Chief, National Centre for
Hydrology & Meteorology
tbtamang@nchm.gov.bt
+975 1766639

91

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

Name :
Organization :
7

Bhutan
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

8

Bhutan

Email :

Ms. Monju Subba
Engineer, Weather and
climate services Division,
NCHM
msubba@nchm.gov.bt
thisismonju@gmail.com
+975 77489322
Mr. Pema Wangdi
Engineer, National Centre for
Hydrology & Meteorology
pwangdi@nchm.gov.bt
+975 77746734

Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :
9

India
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

1
0

India

Email :
:
Contact No.
Name :
Organization :

1
1

India
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

1
2

13

India

India

Email :

Dr. Jayanta Sarkar
Scientist F & Head,
Meteorological Centre,
Ahmedabad, Gujarat
jayantasarkar2003@y
ahoo.co.in
+91 9426805439
Dr. Manorama Mohanty
Scientist E & Head, FMO,
Ahmedabad, Gujarat

+91 9428909340
Mr. Bikramaditya Barik
Joint Secretary, Revenue &
Disaster Management
Department, Govt of Odisha
bbikramaditya168@gm
ail.com
+91 9938489674
Mr. Brijendra Kumar Mishra
Consultant, NDMA, New
Delhi
brijsmishra@gmail.com

Contact No : +91 8285057671
Name : Mr. Ankur Srivastava
Research Associate & Prog.
Organization :
Co- ordinator, GIDM
Email : rapc-gidm@gujarat.gov.in
Contact No :

7897999046

92

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

Name :
Organization :
14

India

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

15

India

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

16

Maldives

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

17

Maldives

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

18

Nepal

Email :
Contact No :
Name :
Organization :

19

Nepal
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :

F

Organization :
20

Nepal
Email :
Contact No. :

Trupti J. Vyas
Deputy Collector, SEOC,
Gandhinagar
trupti.vyas@rediffmail.com
9099016122
Sandeep k. Pandey
Senior Program Manager,
GIDM
apspm-gidm@gujarat.gov.in
7574802127
Mr. Ibrahim Miflal Fayaz
Assistant Engineer, Ministry
of Environment
Ibrahim.miflal@environ
ment.gov.mv
+960 7980958
Mr. Asim Shameem
Staff Sergeant, Ministry of
Defence
ashamy13@gmail.com
+960 9564978
Mr. Dilliram Acharya
Section Officer, Ministry of
Home Affairs, Nepal
dilliram241784@gmail.c om
+977 9858088880
Mr. Sunil Pokharel
Hydrologist, Department of
Hydrology & Meteorology,
Nepal
sunilpokharel2014@gm
ail.com
+977 9841154377
Ms. Sajeena Shakya
Meteorologist, Department
of Hydrology & Meteorology,
Nepal
sajeenashankya@gmail. com
+977 984 3064482

93

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

Name :
21

Pakistan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Organization :

22

Sri Lanka

Email :

Mr. Muhammad Tariq
Masood Farooka
Director, Provincial Disaster
Management Authority
tmfarooka@gmail.com
+92 3234444205
Mr. H M A C Bandara
Assistant Director (District),
Vidya Mawatha, Colombo
kegalle@dmc.gov.lk

Contact No. : +94 773957876

94

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

95

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

96

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Programme Note
Role of Earth Observation in Multi-Hazard Disaster Risk Assessment
and Monitoring Targets of the Sendai Framework
Background
Timely insights into natural hazards and the risks they pose to societies are more critical than ever
as the Natural hazards exacerbated by climate change threaten to jeopardize sustainable
development around the South Asia. Under a scenario of global warming of 1.5°C, an IPCC special
report (2018), says that ‘complex disaster risk is a new normal’. Climate risk accounts for 85 per
cent of the regional risk landscape. Lesser developed countries are particularly vulnerable to
climate induced disasters. Understanding the exposure of people and assets to hazards, forecasting
and preparing for the impacts of disasters, and planning emergency response operations require
accurate and easy-to-access information. Space technologies such as Earth observation satellites,
telecommunication technologies and global navigation satellite systems can provide this
information, supporting disaster risk reduction, preparedness, response and recovery.
Asia is particularly struck by disasters; 86 per cent of all people reported as affected by climaterelated disasters between 1998 and 2017 were located on the continent1. Cyclone Fani and Cyclone
Bulbul are just two examples of extremely powerful cyclones that recently hit the region.
In order for the SAARC Member States to be able to incorporate the routine use of space
technology-based solutions, there is a need to increase awareness, build national capacity and also
develop solutions that are customized and appropriate to the needs of the developing world.
The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR) has rightly assessed the need to
enhance the use of space technology like Geographic Information System (GIS), Satellite based
communication for assessment and management of risks and so on. As different nations have
different capabilities, the emphasis is also given on International Cooperation for technology
transfer and information sharing for comprehensive understanding of risks in the Region.
Acknowledging the utility of Space Technology in Disaster Management, SAARC countries are
engaged in development of applications based on space technology and explore its effectiveness

97

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

for Disaster Risk Reduction. It is useful for implementation of priorities for action laid down in
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction (SFDRR) i.e. Understanding Disaster Risk and
enhancing Disaster Preparedness for effective Response.
The event is the second regional event in South Asia under the umbrella of SAARC Disaster
Management Centre (IU) and United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA), through
its United Nations Platform for Space based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency
Response (UN-SPIDER), in collaboration the with International Water Management Institute
(IWMI), Sri Lanka and Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Asia and the
Pacific (CSSTEAP), India.
It is built on the outcome of the 1st regional workshop and capacity building programme on
‘utilization of space based and geospatial information for assisting achieving the targets of the
Sendai Framework’, which was held in December 2018 at SDMC (IU).

Objectives
1. Impart skills of using Earth observation techniques in multi-hazard disaster risk, with emphasis
on climate induced disasters - flood and drought disasters;
2. Demonstrate a pilot project conducted in one of the Member State on creating spatial data
repository for monitoring targets of the Sendai Framework;
3. One day workshop to discuss space and geospatial tools and technologies to support disaster
risk reduction and emergency response efforts

Expected Outcomes
The expected outcome is the enhanced cooperation and sharing of best practices amongst disaster
management agencies and experts in the region, deepen engagement with the countries in the
region to serve their specific needs and enhance regional cooperation for better utilization of space
based and geospatial information in disaster risk management.

Organisers


SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU); and

98

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------



United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA), through its United Nations
Platform for Space based Information for Disaster Management and Emergency Response
(UN-SPIDER)

Collaborators


International Water Management Institute (IWMI), Sri Lanka and



Centre for Space Science and Technology Education for Asia and the Pacific (UN affiliated),
India

Agenda
Day 1: December 4, 2019
Time

Program

09:30 – 10:00

Registration

10:00 – 10:30

Inauguration & Group Photo

SDMC (IU)

10:30 – 11:00
11:00 – 12:30

Tea/ Coffee
Refreshing the DRR terminologies, Sendai
Framework and Earth observation

12:30 – 13:30
13:30 – 15:00

Lead

Dr. Shirish Ravan,
UNOOSA

Lunch Break
ISRO Disaster Management System and G. Srinivasa Rao,
International Charter Space and Major ISRO
Disasters

15:00 – 15:15

Tea/ Coffee

15:15 – 16:30

Practicing satellite image processing and GIS Mr. Moses Duguru,
skills and getting familiarity with data, UNOOSA
software, open source satellite images etc.

Day 2: December 5, 2019
Time
09:30-09:45

Program
Reflections of previous day

Lead
Dr. Shirish Ravan

99

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

09:45-10:45

An overview of basic concepts and potential
of satellite remote sensing (optical and
microwave imaging) & GIS for flood hazards
mapping, monitoring and early warning.

10:45 – 11:00
11:00 – 12:30

Tea/ Coffee
Hands-on session to open source data,
tools/processing software’s, web portals and
online data repositories for multi-hazards
assessment.

12:30 – 13:30
13:30 – 14.45

Dr. C M Bhatt

Dr. C M Bhatt

Lunch Break
Hands-on session Cont.

14:45 – 15:00

Dr. C M Bhatt
Tea/ Coffee

Opportunities for enhancing knowledge on Dr. C M Bhatt
application of RS&GIS for natural hazards
assessment offered through CSTEAP/IIRS
16:15 – 19:00 Visit to Dandi Kutir, Gandhinagar
15:00 – 16:00

Day 3: December 6, 2019
Time
09:30-09:45

Program

Lead

09:45-10:45

Dr. C M Bhatt
Basics of remote sensing, types of satellite images Dr. Giriraj Amarnath,
available for multi-hazard risk assessment – open IWMI
source images, ways to access etc.

10:45 – 11:00

Tea/ Coffee

11:00 – 12:30

Dr. Giriraj Amarnath
Flood risk assessment using remote sensing Mr. Niranga
Alahacoon
data and modelling tools
IWMI
Lunch Break

12:30 – 13:30

13:30 – 15:00
15:00 – 15:15

Reflections of previous day

Dr. Giriraj Amarnath
Mr. Niranga
Flood risk assessment using remote sensing
Alahacoon
data and modelling tools
IWMI
Tea/ Coffee

100

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

15:15 – 16:30
17:15 – 19:30

Creating spatial data repository for monitoring Mr Moses Duguru
targets of the Sendai Framework
UNOOSA
Movie Screening (GIDM Auditorium)

Day 4: December 7, 2019
Time

Program

09:00 – 09:15

Review/reflection of Day–III

09:15 – 10:30

Space Technologies for
Management Applications

10:30 – 10:45
10:45 – 12:00

Lead
Dr. Giriraj
Disaster

Risk Dr Nilesh Desai
Associate Director
SAC, ISRO

Tea/ Coffee
Disaster risk transfer through flood index Dr. Giriraj Amarnath
insurance and bundling insurance solutions
using earth observation data and modelling IWMI
tools
Hands-on session on the disaster risk transfer
tools and approaches

12:00 – 13:00

Lunch Break

13:00 – 14:00

Hands-on session on the disaster risk transfer Dr. Giriraj Amarnath
tools and approaches
Dr. Surajit Ghosh

14:00 – 15:00

Open discussion session
Moderator
Working on the rapid response mapping Dr. Shirish Ravan
products

15:00 – 15:15

Tea/ Coffee

15:15 – 15:45
Wrap-up & Closing
16:00 – 19:30 Shopping (Ahmedabad)

SDMC (IU)

Day 5: December 8, 2019- SAARC Charter Day
06:45 – 11:30

Ahmedabad City (World Heritage City) Heritage Walk
Program

Time
13:00 – 13:15

Opening session
Introduction of the participants

101

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

13:15 – 13:45

Launch of Report: Insurance as an Agricultural Disaster Risk
Management
Tool: Evidence and Lessons Learned from South Asia
Presentation by Dr Giriraj, IWMI

13:45 – 14:15

Key findings of South Asia & Pacific Report: Specific to SAARC Region
Presentation by Dr. Sanjay Srivastava, UNESCAP (via Skype)
Panel Discussion

14:15 – 16:15

Contribution of Earth Observation Information and Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction: Opportunities, cooperation
and challenges
Panellists:
1.
2.
3.
4.

15:15 – 15:45
16:30 – 17:00

Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU) - Moderator
Dr. Shirish Ravan, UNOOSA/UN-SPIDER
Dr. Giriraj, IWMI
Mr. Moses Duguru, UNOOSA

Wrap-up
Group photo and Tea/ Coffee

Regional Workshop and Capacity Building Programme on
Role of Earth Observation in Multi Hazard Disaster Risk Assessment and
Monitoring Targets of the Sendai Framework

102

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Day 1: 4th December 2019
Opening Session
On behalf of the SAARC Disaster Management Centre, Ms. Prashansa Dixit welcomed and
introduced all the dignitaries on the dais, participants from respective SAARC Member States and
resource persons for the 18th Training Workshop on Role of Earth Observation in Multi Hazard
Disaster Risk Assessment and Monitoring Targets of the Sendai Framework.
Keynote Address by Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU)
Mr. P.K. Taneja welcomed all the delegates from
SAARC Member Countries and resource persons. In
his speech he talked about the importance of space
technologies in modern day disaster management
activities like rapid-mapping in all phases of the
disaster management cycle, GPS providing precise
location and navigation data, helping manage land
and infrastructure, and communications via satellites (SATCOM). He also talked about how
Government of India under Disaster Management Support (DMS) Programme, comprehensively
addresses various aspects of natural disasters in the country, using space-based inputs.
He explained how Science and Technology is important component of the Sendai Framework, that
has rightly assessed the need to enhance the use of space technology like GIS, Satellite based
communication for assessment and management of risks and so on. It also emphasis on
International Cooperation for technology transfer and information sharing for comprehensive
understanding of risks in the Region.
Further he said that this workshop will increase
awareness and capacity in the region to take necessary
steps in Earth Observation in Multi-hazard Disaster
Risk Assessment and requested all the participants
from SAARC member states to give their valuable
inputs and solicit their support for maximum
participation/ interaction during the sessions.

103

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

He also expressed his gratitude to UNOOSA/UNSPIDER, IWMI and ISRO for providing the
technical and administrative support in conceptualizing the program.

Session 1: Refreshing the DRR terminologies, Sendai Framework and Earth
observation
by: Dr Shirish Ravan, UNOOSA
Dr. Shirish Ravan from United Nations Office for
Outer Space Affairs (UNOOSA) explained how
United

Nations

Information

for

Platform
Disaster

for

Space

Management

based
and

Emergency Response (UN-SPIDER) is bridging gap
between technology provider and technology user.
He explained the origin and basics of Sendai
Framework DRR and how it is upgraded from Hyogo Framework. In HFA, progress was made in
disaster management but disaster risk was not discussed, which was taken up in SFDRR. Lessons
learnt from HFA were applied in SFDRR. SDGs also take lot of elements from SFDRR. SFDRR
focuses fully on disaster and has vast outcome. He also explained that SFDRR monitoring is data
driven because to identify progress on all seven targets, lot of data is required. But many times,
past data for comparison is not available, that is where earth observation plays an important role
because from there over past 50 years data can be recovered. He also gave a refresher on all major
terminologies in DRR.

Session 2: ISRO Disaster Management System and International Charter Space
and Major Disasters
by: Dr G. Srinivasa Rao, ISRO
In his presentation, Dr G.S Rao explained about
global disaster scenario and use of geospatial
technologies in DRR, as also mentioned in SFDRR.
Taking examples of various disasters, he presented
satellite imagery study. In his next presentation he

104

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

explained about International Charter, countries which are part of the charter that can utilize charter
satellite (around 50 satellites) data for any disaster study in their region and how the authorize user
(member countries) can request charter activation. He also explained that all the countries (even
which are non-member) can request charter activation free of cost (since 2012). Even countries
without any space satellite can request satellite imagery/data, provided only for major disasters.

Session 3: Practicing satellite image processing and GIS skills and getting
familiarity with data, software, open source satellite images etc.
by: Mr. Moses Duguru, UNOOSA
This was a hands-on session where participants got
practical training on software like Q-GIS, R, and
ESA’s SNAP. The exercise was to determine extent
of flooded area. The session was helpful in
understanding SAR satellite imagery as a viable
solution to process images quickly. And the use of
near real time flooding info to relief agencies that can be used for damage assessment.

Day 2: 5th December 2019
Session 1: An overview of basic concepts and potential of satellite remote sensing
(optical and microwave imaging) & GIS for flood hazards mapping, monitoring
and early warning
by: Dr C M Bhatt, IIRS, ISRO
Dr C M Bhatt, senior scientist in disaster
management studies department at IIRS, presented
statistics of previous year’s disaster loss data. He
explained the situation of floods and rainfall
variability and gave example of 2019 monsoon with
extreme rainfall events as compared to previous

105

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

years. He talked about the importance of international cooperation; cooperation of neighbouring
countries required to manage floods. He also explained flood hazard focussing on the urban floods
and anthropogenic factors as major cause of these hazards.
While talking about advantages of Remote Sensing for hydro-meteorological hazards, he
explained about types of satellite- polar and sun synchronous/ active and passive satellite, their
coverage capacity- be it inaccessible or hazardous area (eg. in case of forest fire), use in rapid
damage assessment and pre & post disaster changes. He presented various satellite imagery on
floods in different region with changing resolution. He also discussed methodology for flood
delineation, flood depth/extent, flood hazard zonation, flood inundation simulation, and flood risk
analysis.

Session 2: Hands-on session to open source data, tools/processing software’s, web
portals and online data repositories for multi-hazards assessment
by: Dr C M Bhatt, IIRS, ISRO
This session was about Open Source Data Access for
Floods Disasters, in which participants learnt about
portals that provide free data like: Disaster AlertsGDACS, Visualization of Rainfall- JAXA Rainfall
Watch System, Flood Extent- MODIS NRT Global
Flood Mapping Portal, Visualize NRT data related to
Floods- Worldview, Elevation Data-USGS Earth Explorer, Flood Satellite Data (Optical): USGS
Earth Explorer, Flood Satellite Data (Microwave): ASF's Data Portal, Administrative boundariesGADM Portal.
The session demonstrated utilization of online data repositories and tools which could be accessed
openly and will be helpful for decision-makers and planners for taking measures to mitigate the
impact of flood disaster.

Session 3: Opportunities for enhancing knowledge on application of RS & GIS
for natural hazards assessment offered through CSTEAP/IIRS
by: Dr C M Bhatt, IIRS, ISRO

106

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

In this session, Dr C M Bhatt talked about Centre for Space Science and Technology Education
for Asia and the Pacific, India (CSSTEAP) as the first regional centre of UNOOSA established in
1995. He explained about the educational programmes offered, facilities provided to the
participants, and exposure during the course.
Visit to Dandi Kutir, Gandhinagar

Day 3: 6th December 2019
Session 1: Basics of remote sensing, types of satellite images available for multihazard risk assessment – open source images, ways to access etc.
by: Dr Giriraj Amarnath, IWMI
Dr Giriraj’s talking points were on the hydro-met
hazards and Integrated Drought Risk Management
(IDRM) framework.
He discussed on the flood and drought indices, maps,
insurance options for resilient communities, and how
socio-economic loss data and water data is helpful for insurance purpose.
He presented a few cases of using satellite imagery, for example, in Bangladesh 2019 flood claim,
Sri Lanka- Climate and Food Security Bulletin 2019, Senegal Drought Risk
Mapping, and Flood proofing communities and agriculture resilience, Bihar.
He showcased a product: Providing farmers with information from datasets- Bundled Solutions of
Index Insurance with Climate Information & Seed Systems to manage Agricultural Risks
(BICSA). The core idea of BICSA implementation is to adapt agricultural technologies (Seeds +
Insurance) and scaling of gender responsive ARM strategies for vulnerable smallholder farmers
through bundled solutions. The kit provided to the farmers has resilient seeds, fertilizers and
information.
In continuation to this session, Mr. Moses (UNOOSA) explained in detail all the components of
UNSPIDER Knowledge Portal.

107

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Also, Surajit Ghosh from IWMI explained about use of
Google Earth Engine- variety of dataset available, APIs and
code editor. He practically showed working of google earth
engine, coding and imposing NDVI on satellite imagery.

Session 2: Flood risk assessment using remote sensing data and modelling tools
by: Mr. Niranga Alahacoon, IWMI
This was a hands-on session on Risk assessment. Mr.
Niranga explained the basics of risk, components of
risk equation and data required for each component
(Hazard, Vulnerability and Exposure) for flood risk
assessment. He clarified the difference between risk
and risk assessment (assessment as quantification
and evaluation i.e. taking measures for reducing risk).
Simple exercise on assessing values of hazard, vulnerability, elements at risk, building value and
damage was done by the participants, by showing example of construction on flood prone area.

Session 3: Creating spatial data repository for monitoring targets of the Sendai
Framework
by: Mr. Moses Duguru, UNOOSA
Mr. Moses briefly explained about SFDRR and its
monitoring. For the Sendai framework, priorities of
action cannot be monitored but targets can be
monitored. Targets which could be monitored by
geospatial information- target B (number of affected
people), target C (economic loss in relation to GDP),
and target D (damage to critical infrastructure and basic services) and the resources required for
monitoring various sub targets.

108

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

He explained the Sendai monitoring training server, spatial data repository portal, and Sri Lanka
as pilot country for Sendai Asia monitoring. (Link for Sri Lanka spatial data repository portalhttps://public.tableau.com/profile/unspiderbeijing#!/vizhome/SpatialRepositoryforSendaiFramew
orkMonitoringintheSAARCRegion/Story1?publish=yes)
Movie ‘Geostorm’ was screened for the participants at the GIDM auditorium.

Day 4: 7th December 2019
The day started with brief sessions taken by: Mr. Moses- Hands on session on R software, NDVI
exercise.
Dr Giriraj- Session on application of Google earth engine and creating maps.
Mr. Niranga- Session on Calculating Risk, Risk Assessment on Excel sheet. (This session was
later carried on as session 2)

Session 1: Space technologies for Disaster Risk Management Applications
by: Dr Nilesh Desai, Associate Director, SAC,
ISRO
Dr Nilesh Desai from ISRO, explained in detail
about ISRO and SAC centre. He also presented
vulnerability of India and neighbouring countries to
disasters. He described about ISRO’s world largest
domestic satellite system, in which India has 15
Satcom satellites covering the Indian region. These satellites have application in
telecommunication, meteorological data collection, navigation, disaster management support
system, development activities, etc. India’s DMS and its proposed upgradation. ISRO is also
working on tsunami and cyclone early warning communication system. He gave a brief on
websites for earth observation and meteorological data: Bhuvan (NRSC), MOSDAC, and VEDAS.

Session 2: Hands on session on the disaster risk transfer tools and approaches

109

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

by: Dr Giriraj Amarnath and Mr. Niranga Alahacoon, IWMI
This session was continued for risk calculation and risk mapping using Q-GIS software, by the
participants. Dr Giriraj explained creating graphs through flood data which are useful for the
insurers to decide on giving out the insurance.

Session 3: Open discussion session-Working on the rapid response mapping
products
Moderator: Dr Giriraj Amarnath, IWMI

Dr Giriraj explained the activation of charter on the International Disaster Charter website. He
also explained how to prepare a map during the disaster, emergency response map, and its
usefulness for the government and policy makers.
Printed maps of different regions were shared on each table for participants to understand and
analyse the assessment maps and note down their analysis. Then a round table group discussion
was done in which all the participants shared their understanding about the map with the resource
person. This exercise, at the end of the workshop, was very helpful for the participants to clearly
understand the satellite imagery and the assessment maps. They could easily come up with the
analysis points because of the understanding gained throughout the training workshop.

110

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

Day 5: 8th December 2019- SAARC Charter Day
Opening Session
On the occasion of 35th SAARC Charter Day, Director,
SAARC DMC (IU), addressed all the delegates from
SAARC member states. The Charter establishing the
Association was signed by the leaders of the seven South
Asian Countries on 8th December 1985 during their first
Summit meeting in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Director, SDMC(IU), while explaining the Charter, spoke about how and with what objectives and
principles the Charter was formed. The 13th SAARC Summit at Dhaka in November 2005
considered the issues of regional cooperation for preparedness and mitigation of national disasters
and approved the offer of India to set up a SAARC Disaster Management Centre (SDMC) in New
Delhi. The Centre was inaugurated on 10th October 2006. Later, forty ninth session of the
Programming Committee (in 2014 at Kathmandu) decided to close the centre. Based on directives
of SAARC Foreign/ External Affairs Ministers Meeting held at Kathmandu in March 2016,
SDMC-IU was setup again in the GIDM campus in November 2016 with the expanded role.

Launch of Publications
On this occasion, two publications were also launched by the Director, SDMC(IU) and Dignitaries.
1. Asia-Pacific Disaster Report 2019
2. licy Brief- Insurance as an agricultural disaster risk management tool: Evidence and lessons
learned from South Asia

111

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

Session: Key findings of South Asia and Pacific report, specific to SAARC Region
by: Dr Sanjay Srivastava, UNESCAP
Dr Sanjay from UNESCAP joined the session
through skype. He presented the findings of AsiaPacific Disaster Report 2019 with focus on SAARC
region. He talked about the disaster risk hotspots in
South Asia- transboundary river basin (where large
number of floods happen) and South West region
(which is prone to drought, dust storm). These hotspots are expanding and becoming more
intensified. The report takes into account convergence of disaster risks with critical socioeconomic vulnerabilities which are threating sustainable development in the subregion. The report
also covers the slow onset disaster and extreme events to calculate annualised losses. He also
explained the computable general equilibrium model to calculate how disaster affect the poverty,
overarching goal of SDG ‘leave no one behind’, multi hazard risk hotspots and gave example of
Indian policies like AADHAAR that helped to promotes inclusion and empower at-risk
communities.
Post this session, Dr Giriraj also presented on IWMI’s Disaster Insurance Program, explained
about the policy brief and showed a video on Index based flood insurance- pilot project in Bihar.

Panel Discussion: Contribution of Earth Observation Information and Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction- Opportunities, cooperation and
challenges
A panel discussion chaired and moderated by
Director, SDMC(IU), was held in presence of
panellists- Dr Shirish Ravan, Dr Giriraj
Amarnath, and Mr. Moses Duguru.
The panel discussed on the questions like: key
challenges for the governments in utilizing the
space-based technologies to achieve targets of

112

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

the Sendai Framework, solutions for risk transfer, Sri Lanka on preparing geospatial repository for
achieving targets of the Sendai Framework, etc.
An open discussion on women participation in major activities of DRR in the South Asian Region,
was also done. Delegates from member states discussed on how member states can ensure
participation of women and ensure gender inclusive implementation of DRR.

Rating (in%)

Feedback from Participants and Closing Remarks
110
100
90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10

84

81

87
75

93

98

At the end of all the sessions, feedback

97
79

from the participants was taken on various
criteria.

The

rating

given

by

the

participants is shown in the graph.
During the closing ceremony, feedback
from the participants was discussed in
detail

and

points

of

improvements/suggestions were noted.
In the valedictory session, Director, SDMC(IU), gave a vote of thanks to all the participants and
resource persons and ceremony ended with certificate distribution and group photograph.

113

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

List of Participants
#
1

Country
Name
Afghanistan

Participants
Name
Mr. Abdul Ahad
Kohdamani

Designation & Contact Details

Photograph

Head of Disaster Risk Assessment,
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
+93 700254590
abdulahadkohdamani@yahoo.com

2

Afghanistan

Mr. Shirin Agha
Samim

Senior Advisor, Afghanistan
National Disaster Management
Authority
+93 706500405
shirinagha.samim@gmail.com

3

Afghanistan

Mr. Zabihullah
Siawash

Manager of Vulnerable Areas of
GIS, Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
+93 792291645
siawash.asdvo@gmail.com

4

Bangladesh

Ms. Fatima Tuz
Zohora

Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Defence, Bangladesh
+880 1712655290
fatimazzohora@gmail.com

5

Bangladesh

Mr. Md. Aminul
Islam

Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Disaster Management & Relief,
Bangladesh
+880 1711447276
dsaudit@modmr.gov.bd
aminulislam67@yahoo.com

114

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

#
6

Country
Name
Bangladesh

Participants
Name
Mr. Md. Korban
Ali

Designation & Contact Details

Photograph

Deputy Secretary, Ministry of
Disaster Management & Relief,
Bangladesh
+880 1816414621
korbanbag@gmail.com

7

Bhutan

Mr. Thuenzang
Choephel

Engineer, Department of
Information Technology and
Telecom, Bhutan
tchoephel@dit.gov.bt

8

Bhutan

Mr. Tobgay

Program Manager, Department of
Disaster Management, MHCA,
Bhutan
+975 77238184
tobgay1@mohca.gov.bt
tobgayhaatu@gmail.com

9

Bhutan

Mr. Samdrup
Dorji

Deputy Chief Survey Engineer,
Centre for GIS Coordination,
National Land Commission, Bhutan
+975 17445445
samdrupdorji@nlcs.gov.bt

10

India

Mr. Ajay Kumar
Katuri

Sr. Consultant, Policy & Planning,
NDMA
+91 9998156106
ajay.katuri@gmail.com

11

India

Mr. Khalid
Mehmood

Project Manager, BISAG,
Gandhinagar
+91 9909945010
bisagsp10@gujarat.gov.in

115

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

#
12

Country
Name
Maldives

Participants
Name
Mr. Abdulla
Hafiz Abdul
Sattar Ali

Designation & Contact Details

Photograph

Assistant Meteorologist of MMS,
Maldives Meteorological Service
+960 7865718
abdulla.hafiz@met.gov.mv

13

Maldives

Mr. Ibrahim
Waheed

Meteological Technician, Maldives
Meteorological Service
+960 7977829
ibrahim.waheed@met.gov.mv

14

Nepal

Mr. Chirinjivi
Giri

Deputy Chief of District, District
Administration Office, Sunsari
+977 9852044151
giribardiya@gmail.com

15

Nepal

Mr. Himlal
Bishwakarma

Deputy Chief of District, District
Administration Office, Rolpa
+977 9847553025
himalsagar2045@gmail.com

16

Nepal

Mr. Sagar K C

Administrative Officer, District
Administration Office, Nawalparasi
+977 9849610282
sagar.kc@nepal.gov.np

17

Pakistan

Mr. Muhammad
Kashif

Deputy Director, Provincial
Disaster Management Authority,
Peshawar
+92 3219169636
kashifmuhammad5@gmail.com

116

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

#
18

Country
Name
India

Participants
Name
Dr Sandeep
Pandey

Designation & Contact Details

Photograph

APSPM, GIDM, Gujarat
+91 7574802288
apspm-gidm@gujarat.gov.in

19

India

Ms. Patel Asha

Assistant Engineer, Flood Control
Cell, Gandhinagar
+91 9173537008
asha_patel44@yahoo.co.in

20

India

Mr. Jigar D Patel

Assistant Engineer, Flood Control
Cell, Gandhinagar
+91 9979487560
jigar.civil87@gmail.com

21

India

Mr. Sanjay Joshi

Director (F&A) & Director (DM),
GIDM, Gandhinagar
+91 9978407173
directorfa-gidm@gujarat.gov.in

117

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

118

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

119

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

Programme Note
Rapid Structural & Non-Structural Risk Assessment of School Buildings
Background
The South Asian Region is highly vulnerable to the impacts of hazardous events. The region
frequently suffers from natural hazards including earthquakes, cyclones, floods, landslides, and
droughts. This region is also considered to be one of the most seismically active regions in the
world. The Himalayan belt extending across Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, Nepal, and Bhutan is
identified as a "very high seismic hazard area" in the region. In addition to the Himalayan seismic
belt, a large part of Mid-Western Pakistan, some parts of Western India, isolated pockets in Central
India, and the Chittagong Hill Tract district of Bangladesh are also considered to be at high risk
due to earthquakes. Also, the most vulnerable population lives in the Ganges–Brahmaputra–
Meghna (GBM) river basin, which is the world’s largest river basin and is shared by four South
Asian countries Bangladesh, Nepal, India and Bhutan.
At global level, Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction identifies “Substantial reduction
of disaster damage to critical infrastructure and disruption of basic services, among them health
and educational facilities, through developing resilience” as among its main targets by 2030.
Schools are critical infrastructure where children are expected to spend majority of their time.
Natural hazards and climate change events have a devastating effect on children’s education. These
events can cause direct harm to children, teachers, and the school community, damaging or
destroying school infrastructure. A safe and secure environment is a prerequisite for effective
teaching and learning. Thus, ensuring safety of children, teachers and staff members during
disasters is necessary.
A hazard poses different types of damages to the school buildings. These damages can be structural
and non-structural. Structural components of the building are the load bearing system (i.e. vertical
and lateral force resisting systems) like walls and building frame. The non-structural components
are the architectural elements and building contents which do not affect the integrity of the
structural support system like false ceiling, windows, fixture, shelves, etc. During disaster, damage
to structural components can render whole building inoperable but in case the structure is intact

120

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

and the non- structural components are damaged (falling hazards), the building cannot function
when it is most needed. In case of a school building, safety of children during disaster and
education continuity post disaster is important. Also, many times schools act as temporary
emergency shelters. Thus, as a preparedness measure, assessment and mitigation of structural and
non-structural hazards play a key role in maintaining the functionality of school building during
any disaster.
Developing structural and implementing non-structural risk mitigation strategy for schools also
addresses the component of local DRR strategies of the target E of the SFDRR “Substantially
increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk reduction strategies”
The training aims to highlight the need for robust school infrastructure and understand how
different hazards can affect the infrastructure and hamper education.

Objectives
At the end of the training the participants would be able to:
1.

List structural and non-structural elements and its hazardous impact on the building

2.

Assess structural and non-structural vulnerabilities in the school building

3.

Acquire skill to conduct non-structural risk mitigation of the components

4.

Understand skill to reduce impact of non-structural elements (i.e. falling hazard) that can
cause personal injury or loss of function, if damaged.

Expected Outcomes
The program would be able to develop capacity of regional stakeholders towards understanding of
structural and non-structural elements and acquire skill to develop resilient school infrastructure.

Organisers
•

SAARC Disaster Management Centre (IU); and

•

GeoHazard Society, India

121

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

Target Audience
Senior administrative officers from education ministry & department, disaster management
authorities and engineers from education ministry & department.

Agenda
Day 1: January 21, 2020
Time

Program

09:00 - 9:30

Registration

9:30 – 10:00

Inauguration & Group Photo

10:00 – 10:15
10:15 – 11:30

Tea/Coffee Break
Disaster Risk Management Terminologies & DRR
Strategies

Lead
SDMC(IU)

Mr Hari Kumar
Regional
Coordinator for
South Asia



11.30 - 12:45

12.45 - 13:45
13:45 – 14:10
14:10 – 15:20

Introduction to earthquake hazards in
South Asia
 Understanding structural component of the
buildings
Rapid Visual Screening of Buildings as per Indian
Standards and understanding the impact of
earthquake on building
Lunch Break
Travel to Amiyapur School
Rapid Visual Screening (RVS) of Building
(Amiyapur School) as per Indian Standards

15:20 – 17:00

Visit to Earthquake Lab (LD College of
Engineering, Ahmedabad)
17:00 – 19:30 Shopping, Ahmedabad

GeoHazard
Society (GHS)
Prof. C S Sanghvi
LDCE

Prof. C S Sanghvi
LDCE
SDMC(IU)

19:30 - 22:00 Dinner at GIDM

Day 2: January 22, 2020
Time
09:30 – 10:45

Program
Multi Hazard profile of South Asia

Lead
Mr Hari Kumar, GHS

122

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

10:45 – 11:00
11:00 – 12:15
12:15 – 13:15
13:15 – 15:00

Tea/Coffee Break
Understanding Non-Structural risks in schools
and hospitals

Mr Pranav Sethi, GHS

Lunch Break
Common Internal and external falling hazards
(special focus on hospitals and schools)

Md. Mudassir, GHS

15:00 – 15:15

Tea/Coffee Break

15:15 - 16:00

Cost Benefit Analysis for Structural and Non
Structural Risk Mitigation – Skype Session

16:00 – 17:00

Exercise: Action Plan for NSM for Member
States (Briefing)

17:00 – 17:15 Review of Day 1 and Day 2
17:30 – 19:30 Movie Screening at GIDM
19:30 - 22:00 Dinner at GIDM

Dr Padeep Vaidya,
T. U. Teaching
Hospital,
Maharajgunj, Nepal
SDMC(IU)
SDMC(IU)

Day 3: January 23, 2020
Time

Program

Lead

09:30 – 10:00 Travel to the Amiyapur School

SDMC(IU)

10:00 -11:15 Group Exercise: Identification of Falling Hazards in
school

Mohd. Mudassir GHS

11:15 – 11:30

Tea/Coffee Break

11:30 – 13:30 Group Exercise: Development of Strategy for NSM Mr Pranav Sethi
GHS
13:30 – 14:30
Lunch Break
14:30 – 16:00

Techniques of non-structural risk mitigation, issues
and challenges

16:00 - 16:15

Mr Pranav Sethi &
Mohd. Mudassir
GHS

Tea/Coffee Break

16:15 – 17:30 Fire Hazard Prevention and Preparedness
for School Buildings

Mr Abhay
Purandre Fire
Safety Expert

19:30 - 22:00 Dinner at GIDM

123

-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

Day 4: January 24, 2020
Time
09:30 – 11:00

Program
Hands –on Exercise Mitigation of Non-Structural Hazard


Participatory NSM in GIDM Building

11:00 – 11: 15
Tea/Coffee Break
11:15 – 11:30 Travel to Amiyapur School
11:30 – 14:00
14:00 – 14:45
14:45 – 15:30

Hands –on Exercise Mitigation of Non-Structural Hazard in
school
Lunch Break
Way Ahead - Action Plan for Non-structural
Mitigation Measures in Schools

Lead
Md. Mudassir
GHS

SDMC(IU)
Pranav Sethi
GHS
Director,
SDMC (IU)

15:30 - 16:15 Valedictory session followed by Tea Break
16:15 – 19:00 Visit to Dandi Kutir, Gandhinagar
19:30 - 22:00 Dinner at GIDM

Regional Workshop and Training Programme on
Rapid Structural & Non-Structural Risk Assessment of School Buildings

Day 1: 21stJanuary 2020
Opening Session

124

-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

On behalf of the SAARC Disaster Management Centre,
Mr. Sumedh Patil welcomed and introduced all the
dignitaries on the dais; Mr. P K Taneja Director SDMC
(IU), Mr. Hari Kumar from GeoHazard Society, and Prof.
C S Sanghvi from L D College of Engineering,
participants from respective SAARC Member States and
resource persons for the 19th Training Workshop on Rapid
Structural and Non-structural Risk Assessment of School Buildings.
Keynote Address by Mr. P.K. Taneja, Director, SDMC (IU)
Mr. P.K. Taneja welcomed all the participants from SAARC Member Countries and resource
persons. In his speech, he talked about the importance of school safety in our region which faces
adverse impacts of natural and man-made hazards. He said that building safe schools should be of
prime concern for all the stakeholders involved like architects, engineers, policy makers, and
administrators. Schools serve a dual purpose where children and their caregivers spend their
maximum time and also safe schools are used as evacuation shelters during emergencies. He
highlighted two targets of the Sendai framework, target D and E, which identify the concern of
school safety and making strategies for the same. He also highlighted that non-structural risk
mitigation measures at schools might sound like a simple task but if such measures are not taken
then the non-structural building elements can pose great damage in terms of life loss, injury, and
economic loss.
Further he said that this workshop will increase awareness and capacity in the region to take
necessary steps towards implementation of DRR
strategies with respect to structural and nonstructural risk assessment and management of school
buildings with focus towards non-structural risk
mitigation and requested all the participants from
SAARC member states to give their valuable inputs
and solicit their support for maximum participation/
interaction during the sessions.

125

-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

He also expressed his gratitude to GeoHazard Society for providing the technical and
administrative support in conceptualizing this program and also to State Project Director of Sarv
Siksha Abhiyan for providing the school building for RVS and hands-on mitigation exercise

Session 1: Disaster Risk Management Terminologies & DRR Strategies
By: Mr Hari Kumar, GeoHazard Society
Mr. Hari Kumar started the first session of the day by discussing
the terminologies of Disaster Management and DM cycle like
disaster, preparedness, response, recovery, relief, rehabilitation,
and mitigation; and explained the difference in the meanings. He
quoted examples of few big disaster events in India like Bhuj
earthquake that happened in 2001 and the losses/injury that occurred due to failure of critical
infrastructure. The super cyclone of Odisha and the storm surge that came with it surging 20 km
in land destroying the agriculture, infrastructure failed, etc. Rebuilding/recovery was a tremendous
job in these events. But now the slogan is ‘Build back better’- which means the recovery processes
are an opportunity to build in a resilient manner. Recovery should include mitigation measure.
Explaining this he gave example of Japan, the way people in Japan learn from disasters and build
accordingly. During Kobe earthquake, 1995 (6.9M) 5530 people lost their lives but post that
earthquake (Hokkaido- 8.3M, Honshu- 7.2M, etc) no earthquake event took any life or became a
disaster. This shows how one destructive earthquake made them to take onto building resilience.
He showed photographs of destructive earthquake that destroyed schools in Nepal, Bhutan, etc.
He then explained the equation of Risk Mitigation that involves increasing capacity and decreasing
vulnerability.
Further Mr. Hari discussed about earthquakes and how do they occur. He explained the plate
tectonics; the different types of plate boundaries- convergent, divergent, and transformative
boundaries. How stress develops between plates and is released causing earthquake. Talking about
the South Asian region, he explained the rate at which Indian plate is sub-ducting under the
Eurasian plate which leads to formation of Himalayas and the reason for major earthquakes in the
region.

126

-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

Session 2: RVS of buildings as per Indian Standards & understanding impact of
earthquake on buildings
by: Prof. CS Sanghvi, L D College of Engineering
Prof. Sanghvi explained how earthquake hazard
becomes a manmade disaster, because earthquakes
don’t kill people but buildings do. Earthquakes are
unpredictable event, therefore we design earthquake
resistant buildings and not earthquake proof. The
reason behind this is, designing an earthquake proof
building means it will suffer no damage at all but constructing such a building will be very
expensive. Also big earthquakes or earthquakes of very high magnitude are not frequent. In
earthquake resistant building design, the building will suffer minor damage but not collapse. So
this is an economical option, also small earthquakes are frequent. In case of Bhuj earthquake, the
expected shaking intensity was VII as per the code but actual it was VIII and buildings were weak
in the city hence, they collapse.
He then explained about the structural audit that helps in decision making whether the building
needs to be repaired (corrective measure- retrofitting) or demolished & rebuilt. He explained the
methodology of structural audit- what all information is to be collected, description of buildingwhat are the areas of damage, detailed visual inspection- what to look at in external inspection.
Various NDT (Non Destructive Tests) to know the strength of structural members and choose right
retrofitting/repairing measures. To give a better understanding, he showed photographs of various
types of building damage during earthquake like open storey failure, short column effect, torsional
effect, X cracks, buckling of column, spalling of concrete, etc.
After a half-day session of Mr. Hari Kumar and Prof Sanghvi, participants were taken to a nearby
primary government school for better understanding of classroom session.
Mr. Nipun Chowksy, State Project Engineer, Sarv Siksha Abhiyaan (SSA)- Sharing
experience on activities taken in SSA for school safety

127

-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

Mr. Chowksy shared his experience of 2001 Bhuj earthquake when buildings were inclined at 30
degree, lot of stone masonry buildings collapsed like a heap, 2-3 storey height buildings were
mostly collapsed, soft storey failure was a common damage. Buildings constructed by government,
using building ties were found safe. Under SSA safe school and accommodation buildings are
built. Bands are provided at all level of the building. Building height does not go beyond G+1.
Only RCC buildings are constructed and no masonry buildings, keeping 2001 earthquake in mind.
Post 2001 lot of retrofitting, repairing work in various areas of Gujarat has happened. Recently
33,000 schools have been inspected grade wise and work like demolition, repair, minor repair has
been taken up accordingly.

Rapid Visual Screening (RVS) of Building (Amiyapur School) as per Indian
Standards
At the school, the participants were divided in five groups for RVS of school building. The school
premises had two major blocks assessed by two teams each and few smaller blocks assessed by
one team. Each group was given a RVS form for the assessment of building. (Form attached in
Annex 1)
After an hour of assessment, group discussion was
done where all the teams discussed about their
observations.
Some of the observations are as follows:


At most of the places, a common damage was
visible that is spalling of concrete causing
exposure of reinforcement. Prof Sanghvi
explained the cause behind such damage is the
maintenance issue. Due to leakage or bad
quality material, dampness creeps in causing
rusting of reinforcement due to which it expands and the concrete cover over it falls.

128

-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------



Horizontal crack between roof and parapet on the external wall- mainly because parapet is
constructed separately and is not the structural member. Thus, at the joint of roof slab and
parapet such cracks occur.

Visit to Earthquake Engineering Lab (at LD College of Engineering, Ahmedabad)
After the assessment exercise at the school, all the participants were taken to the earthquake lab at
the L D College of Engineering, Ahmedabad. Here the concept of behavior of different types of
building and structural system during an earthquake was explained, by Prof Sanghvi and Prof
Patel, with the help of various models and shake table. This helped the participants in
understanding how earthquake forces act differently on short buildings, tall buildings, buildings
constructed with different materials, mass of the building, building structure type, etc. and how
damages occur or are sustained by the building. Also, earthquake resistant techniques were
explained by showing example of base isolation model on the shake table.

Day 2: 22nd January 2020
Session 1: Structural Retrofitting and Structural Risk Mitigation

129

-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

by: Prof. Manish Kumar, IIT Gandhinagar
Prof Manish discussed in depth about the structural
damages in different type of structural systems with
photos from Nepal Earthquake. He explained how
components of structural system (roof slab, beam,
column, foundation) transfer load and what the
earthquake load path is in this system. He showcased the different structural systems used in the
IIT Gandhinagar campus viz RCC frame and confined masonry, and explained what are the major
differences between them. He also talked about various vernacular or traditional structural systems
like Dhajji dewari, Newari houses, Dry stone construction, Bhonga houses etc. found in various
earthquake prone regions because of their resistance quality towards earthquake load.
He explained the use of RVS methodology post 2001 Bhuj earthquake when 300 Reinforced
Concrete frame buildings were surveyed immediately after the quake and damage grades were
assigned. Additional survey was conducted few years later and based on this study of damage data,
a paper was published proposing an RVS method for RC frame buildings in India. He then
explained how vulnerability scoring (scores based on different criteria) is done and explained
issues due to bad maintenance, re-entrant corners, soft story, and short column and remedial
measures for the same. Then damage grade G1 TO G4 is assigned to the building based on the
score and buildings are prioritized for detailed evaluation and rehabilitation.
He discussed the IS code 15988:2013- evaluation criteria, preliminary evaluation, detailed
evaluation, seismic strengthening. And highlighted other relevant documents like the masonry
society code 406, FEMA 310:1998, IITK-GSDMA-EQ6:2005, etc. He then showed examples of
seismic strengthening and retrofitting of buildings.

Session 2: Understanding non-structural risks
in schools and hospitals
by: Mr Pranav Sethi, GHS
In this interactive session, Mr. Pranav explained what
mainly comprises of non-structural elements in a

130

-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

building. For the idea of safe schools, non-structural or falling hazards must be understood. He
asked the participants what can be considered the most preferable time of occurrence of an
earthquake to which most of them said day time. He then explained, considering daytime as
preferable time because mostly people are out of their homes, at work but at this time more
percentage of children are affected, as they are in school.
He quoted examples of day time earthquakes where schools have been affected. Eg. On 8th
October 2005 a magnitude 7.8 earthquake shocked Pakistan at 08:50 am. It was a Saturday
morning when mostly children were at school. As a result of which 20,000 children were killed
because 10,000 schools collapsed. Similarly, the Bhuj earthquake of 26th January 2001 occurred
at morning time when children were in school for Republic day celebration. 872 children died in
school. Thus school safety is important. He listed out points on what happens in a school during a
large earthquake- violent shaking, falling items, blocked exit, fire might develop, power outrage,
etc.
Apart from building collapse causing life loss, he also quoted examples like: In a school during
earthquake 12 girls died despite no building collapse, but because of stampede during evacuation.
All these aspects are important and should be considered. Steps towards school safety are 1. Basic
Disaster Awareness- it does not only involves talking about the disasters and their impact but also
discussing the management of them; 2. Preparedness- we are many time so focused on response
that we forget to work on preparedness; 3. Drills- is like a mock test before any exam so that one
is aware what to do in real situation; 4. Falling hazards; 5. Retrofitting.
Addressing falling hazards (non-structural mitigation) is a cheaper option than retrofitting, it’s all
about cost. Also retrofit involves specialized help while non- structural mitigation can be done by
anyone. The phenomenon of earthquake affecting the building is very similar to that of breaks in
a bus and how our body behaves. The earthquake forces work in all directions, buildings sway and
so does its content. Building may not collapse but still earthquake can cause losses. It is important
to observe the surroundings and imagine the earthquake scenario. He showed photographs of nonstructural ‘messive’ damage in offices, library, labs, etc. disrupting the functioning of the building.
Director, SAARC DMC, also gave his view on how to avoid ‘messive damage’ by following a
method of 5S in our daily life. The 5S methodology is about organizing workplace that uses a list

131

-----------------------Page 136 End-----------------------

of five Japanese words translated as "Sort", "Set In
order", "Shine", "Standardize" and "Sustain".
The list describes how to organize a workspace for
efficiency and effectiveness by identifying and storing
the items used, maintaining the area and items, and
sustaining the new order.
Non-structural hazards can happen anywhere, any building, thus awareness in this aspect is also
necessary. For avoiding the non-structural hazard, anyone can do the mitigation (no specialized
engineering is required).
Non-structural elements can fall, slide or topple and cause injury or life loss (L), block exit (E),
financial loss (F), operational loss (O). Participants identified the non-structural hazards in the
seminar hall and what harm they can do from L, E, O, F options- false ceiling (O), camera (F),
cupboard (E), etc. Next it was discussed on how to protect oneself from falling hazard during an
earthquake, first thing to do is duck, cover, hold.
A participant shared an example of a girl who was taught to follow the universally accepted
technique of ‘Duck, Cover, Hold’ in case of an earthquake. During an earthquake she was playing
outside the house, in an open area. On feeling the earthquake shaking she came running inside the
house and sat under the table, following the taught technique. And the house collapsed. Similar
thing happened during Nepal earthquake also. Thus, it is important to convey the reason and
condition behind any such technique, which in this case is - only applicable when one is inside a
building during earthquake. Conveying complete information is necessary, the universally
accepted technique is not a full proof thing but
it is a way of protecting oneself. Discussing
further on this, Mr. Pranav explained the
correct posture of protecting our head and neck
(spine) in case there is no table in a room to do
drop, cover, hold. All the participants practiced
drop, cover, hold. Also places where drop,
cover, hold should not be done are chemistry
lab, computer lab.

132

-----------------------Page 137 End-----------------------

Session 3: Common Internal and external falling hazards (special focus on
hospitals and schools)
By: Md. Mudassir, GHS
Md. Mudassir showed various photographs of schools and
hospitals and discussed the non-structural hazard in each
photograph. The elements that can cause damage both on the
inside and outside of the buildings.

Session 4: Cost Benefit Analysis for Structural and Non-Structural Risk
Mitigation – Skype Session
By: Dr Pradeep Vaidya, T. U. Teaching Hospital,
Maharajgunj, Nepal
Dr Vaidya discussed why schools are important in
disaster?- they hold the life safety of large number of
children, they are used as shelters many times, and keep the
children occupied and provide learning environment post
disaster (which is a difficult task) to avoid distress.
He explained three elements of safe school which are safe structure, school disaster management
plan, and prepared staff.
For structural elements, cost is a deciding factor in determining whether to retrofit or reconstruct.
If the cost of retrofitting comes out to be higher then it is preferable to reconstruct.
There have been cases where structure was intact but damage to non-structural elements rendered
buildings non-functional like hospitals during Nepal 2015 earthquake.
He showed a comparison between investment in structural and non-structural mitigation to
enhance the performance of hospitals and the result achieved as cost benefit.
Exercise: Action Plan for NSM for Member States (Briefing)-SDMC (IU)

133

-----------------------Page 138 End-----------------------

In order to provide a platform for sharing of and
facilitate exchange of experiences amongst the
professionals from the SAARC Member States,
SDMC (IU) dedicated a session on “Country
Presentation:

Action

Plan

for

Non-structural

Mitigation Measures in Schools”. Participants were
briefed on preparing this action plan and present it on
the last day of the program.

Day 3: 23rd January 2020
Session 1: Travel to Shahpur School to identify falling hazards
By: GeoHazard Society
Based on the previous day session on the nonstructural risk assessment, participants were taken to
a nearby government school. This was a group
exercise where each country group covered all the
blocks in the school to identify non-structural
hazards in classrooms, principal office, corridors and other open spaces. They identified hazards
keeping in mind the multi hazard scenario like fire, earthquake, wind, etc. All the participants
photographed and noted down their observations.
On returning back, observations of the participants
were discussed country wise –
Afghanistan: Discussed their observations that
various racks were kept in the school corridor and
also a CCTV camera installed, these can be blockage
& falling hazard respectively. School had a single
staircase which doesn’t seem sufficient during
emergency exit. Also, there were few items kept in the staircase like watercooler that can block

134

-----------------------Page 139 End-----------------------

exit. The store room at the upper storey was
congested with items, even one person inside can get
struck in case of shaking because of falling items.
There was no warning alarm system. Principal room
had many non-structural elements. It should be a
standard room but there were TVs, books, oil for
cooking, engine oil/diesel (source of fire hazard),
cupboards all around.
Bhutan: Added to the above observations that in
some classrooms one of the two exits were blocked
by few items.

They suggested an order of

prioritization- Fitting components in room, cleaning
the corridor (till here no finances are required- can be
done easily by school staff), tree removal (wind
hazard), check integrity of steel porch. They also
highlighted that playground has dust which can be a health hazard.
Sri Lanka: The team gave positive pointsstructure of the school looked strong, strong door
and windows, to deal with dry period they have a
rainwater harvesting system. The ground and first
floor are occupied by 1 to 5 class students who are
comparatively more vulnerable & second floor
occupied by 6-8 class students.
Nepal: The team highlighted that the plinth of assembly hall from the ground level is high for
students, also the steps are not throughout. This can lead to injury in case of students are
evacuating. The outer unit of AC of neighbouring building is hung on the playground side of school
which can be a falling hazard.
Maldives: Discussed about the principal room which is big and has only one exit. Also there were
lot of wirings. There were 2 fire extinguishers also but one was expired and other’s pin was already
out.

135

-----------------------Page 140 End-----------------------

India: Discussed on the importance of scrap disposal. For schools it is an easy process, tendering
can be done in 15 days. Other observations were- Main gate not properly fixed to the wall. No
drainage system in the campus area that can cause vector borne disease. Wiring of light fixtures
with the frame of tin shed in assembly is dangerous. Also, a fan with only two wings was spotted.
Sitting arrangement under the projector can be avoided. Rooftop has lot of discarded area blocking
the water drainage. No railing for the staircase. No fire extinguisher in school building. The steel
angle of the classroom door is hazard for children. There was a gas cylinder kept in one of the
classrooms. The dish antenna can be properly fixed.

Session 2: Techniques of Non-structural Risk Mitigation, issues & challenges
By: Mr Pranav Sethi & Mohd. Mudassir GHS
Post a non-structural hazard identification exercise,
in this session ways of mitigation were introduced
like: relocation of objects that can injure, protect
through

anchoring,

brace

or

restrain

or

accommodate the movement.
GHS team showed equipment like L brackets,
plastic fastener, hex screw (for wall side) and nut & bolt (for cupboard side) for anchoring a
cupboard. Flexible cables for accommodating movement of objects like water pipes.
They showed photographs of objects that can slide, topple or fall. Before fixing it is important to
check for wires and pipes inside the surface.
They detailed the specifications of the L clamps and other equipment for fixing short, tall, and
leaning cupboard. Fixing of free-standing cupboards, for example in library. And solutions for
protecting the storage on open shelves, avoiding shattering of glass on doors and windows, fixing
electricity boards, AC units, water tanks, gas cylinder, etc.

Session 3: Fire hazard prevention & preparedness for school building

136

-----------------------Page 141 End-----------------------

By: Mr. Abhay Purandre
Mr. Purandre presented examples of deadly fire
incidents in India like Dabwali tent fire in 1995,
Kumbakonam school fire in 2004, and Takshashila
arcade fire in 2019. He explained in details about the
Takshashila archade, Surat fire case and explained that
the real cause of deaths in Surat case was not actually fire, but harmful smoke that came out due
to fire. Also there was a single staircase and no emergency exit. The fire took place near the
staircase at first floor, blocking the only exit route, which was why children jumped off the
building. He also gave understanding of heat and smoke movement, fire growth and development.
He also talked about fire incidents and statistics, types of fire and gases, school occupant
characteristics in terms of fire. Building characteristics in terms of school and fire safety and
common fire hazards & challenges. He also discussed the educational occupancies section of the
National Building Code (NBC 2016) which gives specifications like FAR, travel distance and exit
locations based on number of occupants, storage of volatile flammable liquid, etc. He also
explained the importance of drills in schools and school disaster management plan.

Day 4: 24th January 2020
Session 1: Participatory NSM in GIDM Building
by: GHS
The two day in depth discussion on the non-structural hazards, gave a good understanding to the
participants. On the last day of the program, the participants were given responsibility to identify
and fix the non-structural components by themselves. The area selected for this hands-on exercise
was GIDM library and a staff room. The participants were provided all the necessary equipment
and guidance by GHS.
The first location was library where all the participants identified the hazards. Then the participants
had to convince the librarian before fixing anything. Based on what they learnt, they could explain
the librarian that why non-structural mitigation is necessary and if not done what can be the losses.

137

-----------------------Page 142 End-----------------------

With the permission of the librarian, they fixed a printer and computer (sliding hazard) using
rubber mat and nylon strap, protected books on shelf (falling hazard) by securing them with curtain
string and relocated a cupboard (block exit).

The second location was a staff room where the participants identified a tall cupboard that could
be a falling hazard. They convinced the staff person that why fixing it necessary. With his
permission, they fixed the cupboard using four L clamps. It was a long process but participants did
the fixing themselves with the help of a person for drilling the wall and the cupboard.

138

-----------------------Page 143 End-----------------------

Session 2: Country Presentation on Action Plan for Non-structural Mitigation
Measures in Schools
Each country representative presented their action plan addressing the following topics:
1. Details of Probable Hazards in Respective Members states and key institutions that require
Non-Structural Risk Mitigation (NSRM)

139

-----------------------Page 144 End-----------------------

2. Brief on key agencies, institutions involved in Non-Structural Risk Mitigation (NSRM) and
their organization structures.
3. Brief about Existing funding mechanism available for the mitigation in Schools.
4. What are the strategy of Capacity Development to ensure Words into Action?
5. Issues, Challenges and Way Ahead
6. Expectations for SAARC Disaster Management Centre in strengthening the mitigation
measure.
Afghanistan: Listed down the hazards faced by the country like flood, snowfall, fire, dust, health,
chemical, etc. The key institutions that require non structural mitigations are technical institutions,
universities and schools. The institutions that can be involved in the task are UNDP, UN Habitat,
Polytechnic University, Agha Khan Foundation, Ministry of Education, Afghanistan Disaster
Management Authority. For funding mechanism, the Maintenance budget is available for the
mitigation in schools. In some cases, the Word Bank gives particular package for resolving specific
issue. Security and insufficient funds are main challenges and specially for the remote places in
the country. Improving the security through the support of government and local people, and
seeking the fund form National and International Organisations are the ways to overcome the
challenges. Listed the expectations from SAARC
DMC:
-

Equal norms for research related to hazards and
mitigations for all the SAARC countries

-

Sharing of data, and

-

Training for GIS mapping system
Maldives: Country representative discussed the
probable hazards in Maldives which are floods,
strong wind, tsunami, coastal erosion, and fire. She
discussed

the

organizational

structure

of

organisations involved in school safety which are
Ministry of Education, Disaster Management
Authority, and MNDF. For funding mechanism,
tsunami projects are funded by Government and UNDP; and other DRR activities are funded by

140

-----------------------Page 145 End-----------------------

Government, WORLD BANK and UNICEF. For capacity building there are activities done and
more can be done like regular DRR trainings for relevant staff at MOE; regular DRR trainings for
school staff on basic firefighting, basic first aid, School Emergency Operational Plan awareness;
and awareness sessions for parents. Challenges faced are geographical formation of the islands,
travelling cost, budget, capacity building, and equipment. Expectations from SAARC DMC is to
provide more trainings like these and technical assistance.
Bhutan: Country representative presented the
major hazards in Bhutan which are earthquake,
windstorm, fire (structural & forest), floods, glacial
lake outburst flood (GLOF), and landslide. The
agencies working for NSM for DM in schools of
Bhutan are District Administration, Ministry of
Education, Department of Disaster Management,
MoHCA, RBP, RBA, Dessung (Guardians of Peace and Harmony) & Bhutan Red Cross Society,
Ministry of Finance. She explained the current issues for NSM which are coordination and
inadequate fund, and they are looking forward to work on it by expanding coverage of awareness
programme and reinforce capacity building. The support they require from SAARC is about
capacity building research and necessary technical assistance.
Sri Lanka: Country representative discussed the
hazards faced by the country, which are landslides,
floods, tsunami, and lightening. She also showed a
school distribution map of the country wherein 20%
of the population is school children i.e. 4.1 million
school going children. She presented the record of
damages in school sector during different disasters.
Legal framework and coordination mechanism of disaster management in Sri Lanka was discussed
and sources of funding which include Government Treasury at National level, Provincial Council
at Sub National Level, World Bank, INGO/NGO/CBO, and Private Sector. Discussed various
strategies for capacity development undertaken in the country. Challenges faced and way ahead.

141

-----------------------Page 146 End-----------------------

Showed various before and after photographs of different schools where non structural mitigation
work was taken up to reduce flood and landslide risk.
Bangladesh: Major hazards in the country are floods, cyclones, storm surge, river bank erosion,
earthquake, drought, salinity intrusion, fire, landslides and tsunami. Cyclones and floods
particularly cause massive damages. For school safety the agencies involved are Ministry of
Disaster Management & Relief, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Primary & Mass Education,
Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Water Resources, and Ministry of Defence. Funding
mechanism is through Government budgetary provisions supported by many development
agencies like ADB, WB etc. Discussing WiA highlighted few points:
-

Primary Education Development Programme
has been running for 5th time. Remarkable
progress done which can be adopted and
replicated in others SAARC countries.

-

Training programme taken for strengthening
human resources.

-

Institutional Capacity developed.
Nepal: Country representative highlighted that
Nepal is the hotspot for natural disasters like
earthquake, flood, landslide, thunder, hailstorm,
GLOF. Institutes that require NSRM are schools,
universities, hospitals, government institutions, and
offices in public domain. And residence, industries,
commercial complex, theatres, and stadiums in

private domain. Funding mechanism in school system is through Annual fund through School
Improvement Plan (SIP) in each school, I/NGOs initiated projects, integration of training
component into the regular budget of teacher training program, non-pool budget under UNICEF
support. Pointed out strategy of capacity development and challenges faced like lack of data on
hazards, vulnerability and exposure; building consensus among responsible bodies; difficulty in
obtaining the support from decision makers; and economic constraints. Discussed way ahead to

142

-----------------------Page 147 End-----------------------

overcome these challenges through sustainability and commitments. Expectations from SAARC
DMC are policy lobbing, capacity development, and fund mobilizing.
India: The country faces all the major hazards like
earthquake, floods, tsunami, landslides, cyclones,
and droughts. Key agencies involved in school
safety are MHRD and NDMA – School Safety
Guideline, State Disaster Management Department
under Home Ministry, State Education Department,
Samagra Shikhsha Abhiyan, District Education
Office, School Development and Management Committee. Existing funding mechanism available
for the mitigation in schools are State Government Level: School Repairing Fund, under CSR
“Mukhyamantri Vidyadaan Kosh” (funded by companies), School Develop Fund (through SDMC)
and fund for School Safety Program. Major challenges faced are establishment of schools without
any master plans, up gradation of existing schools without any infrastructure plan, no certification
from certified engineers for construction of school building, and no proper plans of mitigation.
Expectations for SAARC DMC are that such training programmes are conducted and support and
encourage States to develop their own mechanism for mitigations.

Feedback from Participants and Closing
Remarks
At the end of all the sessions, feedback from the
participants was taken on various criteria. The rating
given by the participants is shown in the graph:

In the valedictory session, Director, SDMC(IU),
gave a vote of thanks to all the participants and
resource persons and ceremony ended with
certificate distribution.

143

-----------------------Page 148 End-----------------------

Annex 1: Format for Structural Inspection of the Buildings
SR
NO.

DESCRIPTION

DETAILS

PART 1 : GENERAL INFORMATION OF THE BUILDING
1

Name and address of the building, Year
of the construction

2

TYPE OF BUILDINGS
Load Bearing/ Partly Load bearing &
partly RCC /RCC frame

3

Number of storeys in each block of the
building

4

Description of the main usage of the
building:
Residential/educational/office/
hostel/workshop/hospital/any other
specify

5

TYPE OF FLOOR & ROOF
RCC/Wooden/steel

6

Year of construction, Maintenance
history of the building if known to be
mentioned

PART 2 : STRUCTURAL SYSTEM OF THE BUILDING
1

Description of the structural forms,
systems and materials used in different
parts of the building eg RCC, prestressed
concrete, steel etc

2

Description of Soil condition and
foundation system, if known

3

Identification of critical structures (for
eg: slender columns, floating columns,
cantilever structures, long span
structures etc)

4

Description of any area not covered in
visual inspections. State the reasons for
the same.

5

State if the existing usage and loading
condition is compatible with the
intended purpose of structure

144

-----------------------Page 149 End-----------------------

6

State the misuse, abuse or deviation has
given rise to excessive loading

7

State if there was any
addition/alteration works done to the
building structure
PART 3 : SURVEY OF SIGNS OF DISTRESS,DEFORMATION OR DETERIORATION IN BUILDING
STRUCTURE (CONDITION ASSESSMENT)

1
2

YES

NO

YES

NO

LEANING OF BUILDING
SETTLEMENTS
(a) Floor settlement
(b) Settlement of Load bearing wall
(c) Settlement of RCC foundation

8

CRACK OBSERVATIONS
Cracks in various load bearing
walls/RCC components.
(location, type, measurement,
through thickness crack etc.)Attach
Separate Sheets for crack details if
required)

9

10

SEEPAGE/LEAKAGE FROM THE
WALLS/SLABS
DISSTRESSING IN RCC PARTS
(a) Spalling/delamination of
concrete
(b) Honey combing
(c) Extent of Corrosion of
reinforcement
(d) Deflection of slabs/beams
(e) Any other distressing (termite
attack etc.)
(Attach Separate Sheets for details
preferably with photographs)

11

OVERALL STRUCTURAL CONDITION
ASSESSMENT

A) Excellent

145

-----------------------Page 150 End-----------------------

(Based on initial design &
construction and present structural
condition assessments)

B) Very good
C) Good
D) Poor

12

RECOMMENDATIONS
1) No further action required
2) Repair/Strengthening works
necessary
3) Detailed Assessment required
4) Barricade/ Non-use needed
5) Reconstruction or Any other
suggestions

Plan

Elevation

Photographs

INSPECTION TEAM
Sr. No
1
2
3
4
5
6

Name & Designation

Contact Details

Note : All sketches, plans and photographs should have proper caption

146

-----------------------Page 151 End-----------------------

List of Participants
#

Country

Particulars
Name :
Designation :

1

Afghanistan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :

2

Afghanistan

Organization :

mbaazoon@gmail.com
+93 728258343
Mr. Mirwais Sediqi
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority
Afghanistan National Disaster
Management Authority

Contact No. :

-

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :

Bangladesh

Mr. Sayed Mokhles Baazoon

-

Designation :

5

+93 766000082

Email :
Name :

Bangladesh

eng.atiqjalil@gmail.comEmail_1»

Ministry of Education, Afghanistan

Designation :

4

Ministry of Education, Afghanistan

Organization :

Name :

Afghanistan

Engineer, Kundaz Education

Infrastructure Service Dept/ MoE
Director

Contact No :

3

Mr. Atiqullah Jalil

Designation :

Email :

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :

Photograph

Mr. Md. Shawkat Akbar
Joint Secretary, Project Director
Department of Disaster Management
shawkat62@yahoo.com
+880 1712810679
Mr. Md. Farhad Hossain
Deputy Secretary
Secondary & Higher Education
Division,Ministry of Education
farhaduao1973@yahoo.co m
+880 1712404354

147

-----------------------Page 152 End-----------------------

Name :
Designation :
6

Bangladesh

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :

7

Bhutan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No :
Name :
Designation :

8

Bhutan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :

9

Bhutan

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :

10

India

Organization :

Mr. Md. Mijanur Rahman
Executive Engineer
Education Engineering Department
mizanur.rh1963@gmail.co
mEmail_1»
+880 1711314863
Mr. Jigme Wangdi
Engineer
Department of Enginnering
Services,Ministry of Works and
Human Sattlements
jwangdi@mowhs.gov.bt
Mr. Lalit Kumar
Chief Engineer
Directorate of Services school
planning & building division, MoE
lalit@moe.gov.bt
Mr. Tshewang Phuntsho
Disaster Focal Person
Punakha District
Administration,Ministry of Home
and Cultural Affairs
tphuntsho@punakha.gov.b t
Mr. Yagnesh Vyas
Senior engineer
Gujarat Council of School Education,
Gandhinagar

Email :
Contact No. :

148

-----------------------Page 153 End-----------------------

Name :
Designation :
11

India

Organization :
Email :

Mr. Rishabh Choudhary
Chief Engineer
Rajya Shiksha Kendra, Bhopal
Email_1»

Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :
12

India

Organization :
Email :

India

Assistant Director
Secondary
Education,Bikaner,Education
Department , Rajasthan.
aroonk2011@gmail.com

Contact No :

(+91) 9828460156

Name :

Mr.Chintan Pathak

Designation :
13

Mr.Arun Kumar

Organization :

Asst. Professor cum Program
Manager
GIDM

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :
14

India

Organization :

Mrs.Charu Mishra
Training Specialist cum Program
Manager
GIDM

Email :
Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :
15

Maldives

Organization :
Email :
Contact No. :

Ms. Nazahath Naeem
Engineer
Ministry of National Planning and
Infrastructure, Maldives
nazahath.naeem@planning
+960 7708384

149

-----------------------Page 154 End-----------------------

16

17

18

19

20

Maldives

Maldives

Nepal

Nepal

Nepal

Name

:

Ms. Sahula Wajeeh

Designation

:

Education Officer

Organization

:

Ministry of Education, Maldives

Email

:

sahula.wajeeh@moe.gov.
mvEmail_1»

Contact No.

:

+960 913 6137

Name

:

Mr. Yazeed Mohamed

Designation

:

Administrative Officer

Organization

:

Ministry of Education, Maldives

Email

:

yazeedh.mohamed@moe.g ov.mv

Contact No

:

+960 9755756

Name

:

Mr. Nitesh Acharya

Designation

:

Engineer

Organization

:

Engineer, Ministry of Physical
Infrastructure & TransportKathmandu Nepal

Email

:

acharyanites@gmail.com

Contact No.

:

977-9825197953

Name

:

Mr. Suman Salike

Designation

:

Senior Divisional Engineer

Organization

:

Department of Urban Development
and Building Construction

Email

:

sumansalike@gmail.com

Contact No.

:

977-9841923660

Name

:

Mr.Shivkumar Sapkota

Designation

:

National reconstruction Authority

Organization

:

Ministry of Education,Scinence and
Technology

Email

:

sapkotashiba@yahoo.com

Contact No.

:

977-9851091208,98251178417

150

-----------------------Page 155 End-----------------------

21

Sri Lanka

Name :

Mrs. N S Vithanage

Designation :

Assistant Director

Organization :

Education and Awareness, DM
Centre, Srilanka

Email :

saranga@dmc.gov.lkEmail_1»

Contact No. :
Name :
Designation :
22

Sri Lanka

Organization :
Email :
Contact No :
Name :
Designation :

23

Sri Lanka

Organization :

+94 772091597
Mr. W A P Bamunuarachchilage
Assistant Director
Ministry of Education
pdmshantha@gmail.com
+94 714486911
Mrs. I A N D Idirimanna
Scientist (Engineer)
National Building Research
Organization

Email :
Contact No. :

151

-----------------------Page 156 End-----------------------

Annexure 6
Copy of MoMs related to SAARC – STORM Project Meetings
Minutes of the SAARC – STROM Project TeleconferenceHeld on
25th March 2019 at IST 12:00 hrs

152

-----------------------Page 157 End-----------------------

153

-----------------------Page 158 End-----------------------

154

-----------------------Page 159 End-----------------------

155

-----------------------Page 160 End-----------------------

156

-----------------------Page 161 End-----------------------

Minutes of the SAARC – STROM Project Teleconference
held on 11th June 2019 at IST 12:30 hrs

157

-----------------------Page 162 End-----------------------

158

-----------------------Page 163 End-----------------------

159

-----------------------Page 164 End-----------------------

160

-----------------------Page 165 End-----------------------

Minutes of the SAARC – STORM Project Teleconference
held on 10th February, 2020 at IST 12:30 hrs
A teleconference was held on 10th February, 2020 at ISD 12:30 hrs to discuss and ascertain the
current status of the SAARC- STORM Project and deliberate towards necessary completion /
conclusion of the project.
The list of the participants is given as Annexure 1.
Following important points were discussed and decision taken during the meeting:
1. At the outset, Director, SDMC (IU) welcomed all the participants and set the agenda by
briefing on the SAARC - STORM Project. He inquired about the receipt of Minutes of the last
meeting held on 11th June, 2019 circulated by SDMC (IU), wherein all the members confirmed
the receipt of the same. It was informed in the meeting that representative from BMD,
Bangladesh is absent in the meeting.
2. Director, SDMC (IU), thereafter, took up the agenda on action taken as per the last minutes of
the meeting with respective member states, and update provided by the member states are as
under;
3. Bhutan
i.

It was mentioned that the status of the installed AWS is same as discussed earlier in the
last meeting. It was further informed that only 5 AWS stations are functioning as of now.

ii.

ISRO has agreed to fix all the technical problems with the installed AWS. It was also
informed by ISRO that the AMC period for the installed AWS is over. However, ISRO
will fix the technical issues and make the equipment operational upon confirmation from
NCHM about maintenance of AWS, once they are operational.

iii.

NCHM inquired about the data reception at IMD and modelling of the same for improved
prediction of severe thunderstorms. IMD informed that it has a capabilities of doing
prediction of severe thunderstorms and the same can be made available to NCHM, Bhutan
upon formal request.

iv.

It was informed that NCHM may drop the installation of Radio Sonde (RS) for upper air
observation as envisaged under the project due to unavailability of hydrogen gas. However,

161

-----------------------Page 166 End-----------------------

it was conveyed that the formal letter shall be sent to SDMC (IU) and ISRO about the same
in due course.
4. NEPAL
i. Mr Bikas from DHM mentioned that they have received the communications from ISRO
to rectify the technical issues with the installed AWS. However, due to some limitations at
their end they are yet to send formal invitation to ISRO/ agency to fix the technical issues.
ii. It was further informed by DHM that they want to install the RS at a location/site where
one more RS is already installed under some other programme. DHM would further check
and compare the data with both the RS and upon confirmation on data reception they would
request ISRO to re-install the RS under the project at the envisaged location.
iii. ISRO has raised the concern over the proposal of re-installation of RS as it is not the part
of the original contract/project. Further, it is also mentioned that the installations of these
equipments are being done by the private agencies and therefore there are financial
implications involved with such proposal.
iv. Mr. Bikas from DHM informed that he will discuss the issues with his Head of Department
(HoD) and reply back to SDMC (IU) and ISRO at the earliest.
5. Director, SDMC (IU) urged all the stakeholders to respond back quickly with the issues
discussed and decision taken during the meeting to clear all the issue related to the project by
March 2020.
Meeting ended with vote of thanks with the chair.

162

-----------------------Page 167 End-----------------------

Annexure 1
List of Participants
1.

Mr P K Taneja, Director, SAARC Disaster Management Centre ‐IU, Gandhinagar, Gujarat,
India. (Email: director@saarc-sdmc.org || Ph. +91 79 23275804 || M. +91 9978406146)

2.

Dr. Singay Dorji, Chief, Weather and Climate Services Division, National Center for
Hydrology and Meteorology, Thimphu, Bhutan. (Email: sdorji@nchm.gov.bt || Ph +975-2324999)

3.

Monju Subba, Engineer, Weather and Climate services Division, National Center for
Hydrology and Meteorology, Thimphu, Bhutan. (Email: msubba@nchm.gov.bt ||
thisismonju@gmail.com || Ph +975-2-324999)

4.

Mr. Bikash Nepal, Meteorologist, Network and Supervision Unit Department of Hydrology
and Meteorology(DHM), Kathmandu, Nepal (Email: bnepal22@gmail.com || Ph +977-14426136/ 4441092 || M. +977 9849083277)

5.

Dr Shantanu Bhatawdekar, Scientist/Engineer‐H, Director, EOS ISRO HQ, Bangalore.
(Email: bpshantanu@isro.gov.in || Ph +91-80-2217 2453 || M. +91 9611208251)

6.

Mr G S Rao, Associate Director, DRR, ISRO Hq., Bangalore, India (Email:
gsrao@isro.gov.in || Ph +91 80 22172460 || M. +91 9441901750

7.

Dr (Ms) Sathi Devi, Scientist F, India Meteorological Department, New Delhi, India (Email:
ksathi.devi@imd.gov.in || Ph. +91 11 24629798 || M. +91 9820128060)

163

-----------------------Page 168 End-----------------------

Annexure 7
Copy of MoMs related to RRM Project Meetings

164

-----------------------Page 169 End-----------------------

165

-----------------------Page 170 End-----------------------

166

-----------------------Page 171 End-----------------------

167

-----------------------Page 172 End-----------------------

Annexure 8
Outcome of the South Asia Forum on Preparedness for Regional
Disaster Response on the Implementation of SAARC Agreement
on Rapid Response to Natural Disasters

168

-----------------------Page 173 End-----------------------

169

-----------------------Page 174 End-----------------------

170

-----------------------Page 175 End-----------------------

