Annual Repor t
2 019

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Who we are

The World Trade Organization deals with
the global rules of trade between nations.
Its main function is to ensure that trade
flows as smoothly, predictably and freely
as possible.

Using this report

The 2019 Annual Report begins with a
message from the WTO Director-General
and an overview of the past year. This is
followed by more in-depth accounts of
the WTO’s areas of activity over the past
12 months.

Find out more

wto.org
enquiries@wto.org
+41 (0)22 739 51 11

Also available as an app to download
to your tablet or smartphone

For iPhone, iPad and Android

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual Repor t
2019

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

C ontent s

1
2

2

Introduction

4

Spotlight: 2018 in numbers

6

Message from
Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo

8

Understanding the WTO

10

A brief history

14

A year in review

16

2018: a snapshot

18

Our year

20

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

3

Membership

26

Joining the WTO

28

A global membership

32

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

4
5
6

Trade negotiations
and discussions

34

Changes to the rules of trade
require the agreement of all
WTO members, who must reach
consensus through negotiations.

Implementation
and monitoring

56

Various WTO councils and
committees seek to ensure that
WTO agreements are being
properly implemented. All WTO
members undergo periodic
scrutiny of their trade policies
and practices.

Dispute settlement

114

WTO members bring disputes to
the WTO if they think their rights
under trade agreements are being
infringed. Settling disputes is
the responsibility of the Dispute
Settlement Body.

7
8
9

How the WTO is structured

182

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2018)

183

Membership of the WTO (as of 31 December 2018)

184

Abbreviations and further information

185

Download the app

186

Supporting development
and building trade capacity 128
The WTO aims to help developing
countries build their trade capacity
and allows them a longer time
to implement trade agreements.
Hundreds of training courses are
organized each year for officials
from developing countries.

Outreach

144

The WTO maintains regular
dialogue with the business
community, non-governmental
organizations, parliamentarians,
other international organizations,
the media and the general public
to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Secretariat and budget

170

The WTO Secretariat has over
600 regular staff and coordinates
the activities of the WTO. Most of
the WTO’s annual budget consists
of contributions by its members.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

I nt roduc t ion

4

Spotlight: 2018 in numbers

6

Message from Director-General Roberto Azevêdo

8

Understanding the WTO

10

A brief history

14

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

1
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Introduction

S p ot l ight :

2018
i n nu m b e r s

38
WTO members initiated
38 new disputes in 2018,
more than twice the
number of 2017.

141
The Trade Facilitation
Agreement has been
ratified by 141 WTO
members, as of endJanuary 2019.

12
The General Council agreed
that the 12th WTO Ministerial
Conference will take place
in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan,
on 8-11 June 2020.

18
The WTO undertook trade
policy reviews of 18 WTO
members in 2018.

3.0
World merchandise trade
volume grew by 3.0 per
cent in 2018 after growth
of 4.6 per cent in 2017.

11
Eleven appeal
proceedings were
initiated in 2018,
compared with
eight in 2017.

6

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

9
Nine Appellate Body
reports were circulated.

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

22

750,0 0 0

The number of countries
currently seeking to join
the WTO is 22.

WTO videos were watched over 750,000
times on social media in 2018.

21,0 0 0

15

The WTO undertook over
330 training activities
in 2018, involving over
21,000 government
officials, a 17 per cent
increase from 2017.

1

Fifteen young people
took part in the WTO’s
Young Professionals
Programme in 2018.

28
Twenty-eight dispute
settlement reports and
decisions were circulated.

2.3

164

The WTO website
attracted over 2.3 million
visits a month in 2018,
over 20 per cent more
than the year before.

The WTO currently has
164 members, representing
98 per cent of world trade.

2,50 0
The WTO’s major outreach
event, the Public Forum,
attracted over 2,500
participants from over 100
countries, who took part
in a record 111 sessions.

38.8
Global disbursements of
Aid for Trade amounted to
US$ 38.8 billion in 2016
(the latest year on record).

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Introduction

Message from

D i re c tor- G ene ral Rob e r to A z evêdo

Mounting trade tensions, an increase in trade-restrictive
measures and continuing economic uncertainty created
real challenges for world trade in 2018. These factors and a
deceleration in overall economic activity slowed momentum
in global trade, restricting merchandise trade growth to 3 per
cent compared with 4.6 per cent in 2017. This downward trend
is expected to continue in 2019, with trade projected to grow
by just 2.6 per cent. If trade growth is to bounce back in 2020,
it is vital we resolve tensions and create an environment where
trade can play its full part in driving economic growth and
reducing poverty.
To chart a positive path forward for
world trade, WTO members are
discussing ways to strengthen the
trading system to enable it to better
respond to the challenges of today’s
economy, including rapid technological
change which is creating huge shifts in
patterns of employment. G20 leaders
emphasized the need for reform of
the multilateral trading system at their
summit in Buenos Aires in December,
while also underscoring the system’s
vital importance.
Different approaches to improving
the functioning of the WTO are under
discussion, including improving
members’ compliance with obligations
to submit information on their trade
policies and practices in a timely
fashion. Members are also seeking more
effectively to address trade-distorting
practices, such as subsidies, and to
address issues in the Appellate Body,
an essential component of the WTO’s
dispute settlement system.
The current impasse in the process for
appointing Appellate Body members is
putting the dispute settlement system
under severe strain. WTO members are
actively submitting proposals to address
the impasse and to improve the system.
If a solution is not found by December,
due to the expiration of two Appellate
Body members’ terms the number of
sitting members would fall to one, and
the Appellate Body would no longer be

8

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

able to hear appeals. The importance
of finding an urgent resolution to this
situation cannot be overstated.
Another area of discussion among
members is how to improve trade
negotiations at the WTO so that we
can keep delivering new agreements
and build on recent successes, such
as the landmark Trade Facilitation
Agreement, the abolition of agricultural
export subsidies, the expansion of the
Information Technology Agreement,
and a number of positive steps for
least-developed countries and food
security concerns.
In 2018, work continued to advance
negotiations in a number of areas, including
agriculture and fisheries subsidies.
In agriculture, WTO members engaged
in intensive discussions to identify
possible areas of agreement for the
next Ministerial Conference to be held
in Kazakhstan in June 2020. All areas
of the agriculture negotiations are
under discussion, including domestic
subsidies, public stockholding for food
security purposes, cotton and market
access. In a new approach, thematic
working groups have been established
to cover each of these areas, with a
detailed work programme for 2019.
In fisheries subsidies, WTO members
agreed to finalise an agreement by
the end of 2019. The overall objective
is to reduce subsidies that lead to

Message from Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

overfishing and to eliminate subsidies
to illegal, unreported and unregulated
fishing, a key target of UN Sustainable
Development Goal 14. Members have
created a negotiating text and are
working within small groups to identify
ways of bridging differences in order
to meet this deadline.
Groups of WTO members are also
discussing so-called joint initiatives,
which include electronic commerce,
small and medium-sized enterprises,
facilitation of investments, and
the economic empowerment of
women. While not all members are
participating, these talks are open to
everyone and are gaining momentum.
In the area of e-commerce, for
example, over 70 WTO members
confirmed in January their intention
to commence WTO negotiations on
trade-related aspects of e-commerce.
A group of members have also made
progress on proposing new disciplines
for domestic regulation of services.

The global trading
system continues to face
significant challenges.
There is an urgent need
to ease trade tensions,
resolve systemic issues
and further modernise
our rulebook.

Ensuring the effective implementation
of existing rules is the core work of the
WTO’s committees and councils. WTO
members continued to meet regularly to
discuss trade concerns and to propose
new ways of improving the WTO’s
rulebook. The WTO’s newest committee,
the Trade Facilitation Committee, marked
the first anniversary of the entry into
force of the Trade Facilitation Agreement
and members shared experiences on
implementing the Agreement, which
is projected to slash trade costs by 14
per cent once fully implemented. By the
end of 2018, over 80 per cent of WTO
members had ratified the Agreement and
many have already seen the benefits of a
faster flow of goods across borders.
One of the aims of our committees is to
prevent trade concerns escalating into
full-blown disputes. When it is not possible
to achieve this objective, WTO members
can rely on the dispute settlement system.
In 2018, the system was particularly active,
with an increasing number of cases being
brought for resolution. This demonstrates
members’ continuing reliance on the
system, further underlining the need to
find a solution to the Appellate Body issue
mentioned above.
Supporting the needs of developing
countries, particularly our leastdeveloped members, continued to

Message from Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg

be a core focus of our work, with the
Committee on Trade and Development
acting as the main forum for discussions.
In May 2018, we launched a report
looking at the contribution of trade to
attaining the Sustainable Development
Goals and we continued to work through
programmes such as the Aid for Trade
initiative and the Enhanced Integrated
Framework to support projects aimed
at developing the trading capacity
of our poorest members. We also
expanded our training programme to
help government officials from around
the world improve their understanding
of the multilateral trading system, and
continued to support countries seeking
to join the WTO.

1

The rise in trade tensions and the
rapidly evolving nature of trade have
sparked an unprecedented degree
of interest in the WTO and the global
trading system. The WTO Secretariat
has responded by hosting a series
of outreach activities and events
which enable stakeholders to better
understand the challenges confronting
the organization and to highlight
issues they find important. The “Trade
Dialogues” initiative continued during
the year, bringing in voices from a
range of different stakeholders. In
June 2018, business representatives
attended one such event to discuss
priorities for the business community
and how to strengthen global trade.
Their recommendations were presented
later in the year at the WTO’s Public
Forum, which attracted over 2,500
participants to debate how technological
and other developments are affecting
world trade.
As we move into 2019, the global
trading system continues to face
significant challenges. There is an
urgent need to ease trade tensions,
resolve systemic issues and further
modernise our rulebook. By doing so,
we can ensure that the WTO continues
to provide stability and predictability for
trading nations large and small, thereby
supporting growth, development and
job creation around the world.

Roberto Azevêdo
Director-General

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Introduction

Unde r s ta nd i ng t he W TO
There are a number of ways of looking at the World Trade Organization. It is an organization
for trade-opening. It is a forum for governments to negotiate trade agreements. It is a
place for them to settle trade disputes. It operates the global system of trade rules. It helps
developing countries build their trade capacity. Essentially, the WTO is a place where
member governments try to sort out the trade problems they face with each other.

W ho we a re

10

The WTO was born out of negotiations aimed
at progressively reducing obstacles to trade.
Where countries have faced trade barriers and
wanted them lowered, the negotiations have
helped to open markets for trade. But the WTO
is not just about opening markets, and in some
circumstances its rules support maintaining trade
barriers – for example, to protect consumers and
the environment or prevent the spread of disease.

At its heart are the WTO agreements, negotiated
and signed by the bulk of the world’s trading
nations. These documents provide the rules for
international commerce. They are essentially
contracts, binding governments to keep their
trade policies within agreed limits. Although
negotiated and signed by governments, the goal
is to help producers of goods and services,
exporters, and importers conduct their business,
while allowing governments to meet social and
environmental objectives.

The system’s overriding purpose is to help trade
flow as freely as possible – so long as there are
no undesirable side effects – because this is
important for stimulating economic growth and
employment and supporting the integration of
developing countries into the international trading
system. That partly means removing obstacles.
It also means ensuring that individuals, companies
and governments know what the trade rules are
around the world, and giving them the confidence
that there will be no sudden changes of policy.
In other words, the rules have to be transparent
and predictable.

Trade relations often involve conflicting interests.
Agreements, including those painstakingly
negotiated in the WTO system, often need
interpreting. The most harmonious way to settle
these differences is through a neutral procedure
based on an agreed legal foundation. That is the
purpose behind the dispute settlement process
written into the WTO agreements.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

What we stand for
The WTO agreements are lengthy
and complex because they are
legal texts covering a wide range
of activities. But a number of
simple, fundamental principles run
throughout all of these documents.
These principles are the foundation
of the multilateral trading system.

1
2
3
4
5
6

Non-discrimination
A country should not discriminate between
its trading partners and it should not
discriminate between its own and foreign
products, services or nationals.

More open
Lowering trade barriers is one of the most
obvious ways of encouraging trade; these
barriers include customs duties (or tariffs)
and measures such as import bans or
quotas that restrict quantities selectively.

Predictable and transparent
Foreign companies, investors and
governments should be confident that
trade barriers should not be raised
arbitrarily. With stability and predictability,
investment is encouraged, jobs are
created and consumers can fully enjoy
the benefits of competition – such as
increased choice and lower prices.

More competitive
Discouraging “unfair” practices, such as
export subsidies and dumping products at
below normal value to gain market share;
the issues are complex, and the rules try
to establish what is fair or unfair, and how
governments can respond, in particular
by charging additional import duties
calculated to compensate for damage
caused by unfair trade.

More beneficial for less
developed countries
Giving them more time to adjust,
greater flexibility and special privileges;
over three-quarters of WTO members
are developing countries and countries
in transition to market economies. The
WTO agreements give them transition
periods to adjust to WTO provisions
and, in the case of the Trade Facilitation
Agreement, provide for practical support
for implementation of the Agreement.

Protect the environment
The WTO’s agreements permit members
to take measures to protect not only
the environment but also public health,
animal health and plant health. However,
these measures must be applied in the
same way to both national and foreign
businesses. In other words, members
must not use environmental protection
measures as a means of introducing a
discriminatory trade barrier.

1

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Introduction

W hat we do
•	 Trade negotiations
•	 Implementation and monitoring
•	 Dispute settlement
•	 Supporting development and
building trade capacity
•	 Outreach
164
The WTO is run
by its 164 member
governments.

•	 The WTO is run by its member governments. All major decisions are
made by the membership as a whole, either by ministers (who usually
meet at least once every two years) or by their ambassadors or
delegates (who meet regularly in Geneva).
•	 While the WTO is driven by its member states, it could not function
without its Secretariat to coordinate the activities.
•	 The Secretariat employs over 600 staff, and its experts – lawyers,
economists, statisticians and communications experts – assist
WTO members on a daily basis to ensure, among other things, that
negotiations progress smoothly, and that the rules of international
trade are correctly applied and enforced.

12

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
The WTO agreements cover goods, services and intellectual
property. They spell out the principles of liberalization, and
the permitted exceptions. They include individual countries’
commitments to lower customs tariffs and other trade barriers,
and to open services markets. They set procedures for
settling disputes. These agreements are not static; they are
renegotiated from time to time and new agreements can be
added, as was the case at the Bali and Nairobi ministerial
conferences of 2013 and 2015.
Although at the end of the 2017 Ministerial Conference held in
Buenos Aires the Conference Chair, Minister Susana Malcorra
of Argentina, acknowledged that differences remain regarding
the Doha Round and the Doha Development Agenda, she also
highlighted the decisions taken by ministers and noted that
“members agreed to advance negotiations on all remaining
issues, including on the three pillars of agriculture – namely
domestic support, market access and export competition –
as well as non-agricultural market access, services,
development, TRIPS, rules, and trade and environment”.

Implementation and monitoring
WTO agreements require governments to make their trade
policies transparent by notifying the WTO about laws in force
and measures adopted. Various WTO councils and committees
seek to ensure that these requirements are being followed
and that WTO agreements are being properly implemented.
All WTO members must undergo periodic scrutiny of their trade
policies and practices, each review containing reports by the
country concerned and the WTO Secretariat.

Dispute settlement
Understanding is vital for enforcing the rules and therefore for
ensuring that trade flows smoothly. Countries bring disputes
to the WTO if they think their rights under the agreements are
being infringed. Judgements by specially appointed independent
experts are based on interpretations of the agreements and
individual countries’ commitments.

Supporting development
and building trade capacity
WTO agreements contain special provision for developing countries,
including longer time periods to implement agreements and
commitments, measures to increase their trading opportunities,
and support to help them build their trade capacity, to handle
disputes and to implement technical standards. The WTO
organizes hundreds of technical cooperation missions to
developing countries annually. It also holds numerous courses
each year in Geneva for government officials. The Aid for Trade
initiative aims to help developing countries develop the skills and
infrastructure needed to expand their trade.

Outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with the business
community, non-governmental organizations, parliamentarians,
other international organizations, the media and the general
public on various aspects of the WTO and its negotiations,
with the aim of enhancing cooperation and increasing awareness
of WTO activities.

1

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Introduction

1995

20 0 0

1994

A b r ief
h i s tor y

April
Marrakesh Agreement establishing
the WTO is signed.

2000
The WTO began life on
1 January 1995, succeeding
the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade which had
regulated world trade since
1948. Over the past 20 years
or so, the WTO has made
a major contribution to the
strength and stability of the
global economy, helping to
boost trade growth, resolve
numerous trade disputes
and support the integration
of developing countries into
the trading system.

January
Negotiations begin on services.

1995

March
Negotiations begin on agriculture.

January
The WTO is born on 1 January.
May
Renato Ruggiero (Italy) takes office
as WTO Director-General.

2001
November
Fourth Ministerial Conference in Doha,
Qatar. Doha Development Agenda is
launched. China becomes the WTO’s
143rd member.

1996
December
First Ministerial Conference takes
place in Singapore. Information
Technology Agreement concluded.

1997
December
Seventy WTO members reach a
multilateral agreement to open their
financial services sector.

2002
September
Supachai Panitchpakdi (Thailand) is
elected WTO Director-General.

1998
May
Second Ministerial Conference takes
place in Geneva.

1999
September
Mike Moore (New Zealand) becomes
WTO Director-General.
November
Third Ministerial Conference takes
place in Seattle, US.

14

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

2003
September
Fifth Ministerial Conference takes
place in Cancún, Mexico.

2004
July
General Council approves
“July 2004 Framework” for advancing
Doha Round negotiations.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

20 0 5

2010

2015

2005

2010

2015

September
Pascal Lamy (France) becomes WTO
Director-General.

January
“Chairs Programme” launched to support
developing country universities.

December
Tenth Ministerial Conference takes
place in Nairobi, Kenya. “Nairobi
Package” adopted, including abolition
of agricultural export subsidies.
Expansion of Information Technology
Agreement concluded.

December
Sixth Ministerial Conference takes
place in Hong Kong, China. Aid for
Trade initiative is launched. Hong Kong
Declaration is approved.

2016

2006
September
First WTO Public Forum takes
place in Geneva.

July
Afghanistan and Liberia become
the WTO’s newest members.

2011
December
Eighth Ministerial Conference takes
place in Geneva.

2017
2007
November
First Global Review of Aid for Trade
takes place in Geneva.

2008
July
Ministerial meeting in Geneva attempts
to take big step towards conclusion of
Doha Round.

2012

January
Amendment to the TRIPS Agreement
enters into force, easing access
to medicines.

August
Russia becomes the WTO’s
156th member.

February
Trade Facilitation Agreement enters
into force.
September
Roberto Azevêdo begins second term
as WTO Director-General.
December
Eleventh Ministerial Conference takes
place in Buenos Aires, Argentina.

2013
2009
April
DG Pascal Lamy reappointed for
second term of four years.
September
First WTO Open Day in Geneva.
November
Seventh Ministerial Conference takes
place in Geneva.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto

September
Roberto Azevêdo (Brazil) takes
office as WTO Director-General.
December
Ninth Ministerial Conference
takes place in Bali, Indonesia.
“Bali Package” adopted, including
the Trade Facilitation Agreement.

2014

2018
July
Members accept Kazakhstan’s
invitation to host WTO’s 12th Ministerial
Conference in June 2020.

April
Revised WTO Agreement on Government
Procurement comes into force.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

15

1

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

A yea r i n rev iew

16

2018: a snapshot

18

Our year

20

Trade negotiations and discussions

21

Implementation of WTO agreements and decisions

22

Dispute settlement

23

Supporting development and building trade capacity

24

Outreach

25

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

2
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

A year in review

2018 : a s n ap s hot
January
DG Azevêdo attends World Economic
Forum in Davos
Peter Sutherland, first WTO DirectorGeneral, passes away in Dublin, Ireland.

February
DG Azevêdo welcomes new cohort
of WTO young professionals.

August
DG Azevêdo pays tribute to former
UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan,
who passed away on 18 August.

July
WTO Monitoring Report finds new trade
restrictions by G20 economies have
doubled since previous review period.
Kazakhstan to host WTO’s next
Ministerial Conference.

September
DG Azevêdo welcomes commitment of G20 trade ministers
to modernizing WTO at Mar del Plata meeting in Argentina.
DG Azevêdo meets President Nazarbayev in Astana to discuss
plans for 12th WTO Ministerial Conference in 2020.

October
DG Azevêdo meets Prime Minister Trudeau in
Ottawa; welcomes strong support for WTO.
WTO’s Public Forum welcomes over 2,500
participants to discuss “Trade 2030”.
WTO, IMF, World Bank and OECD heads call
for new focus on trade as a driver of growth.

18

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

2018: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2018

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

April
WTO hosts symposium on the role of trade
policy in responding to natural disasters.

March
Ambassador Junichi Ihara of Japan
appointed as Chair of General Council.

June
Business leaders express support for
WTO and call for action on priority issues.

2

German Chancellor Angela Merkel and
leaders of six multilateral agencies call for
enhanced global cooperation.

May
DG Azevêdo launches report on role of trade in
advancing the Sustainable Development Goals.
DG Azevêdo welcomes President Macron’s
call to strengthen the trading system

November
DG Azevêdo takes part in Paris Peace Forum.
DG Azevêdo joins President Xi at opening ceremony
of inaugural China Import Expo in Shanghai.

December

DG Azevêdo meets with Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and
heads of IMF, World Bank, ILO, OECD and FSB in Beijing.

DG Azevêdo welcomes G20 leaders’ commitment to
improve functioning of WTO at Buenos Aires Summit.

DG Azevêdo meets Prime Minister Abe in Tokyo to discuss
global trade tensions.

DG Azevêdo and UN Secretary-General Guterres
discuss ongoing cooperation to deliver SDGs.

2018: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2018

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

A year in review

Ou r yea r
Trade negotiations and discussions

21

Implementation of WTO agreements and decisions

22

Dispute settlement

23

Supporting development and building trade capacity

24

Outreach

25

•	 WTO members accepted Kazakhstan’s invitation to host the 12th Ministerial Conference,
to be held in June 2020. It will be the first country in Central Asia to organize a
ministerial conference.
•	 WTO members sought to move trade negotiations forward in advance of the Conference,
with the most active areas of negotiation including agriculture, fisheries subsidies,
services, development and dispute settlement reform. Discussions also got under way
among some members on possible ways of modernizing the WTO.
•	 Many WTO members stressed that the “joint initiatives” – on e-commerce, investment
facilitation, small businesses and women’s economic empowerment – launched in
December 2017 are important for ensuring that trade policies remain relevant to today’s
global economy.

20

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

T rade negot iat ion s a nd d i s c u s s ion s
In 2018, WTO members sought practical and constructive ways to move trade negotiations
forward. Ideas were put forward on possible ways to reform or modernize the WTO.
During the year, WTO members sought to move
trade negotiations forward in advance of the
12th Ministerial Conference to be held in June
2020. The Chair of the Trade Negotiations
Committee (TNC), Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo, emphasized the fundamental value of
the multilateral trading system to the global
economy and said that the needs of developing
countries have to remain at the heart of WTO
members’ work. In all areas of activity, flexibility
is key, he said.
Chairs of active negotiating groups – agriculture,
fisheries subsidies, services, development
and dispute settlement negotiations – regularly
reported to the full membership on work in
their respective areas.
DG Azevêdo pointed out that if members are to
address current challenges and move forward,
they have to put forward new ideas that could lead
to convergence. There were some early signs of
modest movement in some areas, he said.
Many WTO members pointed to the intensive
work undertaken on fisheries subsidies and
noted the decision at the July General Council
to keep the deadline of December 2019 for
an agreement. DG Azevêdo emphasized that
an outcome will not come easily and said all

Trade negotiations and discussions
www.wto.org/tnc

members have to be prepared to work hard to
achieve a positive result in this area and in other
important longstanding issues.
Many WTO members stressed that the joint
initiatives launched in Buenos Aires in December
2017 – on e-commerce; investment facilitation
for development; micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises; and women’s economic empowerment
– are important for ensuring trade policies remain
relevant to today’s global economy and deliver
inclusive opportunities. Participants said they were
encouraged by the progress made in these talks.
The TNC Chair stressed that the initiatives should
not be a departure from multilateralism but a way
to support it. It was encouraging, he said, that the
initiatives are open to all members.
Members stressed that the WTO faces
unprecedented challenges, including escalating
trade tensions, that are straining the system.
In the second half of the year, many members began
to focus on possible reform or modernization of the
WTO as a means of responding to these challenges
and making the trading system work better. DG
Azevêdo urged all WTO members to engage in
discussions about the future of the organization.
See pages 34-55.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

21

2

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

A year in review

I mplementat ion of W TO ag re ement s
a nd de c i s ion s
WTO members accepted Kazakhstan’s invitation to host the 12th WTO Ministerial Conference
in Nur-Sultan in June 2020. Work in the WTO’s councils and committees continued to focus
on the effective implementation of WTO agreements and decisions.
The General Council agreed that the 12th
WTO Ministerial Conference will take place in
Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, on 8-11 June 2020.
Kazakhstan will be the first country in Central
Asia to host a WTO ministerial conference.
Substantive debates took place in the General
Council on trade tensions. Forty-one members
issued a statement in May 2018 expressing
concerns over rising trade tensions and risks
of protectionism. The statement called on
governments to resolve their differences
through dialogue and cooperation, including
through the WTO.
The WTO’s trade monitoring reports noted a
proliferation of trade-restrictive actions among
WTO members, with trade coverage of importrestrictive measures more than seven times that
recorded in the previous review. “The proliferation
of trade-restrictive actions and the uncertainty
created by such actions could place economic
recovery in jeopardy,” said DG Azevêdo. World
trade growth slowed as trade tensions multiplied
and global financial conditions tightened.
An increased number of trade concerns were
brought to the Council for Trade in Goods,
including 21 new concerns. WTO members
expressed clear support for the preservation of
the rules-based multilateral trading system and
encouraged the membership to use existing WTO
mechanisms for dealing with unfair trade practices.

22

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Several WTO members submitted a
comprehensive proposal to enhance the
transparency of members’ trade measures and
to strengthen the requirements for members to
provide comprehensive and prompt notifications
of these measures.
The Trade Facilitation Agreement marked its first
anniversary, with implementation of the Agreement
making good headway. Over 85 per cent of the
WTO membership has completed the ratification
process, and notifications by developing countries
outlining the timetables envisaged for implementing
the Agreement are on the rise.
“The TFA is one of the biggest trade reforms
in a generation. By dramatically reducing trade
costs, it will really bring great benefits for all WTO
members, especially developing countries,” said
DG Azevêdo on the Agreement’s first birthday.
The WTO and UN Environment hosted in October
a leadership dialogue on environmental and trade
policies. Panellists called on the WTO to expand
the contribution of trade to sustainability and
prosperity to help achieve the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals.
Australia’s accession to the Agreement on
Government Procurement was successfully
concluded.
See pages 56-113.

Implementation of WTO agreements and decisions
www.wto.org/monitoring

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

D i s pute s et t lement
Dispute settlement activity continued to intensify in 2018, with nearly 10 per cent more
ongoing monthly proceedings than in the previous year. WTO members remained divided
on the selection process to appoint replacements for four of the seven members of the
Appellate Body.
In 2018, dispute settlement activity in the WTO
continued to rise. WTO members initiated 38 new
disputes, more than twice the number of 2017
and one of the highest annual totals since the
WTO was established in 1995. Twenty-two WTO
members initiated these new disputes concerning
a wide range of issues.
Twenty-eight dispute settlement reports and
decisions were circulated in 2018, including
panel reports, compliance reports and Appellate
Body reports. On average, 42 proceedings were
ongoing each month, nearly 10 per cent more
than in 2017.
Eleven appeal proceedings were initiated
in 2018, compared with eight in 2017. Nine
Appellate Body reports were circulated during
the year.
The term of office of Appellate Body member
Shree Baboo Chekitan Servansing expired
on 30 September 2018. Four out of seven
Appellate Body positions remained vacant at
the end of the year, with members remaining
divided on the selection process to appoint
replacements. Three is the minimum number
of members required to hear an appeal.
Many members expressed concerns with the
lengthy delays in launching a selection process

to appoint new Appellate Body members.
Concerns about the functioning of the Appellate
Body were also raised.
In June 2018, Appellate Body Chair Ujal Singh
Bhatia warned that the dispute settlement system
faces increasingly complex disputes while
fundamental questions have been raised about
the way the WTO’s dispute settlement procedures
should be used. He highlighted that the impasse
in the process for appointing Appellate Body
members is debilitating the Appellate Body,
leading to significant delays in dispute resolution.
The Chair encouraged WTO members to engage
in a reasoned and systemic dialogue that keeps
at the forefront the enormous value of an effective
system and the consequences of its paralysis.
The impasse in the appointment of Appellate Body
members for four vacant positions was a recurrent
theme in WTO members’ discussions at Heads of
Delegation meetings at the WTO.
In December, the General Council agreed to
launch an informal process to overcome the
impasse. Ambassador David Walker of New
Zealand was appointed as facilitator to assist
the General Council Chair in working with
WTO members to resolve differences on the
functioning of the Appellate Body.
See pages 114-127.

WTO members most involved in disputes, 1995 to 2018
Canada
39

European
Union

23

99
123 152
25

China

85

United States

20

15

24

25

25

43
20

18

15

Japan

Republic
of Korea

Mexico
India
32

Argentina

21

16

Brazil

22

Complainant	

Dispute settlement
www.wto.org/disputes

Respondent

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

23

2

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

A year in review

Supp or t i ng developi ng c ou nt r ie s a nd
bu i ld i ng t rade c apac it y
In 2018, support for developing countries and building trade capacity continued to be a
central focus of the WTO’s activities, with the Committee on Trade and Development acting
as the main forum for these discussions.
Discussions in the Committee continued to
focus on duty-free and quota-free market access
for least-developed countries (LDCs). The
Committee also reviewed the implementation
of special and differential treatment (S&D) for
developing countries in WTO agreements and
decisions. S&D provisions range from increasing
trade opportunities for developing countries
to granting longer transition periods for the
implementation of WTO agreements and
providing technical assistance.
After three years of negative growth, LDCs’
exports of goods and services increased by
13 per cent in 2017, thanks largely to increases
in the prices of fuels and minerals. But LDCs
expressed concern about their low share
(0.5 per cent) of world manufacturing exports
and urged WTO members to improve market
access conditions for products from LDCs.
In May, the WTO launched a publication on the
role of trade in advancing achievement of the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
The publication looks at how international trade
can help countries gain access to new markets
and new investments, boost growth, raise living
standards and promote sustainable development.
The WTO-led Aid for Trade initiative disbursed
US$ 38.8 billion in 2016 to address trade-related

24

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

constraints identified by developing and leastdeveloped countries. The next Aid for Trade
Global Review is set to take place at the WTO
on 3-5 July 2019.
The first Global Forum for Inclusive Trade for
LDCs was held at the WTO in June 2018. More
than 300 participants from over 50 countries
attended the event organized by the Enhanced
Integrated Framework, a multilateral partnership
dedicated to addressing the needs of LDCs in
their use of trade as an engine for growth.
In 2018, the multi-agency Standards and Trade
Development Facility committed US$ 3.9 million
to help developing countries meet international
standards for food safety, plant and animal health
and access global markets.
The WTO Secretariat undertook over 330
technical assistance activities in 2018, providing
training to 21,600 government officials, a 17 per
cent increase from 2017.
Fifteen young people took part in the WTO’s
Young Professionals Programme in 2018.
The aim of the programme is to increase the
representation of nationalities under-represented
in the WTO Secretariat.
See pages 128-143.

Supporting developing countries and building trade capacity
www.wto.org/buildingtradecapacity

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

O ut reac h
In 2018, the WTO continued to reach out to the business community, civil society, academia
and the general public through a range of initiatives.
The WTO’s biggest annual outreach event, the
Public Forum, attracted over 2,500 participants
from over 100 countries. Under the theme
of “Trade 2030”, the Forum hosted a record
111 sessions focusing on sustainable trade,
technology-enabled trade and a more inclusive
trading system. For the first time, the Forum held
a session organized entirely by young people.
Keynote speakers at the opening session of
the Public Forum stressed the importance
of innovation and flexibility in adapting to the
new global trading environment. DG Azevêdo
underlined the need “to set a path towards better
global trade by 2030 – trade that is even more
sustainable and inclusive”.
The WTO continued its active collaboration with
the business sector. In June, the WTO facilitated
a second “Trade Dialogue” for the business
community. The event brought together over
60 senior business representatives to discuss
trade-related issues and challenges. Their
recommendations on strengthening global trade
were presented in October during the WTO
Public Forum.

The WTO continued to work closely with other
international organizations, with DG Azevêdo
taking part in events organized by the UN, the
World Bank, the IMF, the OECD and many
others. He also attended the G20 summit in
December, at which G20 leaders recognized the
contribution of the multilateral trading system to
economic growth while calling for reform of the
WTO to improve its functioning.
Reform of the WTO was also discussed at the
2018 Parliamentary Conference on the WTO,
held in December. More than 300 members
of parliament representing over 100 countries
attended the meeting. The conference urged
WTO members to strengthen the multilateral
trading system, with the WTO as its cornerstone.
The WTO website attracted over 2.3 million visits
a month in 2018, over 20 per cent more than the
year before. The social media channels of the
WTO attracted an increasing number of followers
while WTO videos were watched over 750,000
times on social media. The WTO issued over 60
publications and launched a new iLibrary bringing
together into one self-contained area all the
WTO’s key research material on global trade.
See pages 144-169.

Outreach
www.wto.org/forum

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

25

2

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Mem b e r s h ip

26

Joining the WTO

28

A global membership

32

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

3
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Membership

Joi n i ng t he W TO
•	 Accession negotiations resumed with The Bahamas after a six-year pause. Both Comoros
and Bosnia and Herzegovina, whose negotiations reached “technical maturity”, aim for
accession in 2019.
•	 South Sudan activated its accession process. Its working party met for the first time in
early 2019.
•	 The WTO Secretariat supported efforts by Ethiopia, Serbia, Sudan and Uzbekistan to
resume their WTO accession processes in 2019.
•	 An Informal Group of Acceding Governments was launched to address the growing desire
for better coordination among acceding governments. An Informal Dialogue of Acceding
Least-Developed Countries (LDCs) will seek to promote cooperation among acceding LDCs.

Background on
joining the WTO
The WTO is open to states
or customs territories with full
autonomy over their external
commercial relations. To join,
a government has to bring its
economic and trade policies
into line with WTO rules
and principles and negotiate
with the WTO membership
on guaranteed minimum
levels of access to their
domestic markets for goods
and services. The accession
process promotes the
integration of new members
into the global economy. An
accession process begins
when WTO members accept
an application and establish
a working party. It concludes
when the membership and
the acceding government
both accept a negotiated
accession package.

Since the WTO was launched in 1995,
36 members have joined the organization.
Twenty-two states or separate customs
territories are currently seeking to join.

The Bahamas
The accession process of The Bahamas
resumed in 2018 after six years, with the third
meeting of the working party on the accession
taking place in September in Geneva. During
this meeting, the government announced its
strong commitment to the accession process,
“with a goal of December 2019/MC12”.
Mr Brent Symonette, the Minister of Financial
Services, Trade and Industry and Immigration,
noted that the Caribbean country has launched
economic reforms to diversify the economy.

The Chair of the Working Party, Ambassador
Andrew Staines (United Kingdom), said that the
accession process of The Bahamas “is strategically
important, not only for herself and her reform
agenda, but also for the region”. The Bahamas is
the last nation in the Americas outside the WTO.
On the margins of the working party meeting, the
Bahamian delegation held bilateral meetings and a
plurilateral meeting on agriculture. WTO members
commended the work done by the government
and expressed their support for a swift negotiating
process. They also noted there is significant yet
doable work ahead to advance bilateral market
access negotiations and to fully bring The
Bahamas’ foreign trade regime and legislation in
line with WTO requirements. The fourth meeting
took place in the first quarter of 2019.

The Bahamas is the
last nation in the
Americas outside
the WTO.

28

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Bosnia and
Herzegovina aims
to conclude its
accession process
in 2019.

Bosnia and Herzegovina

Comoros

At the 13th meeting of the working party on 8
February 2018, WTO members supported the
swift conclusion of the negotiations and welcomed
the strong commitment and desire by Sarajevo
to finalize the process. Bosnia and Herzegovina
started its accession negotiations in July 1999.
Sarajevo has concluded all but one of its bilateral
market access negotiations and worked
with members to resolve a few outstanding
negotiating issues.

Comoros reaffirmed its high-level political
commitment to conclude its accession
negotiations as soon as possible. At the fourth
meeting of the working party, held on 28 March
2018, members urged Comoros to complete the
process of bringing the country’s foreign trade
regime fully into conformity with WTO rules and
requirements. Working party Chair Ambassador
Chávez Basagoitia (Peru) said that legislative
work still to be done “is the keystone of this
accession”. Domestic reforms and legislative
work are essential in all accessions and in the
case of the Comoros, a major effort remained
to be made, he said.

The meeting of the working party was the first
in nearly five years. The accession had reached
“technical maturity”, said the Chair of the working
party, Ambassador Atanas Paparizov of Bulgaria.
Bosnia and Herzegovina aims to conclude the
accession process in 2019.

Belarus
At the 10th meeting of the Working Party, held on
15 May, WTO members stressed their readiness
to work towards the country’s WTO accession
and urged Minsk to take appropriate policy
decisions to make a decisive push forward.
The meeting was the third since the resumption
of the working party’s work in January 2017.

South Sudan
South Sudan activated its accession process in
2018 following the establishment of its working
party in December 2017. The country, the world’s
newest nation, circulated its memorandum on the
foreign trade regime – a comprehensive summary
of the acceding government’s foreign trade regime,
including relevant statistical data. The first meeting
of the working party was held during the first
quarter of 2019.

On the bilateral front, Belarus said it has
concluded 17 bilateral market access agreements.
While recognizing the progress made, some
members asked Belarus for further clarification
on a wide range of issues, including its
investment regime, state ownership, import and
export regulations and intellectual property rights.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

29

3

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Membership

Sudan, Serbia, Ethiopia and
Uzbekistan

team on the technical update of the accession
documentation required for formal resumption
of the working party in 2019. Ethiopia’s working
party last met in March 2012.

The WTO Secretariat undertook two technical
missions to Khartoum, Sudan, with the objective
of collecting information on the country’s trade
policies. The fifth meeting of the working party,
which last met in 2017, is envisaged for 2019.

The Secretariat visited Tashkent twice to support
Uzbekistan’s efforts to reactivate its accession
process, which has been inactive since 2005.
A formal resumption of the working party is
envisaged for 2019.

Throughout the year, Serbia has been actively
engaged with the Secretariat, which visited
Belgrade, on the technical update of the accession
documentation required for formal resumption
of the working party in 2019 once outstanding
domestic legislative action is completed. Serbia’s
working party last met in June 2013.

Other accession processes
Equatorial Guinea, whose working party was
established in 2008, engaged with the Secretariat
with the aim of resuming its accession process in
2019. Iraq submitted an updated memorandum on
the foreign trade regime in 2018. A third meeting
of Iraq’s working party, established in 2004, will
be scheduled when it submits its initial market
access offers on goods and services and replies
to questions raised by members.

As part of Ethiopia’s efforts to re-energize its
accession process, a meeting took place between
DG Azevêdo and Prime Minister Abyi Ahmed
of Ethiopia in January 2019. The Secretariat
has been working with Ethiopia’s negotiating

Figure 1: Participants from acceding governments in WTO technical assistance
activities, 2018
Algeria

68

Azerbaijan

27

Bahamas

48

Belarus

83

Bhutan*

7

Bosnia and
Herzegovina

31

Comoros*

31

Equatorial Guinea

14

Ethiopia*

45

Iran

12

Iraq

8

Lebanese Republic

8

Serbia

35

Somalia*

38

South Sudan*

81

Sudan*

45

Syrian Arab Republic

14

Timor-Leste*

2

Uzbekistan

27
0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

90

100

*least-developed country

30

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Technical assistance and outreach
In 2018, over 600 participants from acceding
governments were invited to participate in WTO
technical assistance and capacity-building
activities (see Figure 1).
The seventh China Round Table on WTO
accessions, which aims to assist acceding
LDCs, took place on 26-27 September in
Astana, Kazakhstan, under the theme “Eurasian
perspectives on the future of the multilateral
trading system: accessions and the evolution of
WTO rules”. DG Azevêdo underscored the need
to fully integrate Eurasian economies into the
global trading system through WTO accessions.
“For acceding members, the process of WTO
accession has usually accompanied structural
transformation of the domestic economy, and a
reshaping of trading relationships regionally and
globally,” he told the round table.
Significant efforts were made to expand outreach
activities aimed at promoting experience-sharing

among acceding governments. A newly
established Informal Group of Acceding
Governments was launched to address a
growing need for better coordination among
these governments while an Informal Dialogue
of Acceding LDCs was established to promote
cooperation among these countries.
A series of new activities was launched under the
“Trade for Peace” initiative, coordinated by the
Accessions Division. Approximately two-thirds of
acceding governments are considered conflictafflicted or fragile economies. The initiative aims
at promoting WTO accession as a pathway to
economic growth, development and stability,
thereby contributing to peace.
As a follow-up to a first meeting held in Nairobi
in 2017, the WTO Secretariat organized the
second Regional Dialogue on WTO Accessions
for the Greater Horn of Africa in Djibouti on 3-6
December 2018. The theme was “Promoting
Trade for Peace through WTO Accessions”.

3

The seventh China
Round Table on
WTO accession took
place in Astana in
September.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Membership

A global mem b e r s h ip
The WTO’s 164 members represent
98 per cent of world trade.

WTO members
Observers
Non-members
For a full list of WTO members
and observers, see page 184.
The map does not intend to show WTO members’
non-metropolitan/overseas territories or the status of
such territories in regard to the WTO agreements.
Source: WTO and World Bank.

32

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

3

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

T rade negot iat ion s a nd d i s c u s s ion s
Trade negotiations and discussions in 2018
Agriculture

38

Market access for non-agricultural products

41

Services

41

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)

42

Trade and development

43

Trade and environment

44

WTO rules: fisheries subsidies, other WTO rules

45

Dispute Settlement Understanding

47

Joint initiatives

48

Electronic commerce

48

Investment facilitation for development

50

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises

51

Trade and women's empowerment

53

Joint statement on domestic regulation of trade in services
Background on
trade negotiations
Changes to the rules
of trade require the
agreement of all WTO
members, who must
reach consensus
through negotiations.

34

36

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

55

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

4
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

T rade negot iat ion s a nd d i s c u s s ion s i n 2018
•	 In 2018, WTO members sought to move trade negotiations forward. The Chair of the
Trade Negotiations Committee, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo, warned that it cannot
be business as usual; he called for a sense of urgency.
•	 Agriculture and fisheries subsidies were two areas that saw significant activity.
•	 Exploratory discussions under the various joint initiatives launched at the 11th Ministerial
Conference were positive, interactive and productive, co-convenors and coordinators of
the initiatives said.
•	 Possible ways to reform or modernize the WTO became common themes for discussion
in the second half of the year.
Background on
trade negotiations
Trade negotiations
take place in the Trade
Negotiations Committee
(TNC) and its subsidiaries,
which are regular councils
and committees meeting in
special session or specially
created negotiating bodies.
The negotiating bodies
report to the TNC, which
supervises the overall
conduct of their work.

Negotiations
In 2018, WTO members sought practical and
constructive ways to move trade negotiations
forward. The Trade Negotiations Committee
(TNC) Chair, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo,
said that if members are to deliver substantive
outcomes, it cannot be business as usual.
Members need to reflect in an active way. There
will be different needs and results in different
negotiating groups, and it is up to members
to determine with the respective chairs the
appropriate path. It is important that pledges of
support for the system are matched with deeds.
Development, in particular the prospects for
least-developed countries (LDCs), have to remain
at the heart of WTO members’ work, said the
TNC Chair. He stressed that in all areas of work,
flexibility is key. This can be facilitated in different
approaches allowed by the system. There is
flexibility in substance – for example, with the
multilateral Trade Facilitation Agreement (see
page 86), flexibility in geometry, with plurilateral
initiatives such as the Government Procurement
Agreement (see page 110) or the Information
Technology Agreement (see page 84), and new
flexibilities with the exploratory discussions in the
joint initiatives open to all members (see page 48).
At the informal TNC and Heads of Delegation
meetings in May, July, October and December,
chairs of active negotiating groups – agriculture,
fisheries subsidies, services, development, and
Dispute Settlement Understanding negotiations
– reported on work in their respective areas.
In December, the chairs of the agriculture and
fisheries subsidies negotiations highlighted their
workplans/programmes for the first half of 2019.
While it was positive that members were meeting
and engaging, the TNC Chair called for a sense
of urgency – particularly in areas where there are

36

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

specific deadlines, such as in fisheries subsidies
(see page 45) and in areas behind schedule, such
as public stockholding for food security (see page
38). While important progress had been made
in Buenos Aires, the 11th Ministerial Conference
in December 2017 had also exposed some
fundamental divisions among WTO members –
both on the substance and process. The Chair
pointed out that if members are to address these
challenges and move forward, they have to put
forward new ideas that could lead to convergence.
There were some early signs of modest movement
in some areas, he said.
One of the many risks with the escalating global
trade tensions, said the TNC Chair, is that WTO
members neglect their negotiating work. He
called on them to resist this temptation. Many
members pointed to the intensive work undertaken
on fisheries subsidies and noted the decision at
the July General Council to keep the deadline
of December 2019 for an agreement. But an
outcome will not come easily and all members
have to be prepared to work hard, he said. They
also have to strive to advance other important
longstanding issues, such as agriculture, public
stockholding, services and development as well
as all other areas of the negotiations.

Work on joint initiatives
Many proponents stressed that the joint initiatives
launched by groups of members in Buenos Aires
in December 2017 (see page 48) are important in
ensuring that trade policies are relevant to today’s
global economy and deliver inclusive opportunities.
The Director-General stressed that they should
not be a departure from multilateralism but a way
to help and support it. It was encouraging that
the proponents had been clear that the initiatives
would be open to all, inclusive and transparent,
he said. He also stressed that no member would
be forced to join any such initiatives.

Trade negotiations and discussions in 2018
www.wto.org/tnc

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

increases in protectionist sentiment, including
a new high in import-restrictive measures that
increased uncertainty; impasse in the WTO’s
dispute settlement system, specifically the
Appellate Body; the invoking of national security
exceptions to trade rules in numerous disputes;
and the putting into question of the basic
principles of the organization.

DG Azevêdo is
the Chair of the
Trade Negotiations
Committee.

The co-convenors and coordinators of the joint
initiatives on e-commerce, investment facilitation
for development, micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs) and women’s economic
empowerment provided transparency reports
to WTO members in the Heads of Delegations
meetings. All of them stressed the inclusive and
transparent nature of their work. The exploratory
discussions under the initiatives were positive,
interactive and productive and demonstrated
a keen interest among participants in taking
exploratory work forward, the co-convenors and
coordinators said. The second half of the year saw
readiness to move in 2019 to their respective next
steps, including, for some, negotiations.
WTO members participating in these initiatives
said they are encouraged by the progress made,
especially on e-commerce, investment facilitation
for development and MSMEs. A few delegations
also referred to domestic regulation in services
(see page 41). They said that they have learned
much from the sharing of experiences, best
practices and insights on specific issues that
could shape the contours of possible frameworks
for future rule-making. Many reiterated that these
processes should continue to remain inclusive
and transparent and aim for multilateral outcomes.
Others reaffirmed that development and special
and differential treatment for developing countries
should remain at the heart of these undertakings.
However, a number of other WTO members
continued to express reservations about the
joint initiatives, preferring to work through
multilateral approaches.

Systemic issues and concerns
WTO members pointed out that 2018 was fraught
with major challenges for international trade and
the multilateral trading system. The WTO faced
unprecedented challenges that are straining the
system, including: unilateral trade actions and
counter-measures amid escalating trade tensions;

Trade negotiations and discussions in 2018
www.wto.org/tnc

Some members said there are many reasons why
the WTO finds itself in the current predicament,
such as the pace of technological development,
the perception that the benefits of economic
growth are not being distributed equitably,
and political developments in decision-making.
Nevertheless, members said that it is important to
address these challenges through dialogue and
by taking the necessary actions to safeguard the
multilateral trading system.

WTO reform
Discussions in the second half of the year began
to focus on possible reform or modernization.
Such a modernizing effort was viewed as a way
to ease the trade problems identified by some
members and to deal with the issues that had
been put on the table.
Many WTO members said they could agree that
the system needs to be more efficient, effective
and responsive to prevailing challenges.
Several perspectives have been offered on what
the priorities should be. These include: resolving
disputes and reaching agreements more rapidly
and effectively; addressing a variety of tradedistorting practices that are either not covered or
covered partially by existing disciplines; avoiding
protectionism and unilateral measures; advancing
ongoing work; and improving notifications
and transparency.
Several WTO members pointed out that the
efforts need to be pragmatic, realistic and
inclusive and reflect the views and perspectives
of all members.
However, some WTO members are not convinced
that reform is needed. The Director-General
said that his impression is that no one is talking
about shaping a new package or a new round of
negotiations. The discussions seem to be focused
on trying to address some specific problems,
where necessary, to help the system work better.
DG Azevêdo urged WTO members to make their
views known because the state of the organization
is an issue in which every member has an interest.
However, he cautioned that these discussions
must not crowd out other work. The system has
to respond to new challenges of the 21st century
without brushing aside existing issues.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

37

4

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

Ag r ic u lt u re
•	 Under new Committee Chair Ambassador John Deep Ford (Guyana), WTO members
engaged in an intensive cycle of consultations and meetings to identify possible options
for the next Ministerial Conference.
•	 The Committee approved a workplan for early 2019, with seven thematic working groups
focusing on key topics in a new process aimed at advancing the negotiations.

Background on
agriculture
The broad objective
of the agriculture
negotiations is to
reduce distortions
in agricultural trade
caused notably by high
tariffs and other barriers
and domestic support
measures as well as
export subsidies and
equivalent measures
and export restrictions.
The negotiations
take place in the
WTO Committee on
Agriculture, meeting in
special session. They
are also to take into
account the needs of
developing countries.

38

Ambassador Deep Ford from Guyana, who
took over as Chair of the special session of the
Committee on Agriculture and the Sub-Committee
on Cotton in April 2018, held 11 meetings open
to all WTO members and many consultations with
members and groups of members. Delegations
were invited by the Chair to focus on the critical
questions in the negotiations and propose options
to break perceived impasses and to identify and
provide updated data considered to be useful for
the negotiations.
In the second half of the year, members engaged
in thematic discussions, topic by topic, based on
WTO members’ submissions and presentations.
Building on these discussions, members endorsed
in December a workplan submitted by the Chair
for the first quarter of 2019, which envisages
seven thematic working groups.
The groups, to be coordinated by delegates, will
focus on all areas of the negotiations – domestic
support (subsidies), public stockholding for food
security purposes, cotton, market access, the
special safeguard mechanism, export competition
and export restrictions. The aim, the Chair said, is
to “intensify and deepen discussions” and move
the agriculture talks to a “problem-solving” phase.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Public stockholding for food
security purposes
Discussions on public stockholding for food
security continued in dedicated sessions. At
issue are public stockpiles of food acquired at
administered (officially set) prices. Some consider
that without effective controls these programmes
can lead to over-production and depressed prices
that could affect farmers worldwide.
Indonesia, on behalf of the G-33 (a coalition of
developing countries), highlighted the significant
numbers of small farmers in developing countries,
their vulnerability and the prevalence of poverty
in rural areas. Considering the missed deadline
at the 11th Ministerial Conference for achieving
a permanent solution, members should aim
for agreement at the Nur-Sultan Ministerial
Conference in June 2020, it said. The group
is seeking a solution that would not impose
burdensome transparency obligations.
Several members, while acknowledging the
challenges faced by many developing countries,
expressed their strong opposition to tradedistorting support without limits. It was suggested
that so-called green box farm support – support

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

The Cotton-4
countries stressed
the importance
of reaching an
outcome on cotton
subsidies by the
next ministerial
conference.

that is allowed without limits because it does not
distort trade, or at most causes minimal distortion
– already offers a range of policy options for
addressing food security challenges. Effective
safeguards and enhanced transparency provisions
remain crucial components of any permanent
solution for many members.

Domestic support
WTO members made many submissions and
presentations during the year, underscoring
the importance attached to the negotiations
on domestic support. The Cairns Group of
agricultural exporting nations lobbying for
agricultural trade liberalization made technical
submissions aimed at deepening understanding
of the trends and evolution of domestic support
by category of support, by member and by
key products.
Some members insisted that negotiations should
initially focus on the aggregate measurement
support (AMS) entitlements, which permit certain
members to exceed their de minimis levels
(minimal amounts of domestic support that are
allowed even though they distort trade) under the
Agreement on Agriculture. They considered this to
be the most trade-distorting support while some
others expressed the view that all components
of trade-distorting support should be examined
in the negotiations. Members continue to stress
the need to further limit trade-distorting domestic
support but they differ sharply on how.
The need for special and differential treatment
was underscored by many developing countries,
who pointed to the specific challenges they
face, including rural poverty and food security.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs

The specific needs of least-developed countries
(LDCs), small, vulnerable economies (SVEs) and
net food-importing developing countries were
also mentioned. Some members also suggested
a need to address so-called “box shifting”. When
members reform their subsidy programmes, the
categorization may change if the characteristics/
forms of domestic support are modified.

Cotton
The Cotton 4 countries – Mali, Chad, Benin and
Burkina Faso (as well as Côte d’Ivoire, an observer
since November 2018) – stressed the importance
of reaching an outcome on cotton subsidies by the
next Ministerial Conference to meet a commitment
by WTO members to address cotton “ambitiously,
expeditiously and specifically within the agriculture
negotiations”. Many members expressed their
support for this objective but there were stark
differences in their approaches to advancing work
on this issue.
The United States presented its first-ever paper
on cotton containing data on market access,
domestic support and export subsidies for
cotton for 23 WTO members involved in cotton
production and trade. The Cotton 4 circulated a
questionnaire to a select group of WTO members
requesting data on cotton production, prices,
value of production and cotton-specific domestic
support. It was noted that the WTO Secretariat
could assist with the compilation of a common set
of data to inform the negotiations.
Members held WTO “Cotton Days” in June and
November 2018, consisting of discussion of traderelated developments and the Director-General’s
Consultative Mechanism on cotton development

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

39

4

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions
assistance. Members, partners and private sector
representatives discussed lessons learned from
recent cotton assistance projects as well as
the key objectives and priorities for new cotton
projects. Deputy-Director General Alan Wolff
highlighted the increased level of cotton-specific
development assistance provided by donors.
A new initiative on
cotton by-products
was endorsed by
WTO members.

A new joint initiative on cotton by-products was
endorsed by WTO members at the November
meeting. The objective is to boost value addition
at the local processing levels for parts of the
cotton plant with a commercial use other than
cotton fibres to increase the incomes of farmers
and small businesses. The Cotton Portal, which
gathers together all cotton-specific information
available in the databases of the WTO and
International Trade Centre, was updated with
new features.

Market access
WTO members engaged in substantive technical
discussions on market access (essentially
tariffs). Two submissions from the United States
and a joint submission from Paraguay and
Uruguay guided the discussions on a number
of themes. These included the large difference
between members’ applied tariffs – those that
are actually levied – and bound tariffs, which are
the maximum an individual member is permitted
under its schedule of commitments. This “binding
overhang” is prevalent in all agricultural product
groups, according to the US submission. The
average bound rate on farm goods is 54.7 per
cent compared to an average applied rate of
14.5 per cent.
Many members welcomed the US paper as a
contribution to possible future market access
negotiations although some questioned the
methodology used. Three members cited specific
examples where large gaps between bound and
applied tariffs have led to recent sudden and
sharp changes in tariffs on certain farm imports,
to the detriment of their producers.
The commitments of newly acceded members and
the erosion of preferences were also discussed.
The latter refers to concerns over the possible
impact that reductions in tariff rates have on the
advantages granted to developing countries under
preferential tariff systems. Members that joined the
WTO after 1995 noted that average farm tariffs
for parties to the original General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) were four times
greater than those for newer members. Some
members emphasized that progress in the market
access negotiations might not be feasible without
progress in domestic support and in market
access for industrial goods and trade in services.

40

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Special safeguard mechanism
WTO members continued to discuss a special
safeguard mechanism, as instructed by the 10th
Ministerial Conference. A presentation by the
G33 highlighted the socio-economic context of
agriculture in developing countries and the price
volatility risks associated with international trade.
A special safeguard mechanism would allow
developing countries to raise tariffs temporarily
to address import surges or price declines.
Some members envisage such a mechanism
only in the context of market access reforms
while proponents see no necessary linkage.

Export prohibitions and restrictions
Singapore presented a paper on the impact of
export prohibitions or restrictions on foodstuffs
purchased for non-commercial humanitarian
purposes by the UN’s World Food Programme,
which it said leads to significant inefficiencies
in humanitarian food assistance delivery. Japan,
Israel, the Republic of Korea, Singapore,
Switzerland and Chinese Taipei provided an
overview of export restrictions.
Japan said export restrictions impact markets and
make them more volatile by reducing supply. Many
members made reference to the work undertaken
before the Buenos Aires Ministerial Conference in
2017 and reiterated their support for an outcome
on this topic while a few developing countries
expressed concern that new requirements or
restrictions could limit their policy space.

Export competition
Canada made a presentation highlighting possible
issues to be explored further in the areas of export
financing, exporting state trading enterprises
(STEs) and international food aid to follow up
on the 2015 ministerial decision to eliminate
agricultural export subsidies (see page 67).
Several members expressed interest in continuing
to look at ways to improve disciplines on export
measures with equivalent effect agreed by
ministers in Nairobi. Many members highlighted
the existence of persistent data gaps in export
finance, exporting STEs and food aid and
stressed the need to fill these gaps to enable a
better assessment of possible ways the current
disciplines may be improved. Some members,
however, stated that export competition is not
their priority in the agriculture negotiations.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Ma rket ac c e s s for non-ag r ic u lt u ral p roduc t s
Background
Non-agricultural products
are products not covered
by the Agreement on
Agriculture. These range
from manufactured goods
to fuels and fisheries. The
negotiations aim to reduce
or, as appropriate, eliminate
tariffs as well as non-tariff
barriers, particularly on
goods of export interest to
developing countries. The
negotiations are conducted
in the Negotiating Group on
Market Access.

•	 The Negotiating Group on Market Access did not receive any papers or
proposals in 2018 and did not meet during the year.
The Chair of the Negotiating Group held
consultations in April 2018 with the sponsors
(Australia; Canada; the European Union; Hong
Kong, China; Japan; New Zealand; the Republic
of Korea; Singapore; and the Separate Customs
Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu)

of the “Ministerial Decision on Transparency of
Regulatory Measures for Trade in Goods” to
discuss what further steps could be taken. The
view was expressed that it would be preferable
to pursue this issue of transparency in regulatory
measures in other venues or contexts.

S e r v ic e s
•	 WTO members focused on a proposal for exploratory discussions on market access.
•	 India circulated a proposal for disciplines on domestic regulation relating to the movement
of individuals to supply services abroad.
Background on
services
The General Agreement
on Trade in Services
(GATS) mandates WTO
members to progressively
open up trade in services.
The negotiations are
overseen by the Council for
Trade in Services, meeting
in special session, and
its subsidiary bodies, in
particular the Working Party
on Domestic Regulation
and the Working Party
on GATS Rules.

Discussions in the special session of the
Council for Trade in Services, which oversees
negotiations, focused on a proposal for
exploratory discussions on market access put
forward by Chile, Mexico, New Zealand and
Panama. The proposal suggests that WTO
members exchange views on their current market
access interests against the background of
recent economic and policy developments
and without prejudice to negotiations.
After undertaking consultations with WTO
members, Ambassador Zhanar Aitzhanova
(Kazakhstan), who took over as Chair from
Argentina’s Ambassador Marcelo Cima in April
2018, encouraged members to submit papers
on sectors or issues of interest to kick-start
discussions in 2019. Noting that the services
commitments of most members are more
than two decades old, the Chair encouraged
members to engage in active reflection and
constructive discussions.

Domestic regulation
Negotiations on domestic regulation are carried
out by the working party, which has a mandate
to develop any necessary disciplines to ensure
that licensing and qualification requirements and
procedures do not constitute unnecessary barriers
to trade in services.
Market access for non-agricultural products
www.wto.org/namanegs

Services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs

Despite intensive discussions in 2017 on proposals
covering issues from general provisions to
transparency and gender equality, WTO members
could not achieve agreement at the 11th Ministerial
Conference in Buenos Aires at the end of 2017
on a way forward. As a result, a group of 60 WTO
members issued a joint ministerial statement at
the conference reaffirming their commitment to
advancing the talks and calling on all members
to intensify work, with the aim of concluding
negotiations on domestic regulation disciplines
in advance of the next ministerial conference,
which will take place in June 2020. This group is
organizing its work outside the working party (see
page 55). In light of this, no member expressed
interest in bringing any issue before the working
party until November 2018, when India circulated
a proposal for disciplines on domestic regulation
relating to the movement of individuals to
supply services abroad (Mode 4 of the General
Agreement on Trade in Services).
The proposal was discussed at a formal meeting
of the Working Party on Domestic Regulation in
December 2018. The proposal suggests increased
transparency, streamlined procedures for licensing
and qualification requirements, and adequate
processes to ensure that individuals who are
qualified outside a member’s territory are permitted
to supply services to another member.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

41

4

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

T rade -related a s p e c t s of i ntel le c t ual
p rop e r t y r ight s (TR I P S )
•	 The Chair convened two informal consultations with the most active members in the
negotiations on a register for geographical indications.
Background on
trade-related aspects
of intellectual
property rights
Negotiations on a multilateral
system for notifying and
registering geographical
indications for wines and
spirits are carried out in
the special session of the
TRIPS Council.

Register for geographical
indications
The Chair of the TRIPS Council special session,
Ambassador Dacio Castillo (Honduras), convened
two informal consultations in July and November
with the most active members in the negotiations
for a multilateral register of geographical
indications (GIs). WTO members reiterated
the importance they attach to the register and
confirmed their view that the WTO is the right
forum for these negotiations.
The purpose of the register is to facilitate the
protection of geographical indications (GIs)
for wines and spirits. These are indications
(including place names or other terms or signs
associated with a place) used to identify products
whose place of origin contributes to their special
qualities, reputation or other characteristics.

42

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

The consultations, however, have not yet
translated into a resumption of substantive
engagement in the special session. The Trade
Negotiations Committee has been kept informed
of developments.
Members have long disagreed on the legal
effects the register should have and whether
it should create obligations for all WTO
members or only those choosing to participate
in it. They remain divided on product coverage
and on whether, as the negotiating mandate
says, the register should be confined to wines
and spirits or whether it could also apply to
other products, such as food and agricultural
products. Differences also remain over whether
linkages should be made between the GI
register negotiations and other TRIPS-related
implementation issues (see page 90).

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/gi

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

T rade a nd development
•	 The Chair held consultations with WTO members on new approaches to negotiations on
special and differential treatment (S&D) for developing countries.
•	 The Chair detected “a different conversation that is worth pursuing further”.

Background on trade
and development
Special and differential
treatment (S&D) refers
to the special treatment,
or flexibility, granted to
developing countries in
WTO agreements, such
as longer implementation
periods. Many WTO
agreements contain
provisions that give
developing countries
special rights and that allow
developed countries to
treat them more favourably
than other WTO members.
Differences among WTO
members include the
definition of who exactly
should benefit from S&D.
The special session of
the Committee on Trade
and Development is
mandated to review all S&D
provisions, with a view to
making them more precise,
effective and operational.

The Chair of the Committee on Trade and
Development in special session, Ambassador
Tan Yee Woan of Singapore, held consultations
with WTO members with the aim of finding
new approaches to the negotiations on
special and differential treatment (S&D) for
developing countries.
Although no specific outcome was reached on
the proposals of the G90 group of developing
countries at the 11th Ministerial Conference
in Buenos Aires in December 2017, ministers
took the opportunity to engage in frank, openended discussions on trade and development
issues. A number of ideas and suggestions were
made, including calls for fresh approaches that
WTO members felt could help make progress.
In Buenos Aires, ministers highlighted that
development is central to WTO work.
The consultations helped the Chair to discern
two broad groups of ideas to explore. These are:
considering a methodology based on a case-study
approach; and considering suggestions aimed at
addressing concerns at a lack of differentiation
– the idea that WTO members at different levels
of development should not be granted the same
flexibilities, exemptions and concessions. The
latter included a possible voluntary opt-out by
some developing countries from some provisions.
Some members questioned whether according
S&D on a case-by-case or voluntary opt-out basis

could be applied to current WTO trade rules.
No consensus was found on these approaches.
Since the case-study methodology would
require facts, data and other kinds of detailed
preparation and engagement, some WTO
members would need to volunteer to be the
subject of such studies.
One idea that emerged from consultations later in
the year was that – as a test case – the G90 could
identify one or two of their Agreement-specific
proposals for exploring more deeply the feasibility
of a case-study approach. Work on the identified
proposals would also help to guide and determine
whether this approach could be replicated for the
remaining proposals.
A country specific, issue-based approach could
draw on concrete examples available in the
Trade Policy Review (TPR) knowledge base
and dispute settlement jurisprudence. Lessons
could be learned from the work and experience
of other intergovernmental organizations, such
as the World Bank, the International Monetary
Fund and other WTO committees’ work on
development. Some WTO members reiterated,
however, that instead of fresh approaches, what is
needed is the will to make progress on the G90’s
Agreement-specific proposals. Others backed a
fresh approach, saying there was a strong sense
of fatigue from the repetitive discussion of old
approaches in the special session.
Some developing countries reaffirmed their
view that a case-by-case approach departs from
the principle of S&D for all developing country
members. Some developed countries felt that
until the issue of differentiation is addressed,
discussion on S&D will not make any headway.
In her report to the Trade Negotiations
Committee in October, the Chair stated: “I
believe that we are starting to have a different
conversation that is worth pursuing further.” But
she said that the discussions are still at the level
of generalities and in an exploratory mode and
that the new approaches being proposed need
more exploration.

Trade and Development
www.wto.org/developmentnegs

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

43

4

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

T rade a nd env i ron ment
•	 The Chair of the Committee on Trade and Environment in special session held bilateral
consultations on the state of the negotiations.
•	 No new proposals were submitted.

Background on trade
and environment
The negotiations cover
the relationship between
existing WTO rules and
specific trade obligations
set out in multilateral
environmental agreements
(MEAs), procedures
for regular information
exchange between MEA
secretariats and the relevant
WTO committees, and the
reduction or, as appropriate,
elimination of tariff and
non-tariff barriers to trade
in environmental goods
and services.

44

The Chair of the special session of the Committee
on Trade and Environment, Ambassador Syed
Tauqir Shah (Pakistan), hosted in May a round of
bilateral consultations on the state of play in the
environment negotiations since the 11th Ministerial
Conference in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

As on previous occasions, WTO members
reiterated the importance of environmental issues
and of discussing trade and environment in the
WTO. However, no new ideas for reviving the
negotiations in the special session were suggested.

The Chair of the Ministerial Conference, Susana
Malcorra, noted in her closing remarks in Buenos
Aires that WTO members were committed to
advancing negotiations in all areas, including in
trade and environment.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environmentnegs

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

W TO r u le s : f i s he r ie s s u b s id ie s ,
ot he r W TO r u le s
•	 Fisheries subsidies remained the focus of work of the Negotiating Group on Rules in 2018.
•	 The 2018 work programme for fisheries subsidies negotiations comprised bilateral
consultations, technical sessions, thematic discussions and a brainstorming process to
generate new ideas for overcoming persistent differences.
•	 WTO members completed text-based discussions and streamlining based on documents
prepared for the 11th Ministerial Conference in December 2017 to consolidate all
negotiating positions in a single document.
•	 Members agreed on a work programme for January-July 2019 aimed at reaching agreement
on fisheries subsidies to meet an end-2019 ministerial deadline.
•	 During 2018, there was no activity in the Negotiating Group on any rules issues other than
fisheries subsidies.

Background on
WTO rules
In 2001, ministers launched
WTO negotiations to clarify
and improve WTO rules on
anti-dumping, subsidies
and countervailing
measures, fisheries
subsidies and regional
trade agreements. In 2005,
ministers elaborated the
negotiating mandates,
including for fisheries
subsidies. In 2017,
ministers decided on a
work programme for
fisheries subsidies
negotiations, with a view to
reaching an agreement by
December 2019.

In 2018, fisheries subsidies continued to be the
principal focus of work in the Negotiating Group
on Rules, chaired by Ambassador Roberto Zapata
(Mexico) who took over from Ambassador Wayne
McCook (Jamaica) in March. The Negotiating
Group worked on the basis of two agreed work
programmes, covering May-July and SeptemberDecember. In December, members agreed to
a work programme for the first seven months
of 2019 designed to engage members in a full
negotiating mode.
At the 11th Ministerial Conference in Buenos
Aires in December 2017, ministers decided to
continue the fisheries subsidies negotiations
with a view to reaching agreement by the end
of 2019. The aim is to set disciplines that would
prohibit certain forms of fisheries subsidies
that contribute to overcapacity and overfishing,
and eliminate subsidies to illegal, unreported
and unregulated fishing, with appropriate and

effective special and differential treatment for
developing countries as an integral part of the
negotiations. Ministers also re-committed to
implementation of existing notification obligations
in respect of fisheries subsidies.
The May-July work programme comprised three
week-long clusters of meetings. Each cluster
included technical sessions, with workshops in
which outside experts were involved, sessions
for WTO members to share information and
experiences, time for bilateral consultations
among delegations and thematic discussions
on the issues under negotiation.
WTO members also continued a streamlining
process based on the documents prepared in the
lead-up to the 11th Ministerial Conference. This
process was a complex and intensive examination
of the documents to identify areas where the text
could be consolidated and simplified.

Prohibiting fisheries
subsidies that
contribute to
overfishing is a
key component
of Sustainable
Development Goal 14.

WTO rules: fisheries subsidies, other WTO rules
www.wto.org/rulesnegs

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

45

4

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

Members agreed on
a work programme
aimed at reaching
an agreement on
fisheries subsidies
by end-2019.

The technical sessions and thematic discussions
continued during the September-December work
programme. In addition, WTO members began to
engage in discussions aimed at finding possible
new ideas and approaches that could bridge
persistent differences in positions, principally by
brainstorming in “incubator groups”. This process
involved informal discussions among small groups
of delegates. To ensure transparency, each
incubator group reported comprehensively on its
work to the full negotiating group.
During the same period, WTO members
completed a second streamlining process,
creating a single, unified text, and also engaged
in text-based discussions. The result included a
number of revisions to the documents referred to
in the Ministerial Decision on Fisheries Subsidies
at the 11th Ministerial Conference. The latest
streamlined document continues to contain
numerous alternatives on the issues addressed,
and the text-based discussions generated
further variations.

46

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

At the request of members, the WTO Secretariat
issued six factual papers as well as summaries
of the thematic discussions, a compilation of the
incubator group reports and an abstract of the
ideas discussed in that process.
The new work programme for January to July
2019 includes six clusters of meetings of one
week each, where each week will include a mix
of consultations open to all members and time
set aside for delegations to organize their own
meetings. In addition, the programme includes
the appointment of four facilitators to assist the
Chair in various areas. The immediate objective
is to develop simplified negotiating texts with
fewer options as the basis for eventual decisionmaking by members by the end of 2019.
During 2018, there was no activity in the
Negotiating Group on any rules issues other
than fisheries subsidies.

WTO rules: fisheries subsidies, other WTO rules
www.wto.org/rulesnegs

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

D i s pute S et t lement Unde r s ta nd i ng
•	 WTO members continued making progress in working through the 12 issues
under discussion.

Background on
negotiations on the
Dispute Settlement
Understanding
In November 2001, at the
Doha Ministerial Conference,
WTO members agreed
to negotiate to improve
and clarify the Dispute
Settlement Understanding
– the rules and procedures
governing the settlement
of WTO disputes. These
negotiations take place
in special sessions of the
Dispute Settlement Body.

Chaired by Ambassador Coly Seck of Senegal,
the Dispute Settlement Body in special session
held around 15 meetings in 2018. The work in
which the special session has been engaged
since late 2016 concentrates on proposals
submitted by members at an earlier stage of
the negotiations.
The proposals have been classed into 12
issues on which WTO members agreed to
conduct negotiations (developing country
interests, effective compliance, flexibility and
member control, mutually agreed solutions,
panel composition, post-retaliation, remand,
sequencing, strictly confidential information,
third-party rights, timeframes, transparency
and amicus curiae briefs).
In 2018, the special session continued focused
work aimed at obtaining an updated picture of the
potential for agreement among WTO members
on incremental outcomes on individual issues or
a comprehensive result covering several or all 12
issues. In some instances, it became clear that,

Dispute Settlement Understanding
www.wto.org/disputenegs

owing to the passing of time and developments in
dispute settlement, there was less convergence
than before.
The issues on which work was completed in 2018
covered technically difficult issues as well as
issues on which members’ views have diverged in
the past (post-retaliation, transparency and amicus
curiae briefs, timeframes and remand). At the end
of the year, the Dispute Settlement Body in special
session was left with four issues for discussion in
2019 (panel composition, flexibility and member
control, effective compliance, and developing
country interests). Some members expressed an
interest in expediting the remaining work to allow
for a prompt assessment of progress covering all
12 issues.
Towards the end of 2018, some members put
forward proposals on WTO reform, some of which
also cover aspects of the dispute settlement system.
Initial discussions on those proposals took place in
the WTO’s General Council (see page 58).

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

47

4

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

Joi nt i n it iat ive s
Background on the joint initiatives
At the 11th Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires in December 2017,
four like-minded groups of WTO members issued joint statements
committing themselves to advancing work in four areas: initiating
exploratory work towards future negotiations on trade-related aspects
of e-commerce; developing a multilateral framework on investment
facilitation; launching an Informal Working Group on micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises, with the aim of establishing a formal work
programme; and increasing the participation of women in trade. In
addition, another group reaffirmed its commitment to advancing ongoing
talks on domestic regulation in services trade. The work of these groups
is not supported by all WTO members. The conveners of the groups
encouraged other WTO members to join them.

Electronic commerce

48

Investment facilitation for development

50

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises

51

Trade and women’s empowerment

53

E le c t ron ic c om me rc e
•	 Members of the Joint Statement on Electronic Commerce began exploring the possibility of
WTO negotiations on trade-related aspects of e-commerce, holding nine meetings in 2018.
•	 The result was that ministers from 76 WTO members announced in January 2019 their
intention to launch the negotiations.
•	 They stressed that the negotiations are open to all and continued to encourage all WTO
members to participate.

48

Members of the Joint Statement on Electronic
Commerce initiative began to explore the possibility
of WTO negotiations on trade-related aspects of
electronic commerce, holding nine meetings in
2018 to which all WTO members were invited.
The meetings were co-convened by Australia,
Japan and Singapore and chaired by Australia.

he said: “The joint statement was signed by a large
and diverse group of WTO members, including
least-developed, developing and developed
members. It is encouraging to see members, at
different levels of development, taking meaningful
steps towards a deeper discussion and broader
understanding of e-commerce issues”.

At the 11th Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires
in December 2017, 71 ministers had issued a
joint statement saying they had agreed to initiate
“exploratory work together toward future WTO
negotiations on trade-related aspects of electronic
commerce”. They stressed that participation
would be open to all WTO members and would
be without prejudice to participants’ positions on
future negotiations.

At the March meeting, delegations were urged
to submit papers to identify issues of interest
to WTO members. Based on the issues raised,
the discussions were organized under four main
themes: enabling digital trade/e-commerce;
openness and digital trade/e-commerce; trust
and digital trade/e-commerce; and cross-cutting
issues, including development, transparency
and cooperation.

At the first meeting in March 2018, Deputy
Director-General Xiaozhun Yi commended
the proponents of the initiative for keeping the
discussions within the WTO and open to all.
Speaking on behalf of the Director-General,

Under enabling digital trade, participating
WTO members addressed trade facilitation
measures related to customs and logistics, and
measures to facilitate electronic transactions,
such as trade-related aspects of online payment

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Electronic commerce

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

solutions, electronic authentication, e-signatures
and e-contracts. With regard to openness, they
explored goods and services market access
relating to e-commerce and trade-related aspects
of the cross-border flow of information.
Under the issue of trust, WTO members
discussed the need to foster consumer and
business trust in e-commerce – for example, by
putting in place measures related to consumer
and personal data protection, protection of
industry data, source code and algorithms,
intellectual property and cybersecurity. Finally,
they addressed: a variety of cross-cutting issues
relating to the publication and accessibility of laws
and regulations relating to e-commerce; ways of
addressing the digital divide, including through
the provision of technical assistance, longer
implementation timeframes and relevant market
access commitments; and the importance of
cooperation between WTO members’ regulatory
authorities, the public and private sector, and
between relevant international organizations.
For each topic, delegations introduced their
proposals, shared their national experiences and
provided textual examples from their regional trade
agreements, where e-commerce is often covered
more thoroughly than it is multilaterally. Some
background papers were prepared to help guide
the discussions.

At a stocktaking meeting in July, the co-conveners
presented a “snapshot” document highlighting
work done, suggestions made by WTO members
and the next steps in the process. Work post-July
continued on the basis of the four thematic areas,
with delegations introducing a variety of textual
examples and ways of addressing each topic.
At a meeting on the margins of the World
Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland,
in January 2019, ministers from 76 WTO
members, which account for 90 per cent of
global trade, announced their intention to begin
WTO negotiations on trade-related aspects of
electronic commerce. In the joint statement, they
said they will “seek to achieve a high standard
outcome that builds on existing WTO agreements
and frameworks with the participation of as many
WTO members as possible”.
The statement said the group recognises and
“will take into account the unique opportunities
and challenges faced by members, including
developing countries and least-developed
countries (LDCs), as well as by micro, small and
medium sized enterprises (MSMEs), in relation
to electronic commerce”. They continued to
encourage all WTO members to participate.

4

76 WTO members
announced their
intention to begin
WTO negotiations
on trade-related
aspects of
e-commerce.

Electronic commerce

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

I nve s t ment fac i l itat ion for development
•	 Recognizing the links between trade, investment and development, the initiative aims to
identify and develop the elements of a more investment-friendly, transparent, predictable
and efficient business climate.
•	 In line with the joint ministerial statement issued in December 2017, the initiative does not
address market access, investment protection and investor-state dispute settlement.
•	 The initiative made progress in enhancing participants’ understanding of the issues,
including how a multilateral framework on investment facilitation could support WTO
members’ efforts to facilitate investment.
•	 Facilitating greater participation by developing and least-developed countries in global
investment flows is at the core of the discussions.
During 2018, discussions on investment facilitation
for development, held under an initiative launched
in December 2017 by 70 WTO members, made
substantive progress.
Over 70 members on
average attended the
eight meetings.

Over 70 members on average attended the
eight meetings – from developed, developing
and least-developed members. They included
both signatories and non-signatories of the joint
ministerial statement on investment facilitation
for development issued at the 11th Ministerial
Conference in Buenos Aires in December 2017. A
stock-taking meeting took place in December 2018.
Participation in the meetings has been without
prejudice to members’ positions on the initiative.
The December 2017 joint ministerial statement
called for “beginning structured discussions with
the aim of developing a multilateral framework on
investment facilitation”. These discussions seek to
identify and develop the elements of a framework
for facilitating foreign direct investments. The joint
statement made clear that the discussions would not
address market access, investment protection and
investor-state dispute settlement. It encouraged all
WTO members to actively participate in the initiative.
In the same way that the WTO is helping to
facilitate global trade – with its 2017 Trade
Facilitation Agreement (see page 86) – a growing
number of members argue that the WTO could
help to facilitate global investment.
According to the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD), developing
countries need an additional US$ 2.5 trillion in
investment annually to achieve the United Nations
2030 Sustainable Development Goals, and
foreign direct investment (FDI) remains the largest
and most constant external source of finance
for developing economies. FDI is particularly
important for least-developed countries.
Investment is not a new subject for the multilateral
trading system. WTO members already undertook
important investment-related commitments in

50

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

the Uruguay Round, notably in the General
Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS),
the Agreement on Trade-Related Investment
Measures and the Agreement on Government
Procurement. The GATS contains elements
applying directly to certain investment measures.

Structured discussions
Participants organized the meetings thematically
and, in accordance with the joint statement,
addressed the elements of a multilateral
framework that would improve the transparency
and predictability of investment measures,
streamline and speed up administrative procedures
and requirements, and enhance international
cooperation, information sharing, the exchange
of best practices and relations with relevant
stakeholders, including dispute prevention.
Development was at the core of the discussions.
Meetings benefited from presentations by experts
from WTO members’ capitals and international
organizations as well as background “non-papers”
on each relevant topic examining notably existing
WTO provisions and how these are relevant
to investment facilitation. All documents were
circulated to all WTO members. The coordinator
of the discussions, Ambassador Juan-Carlos
González (Colombia), regularly reported to the
entire WTO membership as well as individual
country groupings on request.
At the stock-taking meeting in December 2018,
participants agreed that the discussions had
successfully identified possible elements of a
multilateral framework on investment facilitation.
The coordinator compiled, under his own
responsibility, a checklist of issues raised by
members. There was broad agreement that
work starting in 2019 will focus on developing
the possible elements, using the checklist as a
reference. A proposed schedule of meetings for the
first part of 2019, prepared under the coordinator’s
responsibility, was circulated to all members.

Investment facilitation for development

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

M ic ro, s m al l a nd med iu m- s i z ed ente r p r i s e s
•	 The Informal Working Group on Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (MSMEs) held
its first thematic sessions. Membership rose to 89 when Armenia joined at year-end.
•	 At its five thematic sessions, the informal group discussed a range of cross-cutting topics,
from access to information to trade facilitation and trade finance.
•	 The group appointed Uruguay as general coordinator for 2018 and named a coordinating
committee of eight WTO members.

The working group
aims to address
obstacles to MSME
participation in
international trade.

The Informal Working Group on MSMEs, launched
in December 2017 by 88 WTO members,
appointed Uruguay as its general coordinator for
2018 and established a coordinating committee
composed of eight members: Bahrain; Côte
d’Ivoire; El Salvador; Hong Kong, China; Nigeria;
Pakistan; the Philippines; and Switzerland.
The working group, which is open to all WTO
members, aims to address obstacles to MSME
participation in international trade.
The group, whose members account for 78 per
cent of world exports, held five thematic sessions
in the year to discuss cross-cutting issues,
including access to information, trade finance
(see page 108), trade costs and trade facilitation
(see page 86), technical assistance and capacity
building, and the internet as a tool to access
global markets.

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises

Thematic sessions
Switzerland hosted the first thematic session in
March on the importance of adequate access
to information. Members were presented with
an information platform called the Global Trade
Helpdesk (HelpMeTrade.org) – a joint ITCUNCTAD-WTO project, launched at the WTO’s 11th
Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires. Numerous
studies – by the WTO and the International Trade
Centre (ITC), among others – show that lack
of transparency and poor access to information
regarding distribution channels, export markets
and applicable procedures are major barriers to
MSMEs’ participation in international trade.
Discussions focused on the need for MSMEs to
receive information in their own language, on the
responsibility of governments to inform MSMEs
of initiatives such as the Helpdesk and on the

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

51

4

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions
importance of establishing national contact points
to provide policy updates and to help collect
information. The group called on WTO members
to support the Helpdesk.
A follow-up meeting in May discussed actions
members could take to support the project,
including the distribution of a country survey to
map information sources and the establishment
of national contact points. In November, the
WTO, ITC and UNCTAD agreed to further
develop the platform. As part of the agreement,
they will provide technical assistance to
developing countries to help them maintain upto-date information in the Helpdesk and will raise
awareness among MSMEs about how to benefit
from this trade information.
Côte d’Ivoire organized the second thematic
session in June to discuss the trade finance
gap for MSMEs. Participants shared their
national experiences and expressed an interest
in mapping national and regional programmes
that support MSMEs’ access to trade finance.
The group also heard a presentation on the
Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) – a free 20-digit
alpha-numeric code that profiles “who is who”
and “who owns what”. It is used for identifying
businesses involved in international financial
transactions and could benefit MSMEs.
On World MSME day (27 June), Pakistan hosted
a meeting on trade costs and trade facilitation
issues affecting MSMEs. Participants expressed

interest in further examining trade facilitation
measures, such as how to standardize import and
export documents, including certificates of origin.
Addressing the meeting, DG Azevêdo highlighted
how the WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement will
ease small businesses’ participation in global
markets by cutting trade costs and reducing
administrative burdens.
At the 2018 Public Forum (see page 150),
El Salvador and the Philippines organized a
working session on “Enabling Global MSMEs:
How technical assistance and capacity-building
initiatives could take into account the trade
needs and challenges of MSMEs”. The session
concluded that technical assistance and capacity
building should focus on access to information,
access to finance and access to markets.
The last thematic session of the year focused on
the internet as a tool to access global markets.
Participants stressed the need for a broad
exchange of experience and knowledge about how
to make the internet accessible to their populations.
The diversity of levels of development and base
levels of digital literacy were noted, all of which
contribute to very different needs and challenges.
At the final meeting in November, Uruguay
expressed three key objectives for the group in
2019: achieve concrete deliverables, expand
group membership and aim for a ministerial
declaration in 2020. During the meeting Armenia
was welcomed as the 89th member of the group.

DG Azevêdo
addressed,
by invitation, a
workshop organized
by the Informal
Group on MSMEs on
World MSME Day.

52

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

T rade a nd women’s emp owe r ment
•	 A group of WTO members held three workshops on how trade can promote women’s
economic empowerment, responding to the call in the Buenos Aires 2017 Declaration.
•	 The discussions focused on the importance of gender-based analysis in trade and ways
in which government procurement markets and global value chains can foster women’s
integration into trade.
•	 Some members used their trade policy reviews to highlight steps they are taking to
promote gender equality.

The Buenos Aires
Declaration seeks
to foster women’s
integration into
world trade.

In 2018, a group of WTO members held the first
three of six workshops intended to build on the
2017 Buenos Aires Declaration on Trade and
Women’s Economic Empowerment. Launched
at the 11th Ministerial Conference and endorsed
by over 120 WTO members, the declaration
seeks to remove barriers to women’s economic
empowerment and to foster women’s integration
into world trade. It sees exchanging information on
policies and programmes and collecting relevant
economic data as key steps.
The three workshops – held in March, June
and October – focused, respectively, on the
importance of gender-based analysis in trade,
government procurement markets and their
importance for inclusive economic development,
and how global value chains can foster women’s
economic empowerment. The remaining three
workshops will be held in 2019, with the
discussions reflected in a report to the 12th
Ministerial Conference in 2020.

Addressing the workshop, DG Azevêdo said:
“Improving women’s access to this sector
would unlock many opportunities for female
entrepreneurs, with a direct impact on their
economic wellbeing. The sheer size of the
global public procurement market underlines the
potential.” The workshop was co-organized by
Moldova, the WTO, the ITC and the European
Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
The third workshop focused on the challenges
women face in integrating into global value
chains (GVCs). It highlighted the perspectives
of various participants in GVCs, best practices
and experiences of WTO members.

4

Ms Anoush der Boghossian, the WTO’s Trade
and Gender Focal Point, said: “Today, more than
70 per cent of world trade passes through global
value chains. If we want to make trade work for
women and to expand their participation in trade

In March, economists and policy makers shared
their methods for gathering and studying data on
how gender and trade intersect – from women’s
participation as entrepreneurs and workers to
their role as consumers. Many of the presentations
pointed to the fact that, in general, businesses
owned by women export less than companies
owned by men.
The June workshop addressed the participation
of women-owned businesses and traders in
government procurement markets and brought
together specialists in this sector, representatives
from international organizations, WTO members
and experts. Speakers highlighted the small
share of public procurement business awarded
to enterprises owned by women, estimated at
1 per cent by the International Trade Centre (ITC).

Trade and women’s empowerment
wwww.wto.org/womenandtrade

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations and discussions

The June workshop
addressed the
participation of
women-owned
businesses in
government
procurement
markets.

through global value chains, the WTO can offer
some solutions. Through capacity-building in
the area of standards, the implementation of the
Trade Facilitation Agreement, Aid for Trade and
promoting targeted trade policies, the WTO can
help to empower women.”
The Trade and Gender Focal Point was appointed
in June 2017 and tasked with coordinating work
among divisions on gender issues, taking stock
of what the WTO is doing and considering
opportunities for further work and new initiatives
(see page 113).

54

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Some WTO members have used their trade policy
reviews to highlight policy developments that
contribute to gender equality. The reviews were
identified in the Buenos Aires Declaration as one
of the processes that could be used by members
to share information. In 2018, six members (the
European Union, Iceland, The Gambia, Montenegro,
the Philippines and Colombia) reported trade
policies targeting women’s empowerment.
Members under review also received questions on
their policies relating to women’s empowerment,
with the objective of clarifying policies and
gathering additional information.

Trade and women’s empowerment
www.wto.org/womenandtrade

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Joi nt s tatement on dome s t ic reg u lat ion
of t rade i n s e r v ic e s
•	 Participants in the joint initiative on domestic regulation for services trade held their first
meetings and made progress in discussions on new disciplines.
•	 Work will continue, with the aim of achieving an outcome by the next Ministerial
Conference in June 2020.

A group of 60
members convened
meetings open to all
members.

In 2018, a group of 60 members convened
meetings open to all WTO members, with
a view to advancing text-based discussions
on domestic regulation, as agreed by a
Joint Ministerial Statement issued at the 11th
Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires in
December 2017. Work was based on a text
proposal submitted by a group of 57 members
to the Ministerial Conference. The group met
eight times during the year.
The work is organized outside the Working
Party on Domestic Regulation (see page 41),
which has a mandate to develop any necessary
disciplines to ensure that members’ regulations
relating to licensing, qualification and technical
standards do not constitute unnecessary barriers
to trade in services.
Intensive discussions in the Working Party, a
subsidiary of the Council for Trade in Services,
in the run-up to and during the 11th Ministerial
Conference failed to achieve agreement on
proposals for concluding the negotiations.
At the centre of debate were proposals
put forward by 57 members (counting EU
member states individually) in a consolidated

Joint statement on domestic regulation of trade in services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs

single text. The proposed disciplines covered
general provisions, administration of measures,
independence, transparency, technical
standards, development of measures, nondiscrimination between men and women,
necessity and development.
At the Conference, 60 members issued a joint
ministerial statement reaffirming their commitment
to advancing the talks and called on all WTO
members to intensify work in this area. They said
that the aim is to deliver “a multilateral outcome”
and that the group will continue working with
“all members” to conclude the negotiations of
disciplines “in advance of the next ministerial
conference”, which is due to be held in Nur-Sultan,
Kazakhstan, in June 2020.
The Chair of the talks, Mr Felipe Hees (Brazil),
noted at the end of 2018 that there were no
outstanding issues among participants on most
of the proposed substantive obligations although
the square brackets around the text indicated
that the entire text remained under consideration.
Further work was required in 2019 on some
elements, the Chair noted.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

55

4

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

I mplementat ion a nd mon itor i ng
General Council

58

Trade in goods

62

Market access

64

Agriculture

66

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures

69

Technical barriers to trade

72

Subsidies and countervailing measures

75

Anti-dumping practices

76

Customs valuation

78

Rules of origin

79

Import licensing

81

Safeguards

82

Trade-related investment measures

83

Information Technology Agreement

84

State trading enterprises

85

Trade in civil aircraft

85

Trade facilitation

86

Trade in services

88

Background on
implementation
and monitoring

Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS)

90

Various WTO councils
and committees seek
to ensure that WTO
agreements are being
properly implemented.
All WTO members
undergo periodic scrutiny
of their trade policies
and practices.

Trade and environment

93

Spotlight: High-level event on trade
and environment

96

Trade and transfer of technology

98

Regional trade agreements

99

Trade policy reviews
Trade Policy Reviews in 2018

56

102
104

Trade monitoring reports

106

Trade, debt and finance

108

Government Procurement Agreement

110

Trade and women’s empowerment

113

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

5
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

G ene ral C ou nc i l
•	 The 12th WTO Ministerial Conference will take place in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan,
on 8-11 June 2020.
•	 The General Council held substantive debates on trade tensions. Forty-one members
issued a statement calling on WTO members to refrain from protectionist measures.
•	 The Council discussed the long-standing moratorium on customs duties on electronic
transmissions and ways to reinvigorate the work programme on e-commerce.

Background on the
General Council
The General Council is
entrusted with carrying out
the functions of the WTO
and taking actions necessary
to this effect between
ministerial conferences in
addition to carrying out the
specific tasks assigned
to it by the Agreement
establishing the WTO.

12th Ministerial Conference

Trade tensions

The General Council agreed that the 12
WTO Ministerial Conference will take place in
Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, on 8-11 June 2020.
Thanking the Kazakhstan Government for its
invitation, DG Azevêdo said: “Coming from one of
the newest WTO members, this is powerful.”
th

The date was agreed on the understanding
that the 2019 deadline set in the 11th Ministerial
Conference decision on fisheries subsidies
(see page 45) is upheld and that the 2019
dates relating to the two moratoria on electronic
commerce (see page 88) and on Trade-related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS)
non-violation and situation complaints (see page
92) are also maintained.
Kazakhstan, which joined the WTO in 2015,
will be the first country in Central Asia to host
the event. The 11th Ministerial Conference took
place in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

G e n e ra l C ou nc i l
ag r e e s t h at t h e
12 t h W T O M i n i s te r ia l
C o n fe r e nc e w i l l t ake
pl ac e i n Nu r- S u lt a n ,
K a z ak h s t a n

58

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

8 –11 Ju n e

2020

Substantive debates took place in the General
Council on trade tensions. In March and May,
WTO members commented on issues raised by
China on possible trade-restrictive measures by
the United States and on US investigations under
Section 232 of the 1962 Trade Expansion Act
into the effects of imports of steel and aluminium
products on US national security (see page 62).
WTO members also commented on US measures
on steel and aluminium products (see page 82)
as well as investigations and measures concerning
China’s trade practices relating to intellectual
property, technology transfer and innovation under
Section 301 of the US Trade Act of 1974.
Forty-one members issued a statement on 8 May
expressing concerns over rising trade tensions
and risks of protectionism. The statement calls on
governments to resolve their differences through
dialogue and cooperation, including through

1

st

ho s t i n
C ent ral A s ia

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Implementation of Bali, Nairobi
and Buenos Aires outcomes
The General Council regularly reviewed progress
in the implementation of decisions that ministers
took at the 9th, 10th and 11th ministerial conferences
in Bali, Nairobi and Buenos Aires respectively.
The Chair reported on the implementation of
the Nairobi Decision on Export Competition
(see page 67), including steps taken by WTO
members with scheduled export subsidy reduction
commitments to eliminate their entitlements.
Regular reports and discussions also took place
on efforts to implement the decisions benefiting
least-developed countries (LDCs), such as those
on preferential rules of origin (see page 79), on
the implementation of the services waiver (see
page 88) and on duty-free and quota-free market
access (see page 130).

Work programme on
electronic commerce

The General Council
was chaired by
Junichi Ihara in 2018.

the WTO. The co-sponsors of the statement,
which included both developed and developing
countries, said a well-functioning, rules-based
multilateral trading system embodied in the WTO
is of “key importance”. They encouraged WTO
members to “refrain from taking protectionist
measures and to avoid risks of escalation”.
In July, the Council debated an issue introduced
by the United States regarding its “Views on
China’s Trade-Disruptive Economic Model and
Implications for the WTO”. China replied that it
has been a strong advocate for free trade and
has “comprehensively fulfilled its commitments
to the WTO”.

Appellate Body

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

In April 2018, the Chair held consultations on
how to implement the Buenos Aires ministerial
instruction to reinvigorate the work programme
on electronic commerce. The Chair encouraged
delegations to share ideas and papers and
advance the conversation on e-commerce. The
chairs of the Council for Trade in Services, the
Council for Trade in Goods, the TRIPS Council
and the Committee on Trade and Development
reported on work in their respective areas.
China made a video presentation on a two-week
e-commerce workshop it had organized.
The General Council also considered a
submission from India and South Africa calling for
a rethink of the moratorium on customs duties on
electronic transmissions. The moratorium, which
has been in place since 1998, has been regularly
extended at ministerial conferences.

At its meeting on 12 December, the General
Council agreed to launch an informal process
to overcome an impasse in the selection of
Appellate Body members (see page 124).
The Appellate Body consists of seven persons
but currently WTO members remain divided on
the selection process to appoint replacements
for four of the seven members of the Appellate
Body whose term in office has expired.

The Chair convened an informal open-ended
meeting on the issue in late November. The
suggested topics for discussion included: the
scope and definition of electronic transmissions;
revenue implications of the moratorium; the
technical feasibility of imposing customs duties on
electronic transmissions; and the broader impact
of the moratorium on trade and industrialization.
The members recognized the need for more
analysis and information on the issues raised.

General Council Chair Ambassador Junichi
Ihara (Japan) said in January 2019 that he had
appointed Ambassador David Walker of New
Zealand as facilitator to assist him in working
with WTO members to resolve differences on
the functioning of the Appellate Body.

The Chair welcomed discussion on the moratorium
as a good step towards reinvigorating the work
programme. He hoped that discussions could
continue in a transparent and inclusive manner,
keeping in mind the ministerial deadline for a
decision on the moratorium by the end of 2019.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

59

5

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

LDC proposal on subsidies and
countervailing measures

• Canada – CARIBCAN, granted on 28 July 2015
until 31 December 2023

Chad presented a proposal on behalf of LDCs
that countries graduating from LDC status
(see page 132) should continue to be exempt
from a prohibition on export subsidies under
the Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
Agreement for as long as their per capita gross
national product (GNP) remains below
US$ 1,000 in constant 1990 dollars.

• United States – Caribbean Basin Economic
Recovery Act, granted on 5 May 2015 until 31
December 2019

Other reports
The General Council considered the regular
reports on the work programme on small
economies, the development assistance aspects
of cotton, the TRIPS Council’s annual review
of the special compulsory licensing system
(see page 90) and the new biennial work
programme on Aid for Trade (see page 135).

Waivers under Article IX of the
WTO Agreement
The General Council considered and granted
four waivers from obligations under the WTO
Agreement, as set out in Table 1.
It also reviewed the following multi-year waivers:
• LDC members – Obligations under Article 70.8
and Article 70.9 of the TRIPS Agreement with
respect to pharmaceutical products, granted on
30 November 2015 until 1 January 2033
• Preferential treatment for LDCs, granted on
27 May 2009 until 30 June 2019
• Preferential treatment in favour of services
and service suppliers of LDCs, granted on 17
December 2011 until 31 December 2030

• Cuba – Article XV:6 – Extension of waiver, granted
on 7 December 2016 until 31 December 2021
• European Union – Application of autonomous
preferential treatment to the Western Balkans,
granted on 7 December 2016 until 31
December 2021
• United States – African Growth and Opportunity
Act, granted on 30 November 2015 until
30 September 2025
• United States – Former Trust Territory of the
Pacific Islands, granted on 7 December 2016
until 31 December 2026
• United States – Trade preferences granted
to Nepal, granted on 7 December 2016 until
31 December 2025.

Other issues
As part of its overall oversight function, the
General Council conducted a year-end review
of WTO activities on the basis of annual reports
from all its subsidiary bodies.
The Council also considered a report from the
Joint Advisory Group of the International Trade
Centre (ITC), which is the policymaking body
of the ITC, the trade promotion agency for
developing countries jointly sponsored by the
WTO and the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD).

Substantive debates
took place in the
General Council on
trade tensions.

60

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Table 1: Waivers under Article IX (decision-making) of the WTO Agreement
In 2018, the General Council granted the following waivers from obligations under the WTO agreements.
Member

Type

Date of
adoption

Expiry date

Decision

Australia; Botswana; Brazil; Cambodia; Canada; European
Union; Guyana; India; Japan; Kazakhstan; Republic of
Korea; Malaysia; Mauritius; Montenegro; Namibia; Norway;
Panama; Russian Federation; Sierra Leone; Singapore;
South Africa; Sri Lanka; Switzerland; Separate Customs
Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu; Thailand;
Turkey; Ukraine; and United States

Kimberly Process Certification Scheme
for Rough Diamonds – Extension of
Waiver

26 July 2018

31 December 2024

WT/L/1039

China

Introduction of Harmonized System 2002
Changes into WTO Schedules of Tariff
Concessions

12 December 2018

31 December 2019

WT/L/1048

Argentina; Brazil; China; Dominican Republic; European
Union; Malaysia; Philippines; and Thailand

Introduction of Harmonized System 2007
Changes into WTO Schedules of Tariff
Concessions

12 December 2018

31 December 2019

WT/L/1049

Argentina; Australia; Brazil; Canada; China; Colombia;
Costa Rica; Dominican Republic; El Salvador; European
Union; Guatemala; Honduras; Hong Kong, China; India;
Israel; Kazakhstan; Republic of Korea; Macao, China;
Malaysia; Mexico; New Zealand; Norway; Pakistan;
Philippines; Russian Federation; Singapore; Switzerland;
Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen
and Matsu; Thailand; and United States

Introduction of Harmonized System 2012
Changes into WTO Schedules of Tariff
Concessions

12 December 2018

31 December 2019

WT/L/1050

Argentina; Brazil; Canada; China; Colombia; Costa
Rica; Dominican Republic; El Salvador; European
Union; Guatemala; Honduras; Hong Kong, China; India;
Israel; Kazakhstan; Republic of Korea; Macao, China;
Montenegro; New Zealand; Norway; Pakistan; Paraguay;
Philippines; Russian Federation; Switzerland; Thailand;
Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen
and Matsu; United States; and Uruguay.

Introduction of Harmonized System 2017
Changes into WTO Schedules of Tariff
Concessions

12 December 2018

31 December 2019

WT/L/1051

5

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

61

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade i n good s
•	 An increased number of trade concerns were brought to the Council for Trade in Goods,
including 21 new concerns.
•	 Several WTO members submitted a comprehensive proposal to enhance transparency
and strengthen notification requirements.

Background on
trade in goods

WTO members raised 21 new trade concerns in
2018, up from 12 the previous year (see Table 2).

The Council for Trade in
Goods is responsible for
the workings of WTO
agreements on trade in
goods. It consists of the
full WTO membership
and reports to the WTO
General Council. The
Goods Council has 12
subsidiary committees
dealing with specific
subjects, such as agriculture,
market access, subsidies,
technical barriers to trade,
sanitary and phytosanitary
measures, import licensing,
customs valuation, and the
new WTO Committee on
Trade Facilitation. These
committees also comprise
all WTO members.
Working parties on state
trading enterprises and the
Information Technology
Agreement also report
to the Goods Council.

Twelve WTO members – Argentina, Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Mexico, New
Zealand, Chinese Taipei, Thailand, the United
States and Uruguay – raised the issue of the EU’s
renegotiation of tariff-rate quota commitments in
response to the United Kingdom’s decision to
leave the EU, particularly regarding reduction of
market access, the large number of agricultural
products included, and the use of an uncertified
schedule of commitments as the basis for
the modifications.
Some WTO members expressed their concerns
over possible extra duties by the United States on
the import of automobiles, including cars, SUVs,
vans, light trucks and automotive parts, on national
security grounds. Over 40 members warned of the
serious disruption to world markets that may arise
given the weight of these products in global trade.
WTO members expressed clear support for
the preservation of the rules-based multilateral
trading system and encouraged the membership
not to engage in a trade war but instead to use
existing WTO mechanisms for dealing with unfair
trade practices.
WTO members also addressed previous trade
concerns brought to the Council. These included
Indonesia’s import and export policies, India’s
quantitative restrictions on imports of mungo beans
and certain pulses, India’s customs duties on ICT
products, US measures related to imports of fish
and seafood products, Russia’s trade-restricting
practices, Egypt’s manufacturer registration system,
China’s customs duties on certain integrated
circuits, and an import levy set by WTO members
of the African Union to fund the group’s operational
and program budgets and peace fund.

Table 2: New trade concerns raised in the
Council for Trade in Goods in 2018
Mexico’s customs processing fee
Viet Nam's decree on the regulation of conditions for
automobile manufacturing, assembling, importing and
maintenance services
China's new export control law
Mongolia's quantitative restrictions on certain
agricultural products
China's measures restricting imports of scrap materials
EU directive on renewable energy
US safeguard measures against imported crystalline silicon
photovoltaic cells and residential washers
Section 301 of the US Trade Act
US certification of aviation security equipment
EU registration as geographical indications (GIs) of
"Danbo" and "Havarti" to market cheeses
Selective tax on certain imported products imposed by
Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain
Haiti's application of higher duties than the bound level
and ban on the overland export of 23 products from the
Dominican Republic
Measures by India and Pakistan on sugar exports
US proposal on communication equipment or services
released by the Federal Communications Commission
EU enlargement to include Croatia
US export restrictions on certain enterprises of China
EU draft implementing regulations regarding protected
designations of origin and GIs, traditional terms, labelling and
presentation of certain wine products
Australia's discriminatory market access prohibition on
5G equipment
EU renegotiation of tariff-rate quota commitments in response
to Brexit (see below)
US 232 investigations and measures on imports of steel
and aluminium
India's quantitative restrictions on imports of certain pulses

62

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Transparency

E-commerce

At the November meeting, following the
submission of a revised US proposal on
transparency, several WTO members
submitted a comprehensive proposal to
enhance transparency and strengthen
notification requirements. All 38 members
that intervened at the meeting highlighted
transparency as a fundamental pillar
of the multilateral trading system.

The Council continued discussing e-commerce
in response to the call from the 11th Ministerial
Conference to reinvigorate the WTO’s work
in this area.

However, some WTO members noted that
the difficulties of developing countries should
be taken into account while others expressed
concerns about the administrative sanctions
contained in the proposal. Members also
highlighted the important role of the annual
report on members’ notifications prepared
by the WTO Secretariat.

Waiver requests
The Council approved a request for a six-year
extension to the waiver concerning the Kimberley
Process Certification Scheme for Rough
Diamonds, which aims to break the link between
armed conflict, illicit trade and rough diamonds.
It would have expired at the end of 2018.
As a follow-up to Jordan’s request for a waiver
and its commitment to phase out its export subsidy
programme, the Council took note of Jordan’s
update on progress and its reiterated commitment
to terminate the programme by the end of 2018.

5

Measures on
imports of steel and
aluminium were
among the new trade
concerns raised by
WTO members.

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

63

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

M a rket ac c e s s
•	 WTO members raised 16 trade concerns at the Committee.
•	 The Committee made good progress in updating members’ schedules of commitments
to reflect the latest tariff classifications of the World Customs Organization.
•	 The Committee received 26 notifications of quantitative restrictions, more than twice
the number of 2017.

Background on
market access
The Committee on Market
Access supervises the
implementation of tariff
and non-tariff measures
not covered by any other
WTO body. In addition, it
seeks to ensure that WTO
members’ schedules of
commitments are up to date,
including changes required
to reflect amendments to
the Harmonized System
(HS). Without this technical
work, it would be difficult
to compare members’ tariff
obligations with the tariffs
they apply in practice. The
HS allows countries to
classify traded goods on
a common basis.

Trade concerns
WTO members raised 16 trade concerns related
to issues such as internal taxation, applied tariffs,
procedures to modify schedules of commitments
and the introduction of prohibitions and restrictions.
On internal taxation, the European Union
questioned Angola’s consumption tax, which it
said discriminated against imports. The EU and
Switzerland again expressed concern that the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s excise tax on imports
of energy drinks and carbonated soft drinks is
less favourable than the one applied to domestic
products. The EU, the United States
and Switzerland considered that the Kingdom
of Bahrain, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates are applying a discriminatory
selective tax on certain imported products.
On tariff treatment, the EU, Japan, Chinese
Taipei and the US considered that China’s tariffs
on certain integrated circuits exceed its bound
duties. Canada, China, the EU, Japan, Norway,
Chinese Taipei and the US considered that India
is applying customs duties on telecommunications
and other products in excess of its bound duties.
The EU and Switzerland raised Oman’s mostfavoured nation duties on cigarettes.
On the procedures to change schedules of
commitments, the Dominican Republic expressed
concern over the modification of Haiti’s schedule
under Article XXVIII of the General Agreement
on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Russia raised the
non-recognition of rights in the context of the
enlargement of the EU to include Croatia. Russia
also expressed concern over the renegotiation of
the EU’s tariff rate quotas to take account of the
United Kingdom’s decision to leave the EU as well
as the establishment of a separate schedule for
the United Kingdom. On 24 July, WTO members
received the United Kingdom’s draft schedule
setting out its market access commitments for
goods once the United Kingdom leaves the
European Union.

64

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

WTO members raised several concerns about
restrictions and prohibitions. Australia, Canada,
the EU and the US questioned India’s quantitative
restrictions on certain pulses. China considered
that Australia is applying discriminatory market
access prohibitions on 5G equipment and that
the US Federal Communications Commission
is considering a prohibitive proposal on
communications equipment or services. Russia
raised Croatia’s regulation on the import and sale
of certain oil products. The EU raised Russia’s
quantitative restrictions on birch logs.

Harmonized System
The Committee continued its work to ensure that
WTO members’ schedules of commitments reflect
the latest amendments introduced by the World
Customs Organization to the Harmonized System
(HS) nomenclature.
The amendments are typically referred to by the
year in which they enter into force and include
HS96, HS2002, HS2007, HS2012 and HS2017.
The “transposition” work at the WTO seeks
to ensure that WTO members’ schedules are
up to date and that their tariff obligations are
transparent, thereby allowing a comparison
of a member’s applied tariff regime with its
WTO obligations.
The HS96, HS2002 and HS2007 exercises have
been nearly concluded for all members and the
Committee continued making good progress on
the HS2012 transposition, where the procedures
have been concluded for 87 WTO members.
The WTO Secretariat issued an update of its
“Situation of Schedules of WTO Members”,
which lists all the legal instruments relating to
each member’s schedule of commitments. It also
prepared an updated report on renegotiations
under GATT Article XXVIII on the modification
of members’ schedules, which seeks to enhance
transparency and facilitate monitoring of the status
of such negotiations.

Market access
www.wto.org/marketaccess

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Databases

Quantitative restrictions

The WTO Secretariat reported on the Integrated
Data Base (IDB), which provides information on
applied tariffs and import data as notified by WTO
members, and the Consolidated Tariff Schedules
(CTS) database, which compiles information
on the legal obligations reflected in members’
schedules of commitments.

The Committee received 26 notifications of
quantitative restrictions – prohibitions and
other restrictions that do not take the form
of a tariff or a tax, which are allowed in some
circumstances – from 22 WTO members,
more than twice the number received in 2017.
WTO members are obliged to provide detailed
information on the prohibitions and restrictions
they maintain, including their justification under
WTO rules. In April 2018, the Committee held
a capacity-building workshop on the notification
of quantitative restrictions.

IDB data coverage has significantly improved in
recent years but important gaps remain. Since
the decision by the General Council to establish
the IDB dates back more than 20 years, the
Committee agreed to launch informal discussions
on possible ways to improve it.

Customs duties on
telecoms products
were among the
issues raised by
WTO members.

5

Market access
www.wto.org/marketaccess

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

65

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Ag r ic u lt u re
•	 The Committee continued to express concern over WTO members’ slow pace
of notifications of trade measures.
•	 Members raised 242 questions about 104 notifications.
•	 For the first time, counter-notifications were submitted – notifications a member
considers ought to have been made by another.
•	 By the end of 2018, eight members (out of 16) had eliminated their export subsidy
entitlements under the Nairobi decision.
•	 The WTO Secretariat organized a workshop on notification requirements and
a symposium on the agriculture landscape.

Background
on agriculture
The Agreement on
Agriculture aims to reform
trade and make WTO
members’ policies more
market-oriented. The
rules and commitments
apply to market access,
domestic support and
export competition as well
as export restrictions and
prohibitions. The Committee
on Agriculture oversees
the implementation of the
Agreement. The Committee
also monitors follow-up to
the Marrakesh ministerial
decision regarding net
food-importing developing
countries, which sets out
objectives on the provision
of food aid and other
assistance.

The Committee on Agriculture reviewed 104
notifications of WTO members’ agricultural trade
measures, more than double the previous year’s
45, and members raised 242 questions (199 in
2017). The majority of these questions (around
80 per cent) concerned members’ notified
domestic support (subsidy) measures, including
notifications by Egypt, India, the European Union
and the United States. Figure 1 gives a snapshot
of the questions on notifications by subject area.

Figure 1: Questions on notifications raised
in the Committee on Agriculture in 2018,
by subject area
5%
15.3%

PIE CHART

79.8%

Export subsidies
Market access
Domestic support

66

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Twenty-eight questions were raised concerning
a lack of notifications from China, Egypt, Ghana,
India, Indonesia, Kenya, the Republic of Korea,
Malaysia, Mauritius, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Tanzania, Thailand, Turkey and Ukraine.
For the first time, three counter-notifications
were submitted under a rule allowing a member
to bring to the Committee’s attention any
measures it considers ought to have been
notified by another member. The United States
and Australia submitted counter notifications on
market price support measures adopted by India
regarding rice, wheat, cotton and sugarcane.
The review of WTO members’ progress in
implementing their subsidy and market access
commitments is largely based on notified
information. Article 18.6 of the Agreement on
Agriculture allows members to raise other matters
relevant to the implementation of commitments
at any time. In 2018, 13 members posed 189
questions concerning 54 measures or policies,
the highest number in one year.
Figure 2 shows the proportion of questions
addressed to developed and developing countries.
Out of the 426 questions raised in 2018 (including
questions on individual notifications and under
Article 18.6), 145 were directed to developing
countries. Developing countries continued to be
less active than developed countries in posing
questions, asking 20 per cent of the questions
raised in 2018.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

WTO members voiced specific concerns about
compliance with annual notification obligations,
particularly in domestic support and export
subsidies. For the period 1995-2016, 35 per
cent of domestic support notifications (798
notifications) and 32 per cent of export subsidies
notifications (838 notifications) remained
outstanding as of 15 November 2018.

Figure 2: Questions addressed to
developed and developing countries,
2005-18
2005 51 36 87
2006

77

2007

33 110

95

66

161

2008 40 14 54
2009

97
71

2010
2011

102

173

118

189

81

2012

151

228

57

2016
2017

141

2018

143

Export competition

2 321

212

Progress was made in 2018 in the implementation
of the 2015 Nairobi ministerial decision to
eliminate export subsidies and to set disciplines
on export measures with equivalent effect.

1 270

112

0

4 294

4 207

91

2015

4 311

209

2013 52
2014

Departing Committee Chair Mr Alf Vederhus
(Norway) and the incoming Chair Ms Débora
Cumes (Guatemala) both called for increased
efforts by members to get up to date with
notification obligations. Figure 3 shows the number
of annual agriculture notifications submitted to the
Committee compared with the total number of
years covered by those notifications.

36 133

224

7 343

165

17 323
281

At the end of 2018, half of the 16 WTO members
with export subsidies reduction entitlements at the
time of the adoption of the decision in 2015 had
amended their schedules of commitments and two
had circulated draft revised schedules to members
for their consideration. Those who have amended
their schedules are Australia, Colombia, Israel,
Norway, South Africa, Switzerland, the United
States and Uruguay.

2 426

50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450

Developing countries
Developed countries
LDCs

In June, the Committee held its annual
dedicated discussion on export competition,
which aims to enhance transparency and
improve monitoring. Export competition
covers export subsidies, export credits, export
credit guarantees or insurance programmes,
international food aid and agricultural exporting
state trading enterprises (see page 40).

150

198

260

265

316

324
123

178

242
178
109

156

128

134

230
154

189

161
104

83

206

165

201

220

100

89

107

119

120

236

167
201
1999

137

167
206
1998

164

175
178

131
133

200
150

1997

250

167

300

241

350

365

321

400

324

402

450

441

Figure 3: Number of regular notifications and total years reported (1995 to November 2018)

Oct
2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1996

0

1995 5
5

50

Developing countries
Developed countries

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

67

5

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Information exchange
The WTO organized a two-day symposium
on trends in global agriculture. Participants
exchanged ideas on four themes: the economic
significance of agricultural trade; evolving trading
patterns in agricultural products; products, prices
and market participation; and the agricultural
trade policy landscape. Speakers noted that
the landscape has dramatically evolved and
developing countries are playing an increasingly
important role in world markets.
The UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
presented “The State of Agricultural Commodity
Markets 2018: Agricultural Trade, Climate Change
and Food Security”, which shows how trade
policies can ensure food security and the impact
of climate change.

Notification workshops

The discussions were based on a WTO
Secretariat background document compiling
information provided by WTO members on their
export competition policies. The Cairns Group
of farm goods exporters circulated a paper
considering the alignment of members’ reported
policies with the disciplines agreed in the
Nairobi decision.
WTO members adopted by consensus the
report of the first triennial review of the decision.
The report, adopted in June, noted that several
members consider the Nairobi outcome on
export competition “unfinished business” and
support enhancing disciplines in other areas
of export competition.

Other ministerial decisions
Members continued their review of the Bali
ministerial decision on tariff rate quotas (TRQs).
Exchanges focused on addressing the causes
of chronic TRQ underfill and how to share best
practices to improve the efficiency and quality
of notifications. Duties inside a quota are usually
lower, often significantly lower, than those applied
outside the quota. Unfilled quotas mean that
exporters miss out.

The annual agriculture notification workshop
provided training to 25 capital-based officials
from developing countries. It covered notification
requirements and information on the Agreement
on Agriculture and the work of the Committee.
Participants were introduced to the new online
notifications system, which will improve the
efficiency of processing information and the
consistency of data reported. In addition, the
system captures the data in a searchable format.

Transparency tools
The Committee’s work on monitoring and
transparency benefits from the Agriculture
Information Management System. This system
provides public access to agriculture-related
information notified by WTO members and to
questions and responses in the Committee’s
review process. It is expected that, as of 2019,
WTO members will be able to submit their
agriculture notifications via this system, which
will make the information immediately available
for public consultation.

Ministers declared in Bali that WTO members
should notify the Committee of the extent to which
their TRQs are being filled. Chair Ms Débora
Cumes reminded members of the end-December
2019 deadline, when the General Council must
finalize its recommendations on the review.

68

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

S a n ita r y a nd phy to s a n ita r y mea s u re s
•	 The Committee initiated a new review of the working of the SPS Agreement, which seeks to
strike a balance between the right of WTO members to protect health and the need to allow
the smooth flow of goods across international borders.
•	 WTO members submitted 13 specific proposals for discussion in the review, including
adaptation of SPS measures to regional conditions, transparency and national coordination
among SPS agencies.
•	 WTO members’ notifications of SPS measures, which facilitate transparency, rose to
1,631 from 1,480 in 2017, with developing countries accounting for a record 72 per cent.

Background
on sanitary and
phytosanitary
measures
The Agreement on the
Application of Sanitary
and Phytosanitary (SPS)
Measures establishes the
rights and obligations of
WTO members regarding
measures taken to ensure
food safety, protect human
health from plant or animalspread diseases, protect
plant and animal health
from pests and diseases,
or prevent other damage
from pests. Governments
must ensure that their SPS
measures are necessary for
health protection and based
on scientific principles.

Launch of the fifth review
In 2018, the Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS)
Committee launched the fifth review of the
operation and implementation of the SPS
Agreement. WTO members have the opportunity
to identify issues to be addressed in the review
and to submit specific proposals. The report of
the previous review was adopted in 2017. The fifth
review is scheduled to conclude in March 2020.
The SPS Agreement requires the Committee to
carry out a review at least once every four years.
The Committee adopted the “Catalogue of
Instruments” available to WTO members to
manage SPS issues. Members may use the
catalogue if they seek information or wish to initiate
consultations in order to resolve trade frictions on
food safety, animal and plant health issues.

Thematic areas of work
Under the review, 13 proposals were submitted by
29 WTO members, covering a wide array of topics.
These included: recognition of equivalence of other
countries’ SPS measures so long as an equivalent
level of protection is provided; adaptation of SPS
measures to regional conditions, including pest or
disease-free areas; transparency and notifications
under the SPS vs. the Technical Barriers to Trade
(TBT) Agreement; national coordination among
SPS agencies, and trade issues related
to restrictions on the level of pesticides.
Other areas covered by the proposals were: the
role of the three standard-setting bodies (Codex,
the International Plant Protection Convention
and the World Organisation for Animal Health)
in addressing specific trade concerns; thirdparty assurance systems; risk assessment and
appropriate levels of protection; and efforts to
address fall armyworm infestation (an insect
native to tropical and subtropical regions of the
Americas, which in its larva stage can cause
significant damage to crops).

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps

The Committee held a thematic session on pestfree areas in February. The purpose was to provide
an opportunity for WTO members to increase
their awareness of International Plant Protection
Convention standards on pest-free areas and to
share experiences about the challenges and the
benefits of implementing pest-free areas.
The SPS Agreement requires governments to
recognize regions within or straddling other
countries as being safe sources (disease or pestfree or with low incidence) for imports of food and
animal and plant products. Exporting countries
want to avoid import restrictions on products from
their entire territories when outbreaks are confined
to a region.
The European Union submitted a proposal on
regionalization (pest and disease-free areas)
which seeks to ensure that any further work of the
SPS Committee on this topic would build on the
ongoing work of the international standard-setting
bodies and on WTO jurisprudence.
A workshop was held in July to explore ways to
expedite and simplify border procedures while
ensuring that traded products do not present
food safety, animal or plant health risks. The
workshop aimed at expanding WTO members’
understanding of the relevant provisions and
jurisprudence on SPS control, inspection and
approval procedures, providing guidance from
various standard-setting bodies and sharing
regional and national experiences. The workshop
finished with a roundtable in which representatives
from various organizations discussed their trade
facilitation capacity-building programmes.
As part of the fifth review, the Committee held
in October the first of a two-part thematic
session on equivalence. Discussions included
the challenges of having a common definition of
equivalence, the lack of consistency in wording
across organizations, and the link between

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

69

5

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
recognition of disease-free areas and equivalence
determinations. The second session in March
2019 focused on WTO members’ experiences
with the implementation of equivalence.

Monitoring international
harmonization
The SPS Agreement encourages governments
to establish national SPS measures consistent
with international standards, guidelines and
recommendations. This process is often referred
to as “harmonization” and the SPS Committee has
developed a procedure to monitor the process.
Three new issues were raised in March and July
2018. The United States drew members’ attention
to the Codex Committee on Food Additives
(CCFA), where 1,200 food additive provisions
were being blocked by certain Codex members,
which it said hampered the CCFA’s ability to
establish international standards for food additives.
Indonesia raised the question of risk management
related to the global movement in plant seeds and
called for an international standard on pest risk
analysis. The other new issue raised concerned
African swine fever restrictions not consistent
with the OIE international standard.
At the October meeting, the Committee
considered non-science factors in Codex
standards and the use of Codex definitions
for milk and milk products.

Figure 4: Number of SPS notifications per
year, 2000-18
2000 349 64 55 468
2001

411 143 222 776

2002

525 189 96 810

2003

626

162 68 856

504

2004
2005

299 118 921

596 189 70 855

2006

812

2007

766

2008

786

2009

242 101 1,155
334 94 1,194
371 106 1,263

668

272

76 1,016

2010

980

344

2011

915

368 105 1,388

2012

787

2013

858

351

1,055

2015

1,166

2016

937

2017

924

467
401
356 99

20

0

40

0

111 1,633
114 1,681
1,392

371 185 1,480

1,202
0

80 1,218

356 84 1,298

2014

2018

84 1,408

60

0

309 120 1,631
80

0 1,00 1,20 1,40 1,60 1,80
0
0
0
0
0

Regular notifications
Addenda/corrigenda
Emergency notifications

Import restrictions
on fruit were among
the trade concerns
raised by WTO
members.

70

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Specific trade concerns
Many previously raised concerns continued to
be discussed during 2018. These discussions
offer members the chance to find solutions to
trade concerns and avoid formal disputes. WTO
members raised 13 new specific trade concerns
(STCs) covering import restrictions on products
ranging from poultry to pears, to policies
on pesticides.
Two trade concerns were reported to have
been resolved in 2018. One related to Mexico’s
measures on imports of hibiscus flowers and
the other to China’s import conditions related to
phthalates (chemicals used in plastics) in spirits
and wine. Of the 447 STCs considered by the
SPS Committee since 1995, 200 have been
reported as resolved or partially resolved.
A discussion paper was presented in December
which proposes to strengthen the procedures
to raise and discuss STCs, to provide clear
procedures for the involvement of third parties and
mediators, to make these procedures available in
all WTO bodies and to coordinate information on
STCs, including special joint sessions with the
TBT Committee for cross-cutting STCs.

Figure 5: Share of SPS notifications
submitted by developing countries,
2000-18
0

3
2
4
% 0% 0% 0% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90%

10

468

2000

121
776

2001

275
810

2002

382
856

2003

302
921

2004

332
855

2005

415
1,155

2006

552
1,194

2007

593
1,263

2008

735
1,016

2009

692

Notifications
Notifications inform trading partners of looming
changes in an importing member’s requirements
and – unless there is an urgent health protection
issue – provide a period during which trading
partners can comment on them before they
enter into force. When there is an urgent health
problem, members submit an emergency
notification immediately upon the regulation’s
entry into force.
The Committee received 1,631 notifications
of new or changed food safety, animal or plant
health regulations affecting international trade.
Of these, 1,202 were regular notifications
(up from 924 in 2017) and 120 were emergency
notifications (down from 185 in 2017) (see Figure
4). Developing countries accounted for a record
72 per cent of all SPS notifications, up from
70 per cent in 2017 (see Figure 5). Two members
submitted notifications for the first time – Liberia
and Montenegro.

1,408

2010

920
1,388

2011

864
1,218

2012

683
1,298

2013

782

5

1,633

2014

1,023
1,681

2015

1,180
1,392

2016

865
1,480

2017

1,048
1,631

2018

1,179
0

20

0

40

0

60

0

80

0 1,00 1,20 1,40 1,60 1,80
0
0
0
0
0

Total
Developing
% developing (incl LDCs)

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

71

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Te c h n ic al ba r r ie r s to t rade
•	 The Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee adopted a three-year work plan,
including 40 recommendations in areas from transparency to labelling aimed
at reducing obstacles to trade and improving implementation of the TBT Agreement.
•	 Members discussed 184 specific trade concerns, continuing the upward trend.
•	 The TBT Committee welcomed a new “best practice” guide for national TBT enquiry points.
•	 In 2018, WTO members continued to improve implementation of notification obligations
– over 3,000 notifications of new or changed TBT measures were submitted by 86
members, both all-time highs – underlying their commitment to transparency.

Background
on technical
barriers to trade
The Technical Barriers to
Trade (TBT) Agreement aims
to ensure that regulations,
standards, testing and
certification procedures
followed by WTO members
do not create unnecessary
obstacles to trade. The
number of regulations
adopted by WTO members
has continued to grow in
response to consumers’
demands for safe, highquality products, the
protection of health and the
need to curb pollution and
environmental degradation.

2019-2021 work plan
The TBT Committee concluded its 8 triennial
review and adopted a new roadmap with
40 recommendations for work over the next
three years. The work plan covers: conformity
assessment procedures (testing, inspection
and certification), transparency, standards,
marking and labelling, technical assistance,
good regulatory practice, and some adjustments
to the way in which debates in the Committee
are conducted.
th

The review was based on a large number of
proposals from WTO members and discussions
at nine informal meetings. Key transparency
decisions include recommendations for members
to notify final TBT regulations when adopted, to
make it easier to access these regulations online
and to improve access to national websites that
make available all adopted final regulations.
Another important outcome was a mandate
for the Committee to develop guidelines
on the choice and design of appropriate
and proportionate conformity assessment
procedures. WTO rules allow members to
assess whether products meet their consumer
safety, health and environmental requirements.
But these requirements must not restrict
trade unnecessarily or discriminate against
other members.
The “TBT Enquiry Point Guide – Making
Transparency Work” was launched at the
conclusion of the triennial review. The guide
– which draws from a survey of members’
practices – compiles practical information on
how enquiry points are performing. Each WTO
member is obliged to establish an enquiry point
to answer questions on its implementation of
TBT transparency obligations. The new tool
includes models for coordinating with domestic
stakeholders and tips on how to complete
TBT notifications.

72

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Figure 6: Specific trade concerns raised in
the TBT Committee, 1995 to 2018
1995

4

1996 64 10
1997 116 17
1998 1312 25
1999 512 17
2000 13

32

45

2001 15 20 35
2002 20

34

54

2003 15 22 37
2004 14

35

49

2005 12 20 32
2006 24
2007

27

2008

32

2009

41

65

51

78
74

46

2010

106
85

29

88

117

2011

43

107

2012

35

124

2013

42

88

2014

47

131

101

150
159
130
148

2015

37

124

2016

31

142

2017

27

155

179

2018 22

162

184

0

161
173

20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200

New concerns
Previous concerns

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Specific trade concerns (STCs)
The Committee discussed 184 specific trade
concerns regarding draft or adopted TBT
measures, more than in any year since 1995,
including 22 new concerns (see Figure 6).
Since 2014, the number of new concerns per
year has fallen by 53 per cent while the number
of previously raised concerns has increased by
60 per cent. Members see the Committee as
an effective forum for raising trade issues and
for seeking solutions.

New concerns
covered a wide
range of product
regulations,
including labelling.

The new concerns covered a wide range of
product regulations, including those dealing with:
cybersecurity; information and communications
technology products; environmental protection
(e.g. on solid waste, use of biofuels, energy
conservation); description and labelling of various
products (e.g. milk, food, clothes, tobacco,
alcohol); pharmaceuticals; chemical substances
and mixtures; halal requirements for poultry parts
and offal; hazardous substances in electronic
and electrical devices; and cosmetic and
hygiene products.
Thirteen of the 22 new concerns were raised
by developing countries (five independently and
eight in conjunction with developed countries –
see Figure 7).
WTO members agreed to apply new procedures
for raising specific trade concerns, on a trial basis,
giving members more time to engage with each
other and domestic stakeholders in advance
of meetings.

Figure 7: New specific trade concerns
raised by developed and developing
countries, 1995 to 2018
1995 4 4
6

1996

6

1997

8

12 11

1998

9

1 3 13

1999 2 3 5
7

2000

3 3 13
13

2001

11 15

17

2002

21 20

2003

9

3 3 15

2004

10

2 2 14

2005

8

4 12

12

2006

7

5

20

2007

5 2 27

16

2008

24

12

4 32

26

2009
16

2010

12
6

7

25

2011
7

2012

9

9

12

10

2017

9

13

5

2018

10
5

4

8

40
12

14

2016

0

7

23

14

2015

43

35

14

12

2014

8

20

19

46

29
10

8

2013

8

47

37
31

5

27

22

10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50

Developed members
Both developed and developing members
Developing members

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

73

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Notifications
WTO members submitted a record 3,065
notifications of new (or changed) draft measures
(see Figure 8), further evidence of transparency,
compared with 2,587 in 2017.
A greater number of WTO members submitted
notifications in 2018, with 86 members submitting
at least one notification during the year. Members
from Africa were some of the most active in 2018.
Uganda submitted the most notifications of any
member while Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania and
Egypt were among the top ten notifying members.
Overall, notifications from African members
increased almost sixfold between 2014 and
2018, jumping from 129 to 714.
Most notifications were submitted through the
WTO’s online portal, a system which enables
the WTO Secretariat to publish notifications
within two days of receipt. This portal also allows
members to easily track the status of submitted
notifications and facilitates the preparation of
notifications via templates.

ePing
ePing (www.epingalert.com), the notification alert
system for TBT and sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) measures (see page 69), enables swift
access to regulatory information and facilitates
dialogue between the public and private sector in
addressing potential trade problems. The WTO,
the International Trade Centre (ITC) and the UN
Department of Economic and Social Affairs have
continued their collaboration in enhancing the
system. Since its launch in November 2016, over
5,700 users from 169 countries have registered
on ePing, almost double the number of users
registered at the end of 2017.

Figure 8: TBT notifications 1995 to 2018
1995 364 19 3 2 388
460

1996

35 5 1 501

795

1997

38 9 5 847

1998

650

27 4 681

1999

670

12 12 3 697

2000

608

12 13 633

2001

541

5 22 6 574

2002

586

12 26 624

795

2003

49 51 2 897

2004

637

55 29 3 724

2005

765 107 23 2 897

2006

870

127 30 5 1,032

2007

1,028

172 18 11 1,229

1,248

2008

219 43 13 1,523

2009

1,487

2010

1,412

365
396

34 7 1,893
42 19 1,869

Capacity building

2011

In 2018, a record number of 44 training activities
were organized by the WTO Secretariat. These
included one Geneva based course, four regional
workshops and 15 national workshops. The activities
were designed to help participants expand their
understanding of the TBT Agreement, discuss
implementation challenges and learn more about
the work of the TBT Committee.

2012

1,552

577

2013

1,599

469

2014

1,528

622

Regulatory cooperation
Chile organized a TBT Committee side event in
March on international regulatory cooperation,
the range of approaches and mechanisms used
by countries to promote cooperation in the design,
monitoring or enforcement of regulation. It aims at
limiting costs arising from divergences in product
regulations between countries while respecting
differences in regulatory objectives.

74

The side event helped raise awareness of how
international regulatory cooperation promotes
effective implementation of the TBT Agreement.
“More cooperation between countries can reduce
trade costs without impinging on core aspects
such as quality and safety,” Deputy DirectorGeneral Alan Wolff told the event. Debates in
the Committee “make it easier for members to
find solutions to regulatory differences that are
impeding trade”. The Committee has “quite a good
record of dispute avoidance”, DDG Wolff added.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

1,216

469

1,421

2015
2016

1,645

2017

1,774

73 15 1,773

480

48 19 2,196
43 29 2,140
56 34 2,240
46 30 1,977

583 70 34 2,332
725

2,085

2018
0

500

1000

1500

2000

53 28 2,580
841

87 52 3,065

2500

3000

New notifications
Addenda
Corrigenda
Revisions

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

3500

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Su b s id ie s a nd c ou nte r vai l i ng mea s u re s
•	 The Committee reviewed WTO members’ notifications of subsidies and countervailing
duty legislation.
•	 The Committee chairs alerted members to “chronic” low compliance with notification
obligation on subsidies.
•	 The Committee continued consideration of a US proposal on subsidy programmes
not included in WTO members’ notifications.

Background
on subsidies
and countervailing
measures
The Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures
(SCM) Agreement regulates
WTO members’ use of
subsidies and countervailing
measures on subsidized
imports of a product found
to be injuring domestic
producers of that product.
The SCM Committee serves
as a forum for members to
discuss the implementation
of the SCM Agreement and
any matters arising from this.

In 2018, the Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
(SCM) Committee reviewed WTO members’
notifications of specific subsidies, notifications of
countervailing duty legislation, semi‑annual reports
of countervailing actions and ad hoc notifications of
preliminary and final countervailing measures taken.
At the spring meeting, Committee Chair Ms Ieva
Baršauskaitê of Lithuania spoke of the “chronic”
low compliance with the fundamental transparency
obligation to notify subsidies, saying it constitutes
a serious problem for the proper functioning of
the SCM Agreement. Her successor, Luis
Fernandez of Costa Rica, returned to the theme
in the autumn.
The Committee continued the review of 2017 new
and full subsidy notifications. It continued to discuss
ways to improve the timeliness and completeness
of notifications and other information flows on
trade measures. The Committee again considered
proposals by the United States on procedures for
questions and answers for subsidy programmes
not included in WTO members’ notifications. It also
discussed Australia’s proposal regarding additional
information to be included in a WTO Secretariat
compendium on subsidy notifications.
Both chairs urged developing countries that had
not yet made final notifications of the elimination of
their export subsidy programmes to do so. Nineteen
developing countries had been given a final two-year
extension, to the end of 2015, for the elimination of
such programmes, with final notifications of removal

due by end-June 2016. The Committee reviewed
three such notifications in 2018, which left five
notifications outstanding. The Committee agreed
to continue to discuss this issue in 2019.
Least-developed countries and developing
countries with a per capita gross national income
below US$ 1,000 a year, calculated in constant
1990 dollars, are exempt from the export subsidy
prohibition. Based on World Bank calculations,
nine WTO members, down from 12 the previous
year, were still in the latter category in 2018.
The Committee reviewed notifications of
countervailing initiations (see Figure 9). As of
30 June 2018, there were 173 notified measures
(definitive duties and undertakings) in force,
up from 154 the year before.
On fisheries subsidies, nine WTO members
requested that the Committee discuss the
decision taken by ministers at the 11th Ministerial
Conference in December 2017 recommitting
members to fulfil their existing transparency
obligations in respect of fisheries subsidies.

5

The Committee considered requests for
information from the European Union and the
United States to China regarding potential steel
subsidies. It returned to the issue of whether
subsidies contribute to overcapacity in sectors
such as steel and aluminium. Members continued
to discuss the potential role the Committee could
play. China said the Committee was not the proper
forum to discuss the issue of overcapacity.

Figure 9: Countervailing initiations by reporting WTO member, 1 January 1995 to end-June 2018
45
41

41
33

Subsidies and countervailing measures
www.wto.org/scm

11

34

33

23

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Jun
2018

2017

2016

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

9

2009

2007

8

2006

6
2005

8

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

7
1996

1995

15
9

25

31

16

2008

18

16

2004

25

10

28

27

2015

*Figure 9 covers
initiations up to the
end of June 2018.
Data for the second
half of 2018 are not
yet available.

75

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

A nt i- du mpi ng p rac t ic e s
•	 WTO members initiated 122 new anti-dumping investigations from January to June
2018, down from 139 in the same period in 2017.
•	 India and the United States were the leading initiators, accounting for 40 per cent
of the total.
•	 Investigations involving steel products continued to dominate discussions
in the Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices.

Background
on antidumping
practices
WTO members can apply
anti-dumping measures on
imports of a product where
the exporting company
exports the product at a
price lower than the price
it normally charges in
its home market and the
dumped imports cause or
threaten to cause injury
to the domestic industry.
The Committee on AntiDumping Practices provides
WTO members with the
opportunity to discuss any
matters relating to the AntiDumping Agreement.

In the first six months of 2018, India initiated 28
new anti-dumping investigations and the United
States 22, down from 34 each in the same period
of the previous year.
Other frequent users of anti-dumping
investigations, including Australia, China,
Canada, the European Union and the Republic
of Korea, also initiated fewer investigations than
in 2017. However, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Egypt,
New Zealand, Chinese Taipei and the Eurasian
Economic Union initiated more investigations.
After India and the United States, the top initiators
in 2018 were Argentina (14), Australia (11) and
China (eight) (see Figure 10).

Figure 10: Anti-dumping investigations by
reporting WTO member, 1 January 2018 to
end-June 2018
India

28

United States

22

Argentina

14

Australia

11

China

8

Brazil

7

Turkey

6

Canada

5

Russian Federation

5

Chile

2

Colombia

2

European Union

2

Republic of Korea

2

New Zealand

2

Chinese Taipei

2

Ukraine

2

Egypt

1

Mexico

1
0

10

20

*Figure 10 covers initiations up to the end of June 2018.
Data for the second half of 2018 are not yet available.

Steel products
accounted for a
quarter of new
investigations in the
first half of 2018.

76

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Anti-dumping practices
www.wto.org/ad

30

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Investigations involving steel products continued
to dominate discussions in the Committee on AntiDumping Practices. These products accounted
for more than a quarter of all new investigations
in the first six months of 2018. Several members
asserted a link between overcapacity in the steel
sector and high anti-dumping activity.
At its spring and autumn meetings, the Committee
reviewed semi-annual reports for the second
half of 2017 submitted by 42 WTO members
and semi-annual reports for the first half of 2018
submitted by 39 members.
At the October meeting, Committee Chair Ms
Karine Mahjoubi Erikstein of Norway noted that
a “significant number” of WTO members failed
to submit semi-annual reports for the first half
of 2018.
Figure 11: Anti-dumping investigations
by year, 1 January 1995 to end-June 2018
1995

157

1996

226

1997

247

1998

264

1999

357

2000

296

2001

372

2002

The Committee also reviewed ad hoc notifications
of preliminary and final actions taken by 26 and
25 WTO members at the spring and autumn
meetings, respectively. As of 30 June 2018,
45 members had notified the WTO of 1,854
anti-dumping measures (definitive duties and
undertakings) in force, up from 1,675 the
previous year.
The Committee reviewed new notifications of
legislation submitted by Afghanistan, Australia,
Brazil, Cambodia, Canada, China, the European
Union, Liberia, Japan and Chinese Taipei.
The Working Group on Implementation, which
serves as a forum for the exchange of information
on WTO members’ practices, held two meetings
in 2018. Among the issues discussed were: the
treatment of certain expenses in determining
the “normal” value and the export price;
methodologies to determine the likelihood of
continuation or recurrence of dumping and injury
in sunset reviews; and the institutional structure
of investigating authorities. Some WTO members
made presentations or provided papers describing
their practices while others contributed to the
discussions with questions or comments.
In addition, two meetings of the Informal Group
on Anti-Circumvention were held in 2018. During
those meetings, India and Canada presented their
anti-circumvention proceedings and responded
to questions posed and comments made by other
WTO members.

311

2003

234

2004

221

2005

198

2006

203

2007

5

165

2008

218

2009

217

2010

173

2011

165

2012

208

2013

287

2014

236

2015

229

2016

298

2017

249

30 Jun
2018

122
0

100

200

300

400

* Figure 11 covers initiations up to the end of June 2018.
Data for the second half of 2018 are not yet available.

Anti-dumping practices
www.wto.org/ad

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

77

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

C u s tom s valuat ion
•	 The Committee received no new notifications of national legislation; the overall
record of notifications remains poor.
•	 Four specific trade concerns were raised.
•	 The Committee agreed to hold an experience-sharing workshop to assist
least-developed countries in implementing the Customs Valuation Agreement.

Background
on customs valuation
The value of a good
plays a critical role in the
calculation of ad valorem
duties, which are the most
common type of duties
applied. The WTO’s
Agreement on Customs
Valuation seeks to establish
a fair, uniform and neutral
system for the valuation
of goods for customs
purposes, precluding the
use of arbitrary or fictitious
values. The Committee
on Customs Valuation
manages this Agreement as
well as the Agreement on
Pre-shipment Inspection.

The Committee on Customs Valuation continued
reviewing implementation and administration of
the Customs Valuation Agreement, which aims for
a fair, uniform and neutral system for the valuation
of goods for customs purposes. For importers,
the process of estimating the value of a product
at customs presents problems that can be just as
serious as the actual duty rate charged.
No new notifications of national legislation were
received. The low level of notifications continues
to hamper the Committee’s work. The total number
of WTO members that had notified their national
legislation remained at 98, or 72 per cent, and 66
members had provided responses to the checklist
of issues related to their legislation, a compliance
rate of 49 per cent.
The Chair of the Committee, Mr Yuichiro Okumura
(Japan), wrote to a number of WTO members to
encourage them to provide their responses to
questions raised in the Committee, with some
going back almost nine years.
Uruguay’s long-standing proposal to amend
the Committee’s 30-year-old “Decision on the
Valuation of Carrier Media Bearing Software
for Data Processing Equipment” to take
account of software on newer types of media

78

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

carriers, such as USB keys, remained on
the agenda, without reaching consensus.
Four specific trade concerns were raised.
Three of them – Armenia’s reference price
system in connection with the valuation of
goods; Pakistan’s determination of customs
values of paper; and Oman’s customs valuation
of cigarettes and introduction of a selective tax
– remained on the agenda. One new concern
was raised related to Tajikistan’s alleged use
of reference pricing in customs valuation.
The Committee held an information-sharing
workshop in February 2019 to assist
least-developed countries in addressing
implementation challenges they face with
the Customs Valuation Agreement.

Pre-shipment inspection
The key issues continued to be the status of
notifications of pre-shipment measures and
the concern of some WTO members that not
all measures are being notified. In 2018, three
members – Afghanistan, Angola and Brazil
– notified the Committee that they have no
laws or regulations related to the Pre-shipment
Inspection Agreement.

Customs valuation
www.wto.org/customsvaluation

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Ru le s of or ig i n
•	 The Committee focused on the impact of non-preferential rules of origin on businesses
and international trade and an examination of preferential rules of origin that apply
to least-developed countries (LDCs).
•	 Some 23 per cent of members have yet to submit notifications of their practices
relating to non-preferential rules of origin.
•	 Most members have submitted their preferential rules of origin for LDCs but many
LDC exports do not receive the preferential treatment to which they are entitled.

Background
on rules of origin
Rules of origin are the criteria
used to determine the
country in which a product
is made. They are used in
the implementation of many
trade measures, including
trade preferences, customs
duties, labelling of country
of origin and the application
of anti-dumping measures.
The main objective of the
Agreement on Rules of
Origin is to harmonize the
rules that all WTO members
use to determine origin in
their non-preferential trade.
This work is conducted by
the Committee on Rules of
Origin. The Committee also
reviews the implementation
of the 2013 and 2015
ministerial decisions on
preferential rules of origin
for LDCs.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin

Non-preferential rules of origin
The Committee on Rules of Origin held two
information sessions on the impact of nonpreferential rules of origin on businesses and
international trade. The first session reviewed
the practice of WTO members in relation to
the certification of origin. The second identified
information gaps and transparency issues
related to non-preferential rules of origin and
origin procedures.
The sessions highlighted that the Committee
can only perform efficiently and promote best
practices if there is a wide understanding about
WTO members’ existing practices and originrelated requirements.
Non-preferential rules of origin are those which
apply in the absence of any trade preference
– that is, when trade is conducted on a mostfavoured-nation (MFN) basis. Some trade policy
measures, such as quotas, anti-dumping or “made
in” labels, may require a determination of the

country of origin and, therefore, the application
of non-preferential rules. Almost 50 WTO
members currently apply national rules of origin
for non-preferential purposes.
A mandate for negotiations on harmonized nonpreferential rules of origin was included in the
WTO’s Agreement on Rules of Origin but the
harmonization work programme has been stalled
since 2007. WTO members agreed in 2014 to
initiate a transparency and educational exercise
to hear different views and learn more about how
existing non-preferential rules of origin affect
businesses and international trade.
Switzerland reported to WTO members on talks
it has been holding on its initiative to facilitate
trade by removing barriers inherent in nonpreferential rules of origin. Sixteen members are
taking part in the discussions, which are currently
focused on improving transparency and
proposing standardized and strengthened
notification procedures.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

79

5

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The WTO Secretariat made a presentation on
transparency and notification obligations. It said
35.8 per cent of WTO members have notified that
they apply non-preferential rules of origin while
41.6 per cent do not and 22.6 per cent have not
submitted any notification. Under the Agreement
on Rules of Origin, all members must notify their
practices related to non-preferential rules of origin.

Preferential rules of origin
Ministerial decisions of 2013 and 2015 laid down
guidelines for making it easier for LDCs to qualify
for preferences and better utilize market access
opportunities. Improving the conditions attached
to trade preferences is part of Sustainable
Development Goal 17, which calls for preferential
rules of origin applied to LDC exports to be
“transparent and simple”.
The Committee focused on reviewing the
practices of preference-granting members on
the basis of standardized notifications by WTO
members. Almost all preference-granting members
have submitted their preferential rules of origin.
WTO members investigated the impact that
preferential origin requirements have on utilization.
In particular, they looked at how members use
the change of tariff classification criterion in
drafting “substantial transformation” rules of origin.

80

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

When a product is manufactured in two or more
countries, it qualifies as “made in” an LDC – and
thus for preferential access – when it undergoes
substantial transformation in the LDC. LDCs have
argued that such requirements are often overly
strict, disqualifying their products from receiving
trade preferences.
WTO members reviewed a Secretariat note
outlining that the under-utilization of trade
preferences can be very significant. Close to 50 per
cent of all LDC exports of fruits, vegetables, plants
and chemicals do not receive preferential treatment
despite being eligible. This reaches close to 80 per
cent for sugar and confectionery products.
LDCs paid tariffs on more than US$ 7 billion of
trade in 2016 that should have benefited from tariff
preferences. This could indicate that rules of origin
requirements are too demanding in a number of
cases. However, other factors not related to rules
of origin may also explain low utilization.
The International Trade Centre presented WTO
members with the new “Rules of origin facilitator”,
a gateway to rules of origin launched in June. The
gateway provides tariff and origin information at
the most detailed tariff-line product level. The
“facilitator” was developed in collaboration with
the WTO and the World Customs Organization.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

I mp or t l ic en s i ng
•	 The Committee reviewed 77 notifications from WTO members under the Agreement
on Import Licensing Procedures, up from 66 in 2017.
•	 A new WTO import licensing database was launched to consolidate information
on this issue.
•	 The Committee heard a number of specific trade concerns about import licensing
rules and procedures.

Background
on import licensing
The Agreement on Import
Licensing Procedures
establishes disciplines on
import licensing systems,
with the objective of ensuring
that the procedures applied
for granting import licenses
do not in themselves restrict
trade. It aims to simplify the
administrative requirements
necessary to obtain licenses
and to ensure fair and
transparent administration
of the procedures.

The Committee on Import Licensing reviewed
16 notifications from 10 WTO members regarding
publications and/or legislation on import licensing
procedures and 20 notifications from 10 members
on new import licensing procedures or changes in
these procedures. It also reviewed 41 notifications
from 33 members regarding responses to a
questionnaire on import licensing procedures.
As of October 2018, 15 WTO members had
not submitted any notification. In addition, 24
members had never submitted responses to the
annual questionnaire on licensing procedures.
WTO trade monitoring reports have identified
import licensing as one of the main traderestricting measures introduced by governments.
In 2018, Botswana submitted its first notification
to the Committee and provided a comprehensive
list of import licensing laws and regulations. The
Chair of the Committee, Ms Lorena Rivera Orjuela
(Colombia), welcomed this move and encouraged
others to improve their notification compliance.
The United States made statements on:
Indonesia’s import licensing regime for cellphones,
handheld computers and tablets; Indonesia’s
import requirements related to milk supply and
circulation; India’s import licensing requirements
for boric acid; Viet Nam’s import licensing for

Import licensing
www.wto.org/importlicensing

cyber security products; and China’s import
licensing on certain recoverable materials.
Australia made a statement on India’s import
requirements for certain types of beans and
pigeon peas. Australia, Canada and the
European Union made statements on India’s
import requirements on certain pulses.
The WTO Secretariat introduced the new WTO
import licensing database, established to improve
transparency, to consolidate all information on
import licensing and to provide a more userfriendly platform. It is based on notifications
submitted by WTO members under various
provisions of the Agreement on Import Licensing
Procedures. A gateway provides members with
direct access to import licensing laws, regulations
and products subject to licensing as well as
administrative procedures for each category
of products for WTO members.
In April 2018, representatives from 30 developing
countries took part in a workshop on import
licensing in Geneva. In addition, national
workshops were held in Paraguay and Egypt.
The WTO Secretariat presented an overview
of the Import Licensing Agreement in July to
familiarize WTO members with the Agreement’s
notification obligations.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

81

5

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

S afeg ua rd s
•	 WTO members imposed seven new measures, fewer than the ten imposed in 2017.
•	 New safeguard investigations doubled to 16 in 2018 compared with the previous year but
the number was below the recent peaks of 2012-15. Nearly half of the new investigations
involved steel or aluminium.

Background
on safeguards
WTO members may take
safeguard actions (impose
temporary additional
duties, quantitative
restrictions or other
measures on a product) to
protect a specific domestic
industry from an increase in
imports of the product that
is causing, or threatening
to cause, serious injury
to the industry. In these
circumstances, WTO
members have the right to
apply safeguard measures
on imports of the product
from all sources (but not
from a specific member or
group of members). The
Agreement on Safeguards
provides rules concerning
the investigation that
must be conducted as
well as the application of
safeguard measures.

The number of new investigations initiated during
2018 sharply rose for the first time in four years
(see Figure 12).
One investigation each was initiated by Canada,
Chile, Costa Rica, the European Union, the
member states of the Eurasian Economic Union
(EAEU – Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the
Kyrgyz Republic and the Russian Federation),
Morocco and South Africa, with two each by
Indonesia, the Philippines and Turkey and three
by Madagascar. The last time Canada initiated
a safeguard investigation was in 2005 and the
European Union in 2010. Madagascar initiated
safeguard investigations for the first time.
WTO members imposed seven new safeguard
measures, down from ten in 2017. Those
imposing final measures were India, Indonesia,
Gulf Cooperation Council member countries
(Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and
the United Arab Emirates), Ukraine, the United
States (two) and Viet Nam.
Figure 12: Safeguard investigations
by year (for all WTO members)
4

2010

20
11
12

2011
6

2012

24
8

2013

18
11

2014

23
11

2015

17
6

2016

11
10

2017

8
7

2018

16
0

5

10

15

20

25

Seven of the 16 investigations initiated in 2018
involved metals, specifically steel and aluminium,
but only one definitive measure introduced in 2018
related to the metals sector.
At Safeguard Committee meetings in the spring
and autumn, a number of WTO members
expressed concern over safeguard actions on
steel products. Most of the members taking these
actions referred to current global overcapacity
in steel and certain measures imposed by
other members.
Measures about which members expressed
concern included: EU measures on certain steel
products, an EAEU investigation on flat-rolled steel
products, and investigations notified by Turkey and
Canada on certain steel products.
At both meetings, several WTO members
expressed concern about measures on imports
of steel and aluminium taken by the United States
under Section 232 of the US Trade Expansion
Act of 1962, which refers to the protection of
essential security interests. Those members
consider these measures to be safeguards.
Some of these members said they had withdrawn
equivalent trade concessions pursuant to the
Safeguards Agreement.
The United States indicated that the measures
are not safeguards and that the countermeasures
are not authorized. Some of these members are
pursuing WTO dispute settlement concerning the
US measures and the United States is pursuing
dispute settlement on some of the measures that
have been applied.
The Committee also considered a request from
Thailand to review whether the concessions
suspended by Turkey in response to a Thai
safeguard measure on hot rolled steel products
(originally imposed in 2014) were
of a “substantially equivalent” level.
At the Committee’s spring meeting, the EU asked
Ukraine about the status of its legislation following
a judicial decision. At its autumn meeting, the
Committee agreed to an amendment of the format
of its annual report.

Final measures
Initiation

82

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Safeguards
www.wto.org/safeguards

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

T rade -related i nve s t ment mea s u re s
•	 The Committee continued to discuss concerns regarding local content requirements
raised in previous years.
•	 The Committee also heard a new concern related to pharmaceutical products
and medical devices in Indonesia.

Background
on trade-related
investment measures
The TRIMs Agreement
recognizes that certain
investment measures
can restrict and distort
trade. It states that
WTO members may not
apply any trade-related
investment measure that
discriminates against foreign
products or that leads to
quantitative restrictions,
both of which violate basic
WTO principles. A list of
prohibited TRIMs, such as
local content requirements,
is part of the Agreement.
The TRIMs Committee
monitors the implementation
of the Agreement and allows
members to consult on any
relevant matters.

At its two meetings in 2018, the Trade-related
Investment Measures (TRIMs) Committee
continued its discussion of investment measures
raised by WTO members in previous years which
allegedly stipulate that at least part of a good or
service should be locally produced.
These concerns included measures adopted
by Argentina in its auto parts industry and
by China covering the use of technology by
companies in the insurance industry. A number
of Indonesian measures have also been
questioned, including the Industry Law and
Trade Law and requirements for dairy importation
and distribution, as well as requirements in the
telecommunications sector, the energy sector
and the retail sector. Some WTO members
questioned Nigerian guidelines in information
communication technologies. Finally, members
again raised concerns about the implementation
of Russia’s import substitution policy and
Turkey’s policy in the pharmaceutical sector.

The Committee also heard, for the first time,
concerns expressed by the European Union and
the United States in relation to requirements for
pharmaceutical products and medical devices
in Indonesia.
Russia informed WTO members that it was
terminating its WTO-inconsistent auto investment
programmes and would raise preferential tariffs
on auto components up to their bound tariff rates.
These programmes allowed auto investors to
import auto parts free of duty on condition they
met local content requirements. As stipulated by
its accession protocols, Russia was allowed to
maintain these requirements until 1 July 2018.
The Committee took note of new notifications
submitted by Cambodia and Liberia under Article
6.2 of the TRIMs Agreement, which requires
WTO members to notify the Committee of all
publications in which TRIMs may be found,
including those applied by regional and local
governments and authorities within their territory.

5

Trade-related investment measures
www.wto.org/trims

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

83

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

I nfor m at ion Te c h nolo g y Ag re ement
•	 The Committee continued discussion of non-tariff barriers and improving
market access under the Information Technology Agreement (ITA).
•	 WTO members raised concerns on two issues, involving India and China.
•	 All participants in the 2015 ITA expansion have submitted their expansion commitments.

Background on
the Information
Technology
Agreement
The Information Technology
Agreement (ITA) requires
participants to eliminate
duties on IT products on
a most-favoured nation
basis, meaning that all
WTO members benefit,
not just participants in
the Agreement. The ITA
covers a large number of
high-technology products,
including computers,
telecommunications
equipment, semiconductors,
software and scientific
instruments. The Committee
of the Participants in the
Expansion of Trade in
Information Technology
Products oversees the
Agreement. The ITA has
53 participants, representing
82 WTO members.

In 2018, the ITA Committee reviewed
implementation of the Agreement. El Salvador
submitted documentation for the rectification
and modification of its schedules to incorporate
commitments arising from the ITA. Two
implementation issues, concerning India and
China, were raised at the May and October
meetings. WTO members expressed concerns
at the import duties that India has introduced on
mobile phones and their parts, which members
consider to be covered by the ITA. They also
sought clarifications from China on new tariffs
on certain semi-conductor products covered
by the ITA.
The ITA Committee continued its discussions
on the question of non-tariff barriers and how to
improve market access in information technology.
The industry has long been pressing for the
harmonization of standards, for both technical and
administrative regulations, which create barriers
by significantly increasing compliance costs.
One of the key areas of the non-tariff measures
(NTMs) work programme is a survey of conformity
assessment procedures for electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC) and electromagnetic
interference (EMI) adopted and used by ITA

participants. Regarding its work on an EMC/EMI
pilot project, the Committee took note that of the
53 participants in the ITA, 39 had provided survey
responses. The Committee encouraged those that
had not yet done so to provide the information.
In considering ways to advance and expand
its work on NTMs other than EMC/EMI, the
Committee continued its discussions on the
follow-up to a workshop held in May 2015 and
to the Symposium marking the 20th anniversary
of the ITA, held in June 2017. At the request of
the Committee, the Chair Ms Zsófia Tvaruskó
(Hungary)undertook informal consultations
with interested WTO members to examine
the recommendations suggested by industry
representatives. Consultations will continue
in 2019. The main issues raised at the 2015
workshop were transparency, standards for
recognition of test results, e-labelling and
energy efficiency.
On classification divergences, five ITA participants
sought technical assistance from the WTO
Secretariat regarding the Committee’s decision
in 2013 to use the HS 2007 classification (see
page 64) for 18 products, mainly semiconductor
manufacturing equipment. In respect to
the possible HS 2007 classification for 22
“Attachment B” items of the 1996 Ministerial
Declaration, for which there is no agreed tariff
classification, the Secretariat has received
comments from 21 WTO members.

2015 ITA expansion
Reporting on behalf of the ITA expansion group,
Canada told the Committee that participants
continued to implement tariff reduction
commitments with respect to the 201 IT products
covered by the expansion deal, reached in 2015.
The new products include integrated circuits
and touch screens. It was the first major tariffcutting agreement at the WTO since 1996 and
accounts for 90 per cent of world trade in the
products covered.
Albania submitted its ITA expansion commitments
in 2018, meaning that all 26 participants,
representing 55 WTO members, have now
done so.

84

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Information Technology Agreement
www.wto.org/ita

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

State t rad i ng ente r p r i s e s
•	 The working party reviewed new and full notifications by 32 WTO members.
•	 Compliance with notification obligations remained poor.
Background on state
trading enterprises
State trading enterprises
are defined as governmental
or non-governmental
enterprises, including
marketing boards, which
have been granted exclusive
or special rights or privileges
to deal with goods for export
and/or import. They are
required to act in a manner
consistent with the WTO
principle of non‑discriminatory
treatment. The Working Party
on State Trading Enterprises
reviews notifications by
WTO members of their state
trading activities.

At its May and October meetings, the Working
Party on State Trading Enterprises (STEs)
reviewed the 2016 and 2017 new and full
notifications by 32 WTO members regarding
the activities of their STEs and asked questions
about specific aspects of notifications made
at previous meetings.

Compliance with notification obligations remained
low. For the 2016 notification period (covering
2014 and 2015), only 54 new and full notifications
were received out of a total of 136 WTO members
subject to this obligation. For the 2017 notification
period (covering 2016 and 2017), only 26 new
and full notifications were received. WTO
members were encouraged by the working party
to continue to work with their respective capitals
and the WTO Secretariat to improve
their notification record.

T rade i n c iv i l ai rc raf t
5

•	 The Committee met twice – once formally – in 2018.
Background on trade
in civil aircraft
The Agreement on Trade in
Civil Aircraft aims to achieve
maximum freedom of world
trade in civil aircraft, parts
and related equipment –
such as engines, radar, flight
recorders and ground flight
simulators – by eliminating
tariffs on goods listed in its
product annex, by promoting
fair and equal competitive
opportunities for civil
aircraft manufacturers, and
by regulating government
support for civil aircraft
development, production and
marketing. The Committee
on Trade in Civil Aircraft
provides signatories with an
opportunity to consult on
any matters relating to the
operation of the Agreement.

The Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft continued
the discussion, begun in November 2016, on
whether and how to undertake a further update
of the tariff classifications of the list of products
covered by the Agreement on Trade in Civil
Aircraft. The proposal on the table is to align it
with the latest version of the Harmonized System,
the system used internationally for classifying
goods for customs purposes.

State trading enterprises
www.wto.org/statetrading

Trade in civil aircraft
www.wto.org/aircraft

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

85

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade fac i l itat ion
•	 The Trade Facilitation Agreement marked its first anniversary; it entered into force
in February 2017.
•	 Implementation of the Agreement made good headway: over 85 per cent of the WTO
membership has completed the ratification process and notifications are equally
on the rise.
•	 The Trade Facilitation Committee continued its oversight of implementation efforts; WTO
members increasingly shared experiences and successful strategies on implementation.

Background on
trade facilitation
Negotiations on the Trade
Facilitation Agreement were
successfully concluded
in December 2013 at the
WTO’s Ninth Ministerial
Conference. The Agreement
entered into force in
February 2017 after twothirds of members had
completed their domestic
ratification process. The
Agreement aims to expedite
the movement, release
and clearance of goods,
including goods in transit.
It establishes measures
for effective cooperation
between customs and other
appropriate authorities
on trade facilitation and
customs compliance issues.
The Agreement also contains
provisions for technical
assistance and capacity
building. The Committee
on Trade Facilitation
oversees the Agreement.

WTO members made strong progress in 2018
in implementing the Trade Facilitation Agreement
(TFA). The WTO received a high number of
ratifications by members and notifications by
developing countries outlining the timetables
envisaged for implementing the Agreement.
The TFA entered into force on 22 February 2017
after acceptances of the required two-thirds of
WTO members were received. Acceptances
had risen to 141 by the end of January 2019,
meaning that a significant majority (86 per cent)
of WTO members had completed their domestic
ratification processes.
“The TFA is one of the biggest trade reforms
in a generation. By dramatically reducing trade
costs, it will really bring great benefits for all WTO
members, especially developing countries,” said
DG Azevêdo on the Agreement’s first birthday.
“We’re working hard to implement the Agreement
in full and deliver those benefits,” he added.
By expediting the movement, release and
clearance of goods across borders, the TFA is
expected to reduce trade costs globally by an
average of 14.3 per cent. These economic gains
would be bigger than the elimination of all existing
average tariffs around the world, with the poorest
countries benefiting most. For the first time, the
terms of the implementation of a WTO agreement
are directly linked to a developing member’s
capacity to implement it.
On notifications, 139 submissions were received
in 2018, giving a total of 231 since the TFA’s
entry into force. The majority consisted of
implementation notifications (otherwise known
as “category notifications”), a key element of
the flexibilities granted to developing and leastdeveloped countries. The submissions indicate
when developing WTO members will be able
to implement the Agreement and what kind of
capacity-building support they require.

86

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Developing and least-developed countries will
implement the TFA provisions in accordance with
the categories (A, B or C) in which they have
designated their commitments. Category A covers
TFA commitments that members undertake to
implement straight away; category B covers those
that the developing or least-developed country will
implement after a transitional period; and category
C covers commitments requiring technical
assistance and capacity-building to implement.
Developed countries have to implement all
provisions immediately.
All WTO members have to provide a series of
transparency notifications, covering: publication
aspects; “single-window” operations, where
multiple transactions with several agencies can
be accomplished through one contact point;
use of customs brokers; and contact points
for information on customs cooperation. All
notifications can be accessed via the expanded
TFA database, which also contains extensive
information on a series of related aspects.
Notifications are also required in the area of
technical assistance and support for capacitybuilding. Donor members must provide annual
information on their assistance activities,
beneficiaries and implementing agencies as well
as on contact points in responsible agencies
and on the process for requesting support.
Developing and least-developed countries have
to submit information on contact points of offices
responsible for coordinating and prioritizing
such support.
The Trade Facilitation Committee held three
regular sessions in 2018 as well as an informal
meeting open to all WTO members. Members
elected Ambassador Dalia Kadišienė of Lithuania
as the Committee’s second Chair. In addition
to continued discussions on notifications,
ratifications and technical assistance, members
increasingly shared experiences with respect
to the implementation of the TFA.

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

The Trade Facilitation Agreement in a nutshell

86%

The TFA has been
accepted by 86%
of WTO members.

-2

The TFA is likely
to reduce the time
to export goods by
almost 2 days.

Expedited trade

22
FEB 2017

The TFA entered
into force in
February 2017.

The themes under discussion included transit
and broader implementation issues, regional
approaches to trade facilitation, and the provision
of opportunities for public comment and
consultations on regulatory procedures. WTO
members compared notes on successful strategies,
national issues and regional initiatives relating to the
resolution of implementation challenges.

OECD publication
In June, the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development launched a
publication on the economic impact of trade
facilitation – “Trade Facilitation and the Global
Economy”. It highlights the difference that trade
facilitation will make for micro, small and mediumsized enterprises (MSMEs), which often face a
prohibitively high cost of trading, and the fact that
inefficient border procedures multiply costs when
goods and components cross borders many
times during their production.
Speaking at the launch, DG Azevêdo said: “This
is the economic reality today. Nearly two-thirds
of traded goods have components that were
made in at least two different countries. Improving
facilitation and lowering costs will help to remove
obstacles to joining global value chains. And this
will help new participants to join these chains
of production.”

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation

14%

The TFA is expected
to reduce trade
costs by 14%.

TFA Facility
The Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility (TFAF)
continued to help WTO members prepare for
implementation of the TFA through national
and regional workshops and by supporting the
participation of capital-based trade facilitation
officials at the October session of the Trade
Facilitation Committee. There was also an
increased focus on supporting the submission
of notifications to ensure members benefit from
flexibilities in implementing the Agreement.
TFAF’s core purpose is to help WTO members
access the support they need from bilateral
donors as well as international and regional
organizations and the private sector. TFAF is
funded by WTO members on a voluntary basis.
Launched in 2014, TFAF offers an informationsharing platform to provide resources, identify
possible donors and undertake donor and
recipient match-making activities. During the
October session of the Committee, the Facility
launched its grant programme, which provides
project preparation and project implementation
grants in cases where developing countries’
efforts to attract funding from other sources
have failed.
TFAF organized a number of workshops aimed
at reinforcing national trade facilitation committees
and exploring and strengthening border agency
cooperation, which is emerging as a pivotal
element of TFA implementation. The Facility
held meetings with partner organizations/
donors to enhance coordination of support for
implementation of the Agreement.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

87

5

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade i n s e r v ic e s
•	 WTO members agreed to hold a dedicated meeting to review the operation
of the services waiver for least-developed countries.
•	 Members engaged in e-commerce discussions throughout the year.
•	 The Services Council held a thematic seminar on the temporary movement
of natural persons across borders to supply services (Mode 4).
•	 Concerns about cybersecurity measures adopted by some members were reiterated.

Background on
trade in services
The General Agreement on
Trade in Services (GATS)
defines trade in services
in terms of four types of
transactions: Mode 1
– cross-border supply
(a supplier in one WTO
member provides services
to a consumer in another
member’s territory); Mode 2
– consumption abroad (a
consumer from one member
consumes services in
another member’s territory);
Mode 3 – commercial
presence (a foreign
company provides services
through establishment in
another member’s territory);
and Mode 4 – presence of
natural persons (individuals
move to supply services in
another member’s territory).
The Council for Trade in
Services oversees the
operation of the GATS.

LDC services waiver
The Council discussed the services waiver for
least developed countries (LDCs) at meetings
throughout the year in accordance with
instructions from the 10th Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi that it “maintain a standing agenda item
to review and promote the operationalization
of the waiver”. The waiver allows WTO members
to grant more favourable treatment to LDC
service suppliers.
In Nairobi, ministers encouraged WTO members
to undertake specific technical assistance
and capacity-building measures to make LDC
suppliers aware of the preferential treatment.
They also instructed the Council to facilitate an
exchange of information on technical assistance
to promote the increasing participation of LDCs
in world services trade and to initiate a process to
review the operation of preferences on the basis
of information provided by members.
LDCs told the Council in October that, despite
increasing revenue generated from tourism
exports — US$ 18 billion in 2017, up from US$ 10
billion in 2010 — LDCs’ share of world services
exports in 2017 remained critically low, at 0.6 per
cent. LDCs highlighted the importance of services
trade as a source of revenue and for realizing their
social and sustainable development objectives.
WTO members agreed that the Council will hold
a dedicated meeting in 2019 to review how LDCs
are making use of the preferences under the
waiver. They called for the information exchange to
be broad, covering the full scope of services trade
opportunities available to LDC service suppliers.
They also asked for the process to be flexible
and driven by the engagement of all members,
including LDCs. Informal consultations were
held early in 2019 to discuss how the dedicated
meeting, which was requested by LDCs, might
unfold and to agree on a specific date.

88

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

The WTO has received 24 notifications of
preferential treatment in favour of LDC services
and service suppliers from 51 members (counting
EU member states as one). These are: Canada;
Australia; Norway; Republic of Korea; China;
Hong Kong, China; Chinese Taipei; Singapore;
New Zealand; Switzerland; Japan; Mexico; Turkey;
the United States; India; Chile; Iceland; Brazil;
the European Union; Liechtenstein; South Africa;
Uruguay; Thailand; and Panama.

E-commerce
WTO members engaged in e-commerce
discussions throughout the year. The Council
considered new papers, heard accounts of
workshops organized in various countries and
learned about individual members’ domestic legal
frameworks for e-commerce. It was informed of
the capacity-building efforts of several members
aimed at assisting developing and least-developed
countries integrate into and benefit from the
digital economy and took note of relevant work
by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) and the International
Telecommunication Union.
Some members called for Council discussions
to focus on the infrastructural and regulatory
challenges that developing countries have to
overcome to participate in the digital economy.
While acknowledging the opportunities created
by the digital era, they argued that rule-making
suggestions for e-commerce are premature,
asserting that the e-commerce work programme
does not contain a negotiating mandate. A few
members expressed concern regarding the
plurilateral initiative on e-commerce (see page 59)
being pursued in parallel to the multilateral track
under the work programme.
India recalled the paper it submitted with South
Africa to the General Council calling for a re-think
of the moratorium on customs duties on electronic
transmissions. The moratorium was extended for a
further two years at the 11th Ministerial Conference
in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Mode 4

Other issues

The Council held a thematic seminar on
10 October on individuals moving to supply
services in another member’s territory, also known
as Mode 4 of the General Agreement on Trade
in Services (GATS).

At several meetings, Japan and the United
States reiterated their concerns about
cybersecurity measures China has recently
adopted or is developing and about measures
that Viet Nam has adopted. The European
Union, Canada, New Zealand, Australia and
Chinese Taipei echoed many of the concerns.
Both China and Viet Nam provided clarifications
and stressed their right to regulate in pursuit
of relevant public policy objectives. In March,
Russia again raised the reform of the Unified
Gas Transportation System of Ukraine.

The seminar provided an overview of Mode 4
and discussed its scope, offering a snapshot
of the specific commitments undertaken and
most favoured-nation exemptions listed by WTO
members. The discussion also focused on Mode
4 access and relevant regulatory disciplines
negotiated in regional trade agreements, the main
challenges of measuring Mode 4 trade and its
economic impact. Participants had the opportunity
to discuss regulatory measures that may have a
bearing on scheduled Mode 4 commitments and
addressed the challenges to realizing the benefits
of existing Mode 4 commitments.

In accordance with the GATS, the Council
received 11 notifications of new or revised
measures that could significantly affect trade
in sectors where the notifying members have
commitments. Seven other notifications dealt with
new economic integration agreements covering
services trade, and another seven concerned
recognition measures in services sectors. The
Council also adopted a template for notifying
changes to existing regional trade agreements.

WTO members
discussed
e-commerce
throughout the year.

5

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

89

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade -related a s p e c t s of i ntel le c t ual
p rop e r t y r ight s (TR I P S )
•	 Six more WTO members confirmed legal acceptance of the Protocol amending
the TRIPS Agreement as work continued on putting this new mechanism into practice.
•	 Eleven members notified the TRIPS Council of new or revised IP legislation.
Work to modernize and streamline transparency mechanisms under TRIPS continued.
•	 The WTO Secretariat focused technical assistance on effective use of the TRIPS
amendment and its implementation in domestic legislation.
•	 The TRIPS Council granted regular observer status to the Cooperation Council
of the Arab States of the Gulf.

Background on
TRIPS
The intellectual property
system has become
central to the debate about
economic development
and broader public
policy questions, such
as innovation policy and
public health. The TRIPS
Agreement is the most
comprehensive international
treaty governing the
protection, administration
and enforcement of
intellectual property rights.
The Council for TRIPS,
a body open to all WTO
members and to certain
observers, administers the
TRIPS Agreement, provides
a forum for debate on
policy issues and reviews
the intellectual property
legislation of individual
WTO members.

Public health
During 2018, six more members formally
deposited the Protocol amending the TRIPS
Agreement, which came into force on 23 January
2017. They were the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
Côte d’Ivoire, Georgia, Guinea, the Kyrgyz
Republic and Paraguay. To date, 126 members
have accepted the Protocol. Members that have
not yet accepted it continue to benefit from
the 2003 waiver granting access to affordable
medicines from third-country sources. The
deadline for acceptance is 31 December 2019.
The amendment, which is now an integral part
of the TRIPS Agreement, provides developing
countries and least-developed countries (LDCs)
with a legal avenue to affordable medicines.
This was the first amendment to a multilateral
WTO agreement.
TRIPS and public health continued to be
addressed in various technical cooperation
activities organized by the WTO Secretariat as
part of the trilateral cooperation of the WTO with
the World Health Organization (WHO) and the
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO)
and its collaboration with other multilateral and
regional partners.
In February, a symposium held by WHO,
WIPO and the WTO discussed challenges and
initiatives regarding new and innovative health
technologies that could accelerate achievement
of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
(see page 131). SDG 3 calls for action to “ensure
healthy lives and promote well-being for all at
all ages”. DG Azevêdo said the discussions
will assist “our shared efforts to ensure that we
maximize the role of innovation and technology in
promoting health and well-being” and in delivering
on the SDGs.

90

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

In October, the annual WTO workshop on trade
and public health took place in Geneva. Attended
by government officials from 28 developing and
least-developed countries (LDCs), the workshop
covered a wide range of trade and IP issues as
they relate to public health.
The WTO also holds tailor-made regional activities
on issues at the crossroads between trade
and health. In November, the WTO Secretariat
organized the first trilateral – WTO, WHO,
WIPO – regional training activity for members
and observers in the Arab and Middle East
region on trade and public health. It was carried
out in collaboration with the Middle East Center
for Economics and Finance of the International
Monetary Fund.

Promoting transparency
In 2018, 11 WTO members notified the Council
of new or updated IP legislation. To date, 136
WTO members have notified their TRIPS
implementing legislation, 111 have provided
responses to a checklist notifying the essential
elements of their systems for enforcement of IP
rights and 143 members have notified contact
points for cooperating with each other on
eliminating trade in IP-infringing goods.
Members’ notifications to the TRIPS Council
provide a comprehensive body of information and
constitute an important transparency mechanism.
They show how WTO members have implemented
the TRIPS Agreement at the domestic level.
At the Council meetings several WTO members
provided further background to their respective
notified legislation. The Council was also briefed
on the wide range of IP policy matters that
members had raised in other members’ trade

Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Access to medicine
The TRIPS amendment eases poorer
countries’ access to medicines by
allowing generic versions of patented
medicines to be produced under
compulsory licences (i.e. without
the consent of the patent owner)
exclusively for export to countries
that cannot manufacture the needed
medicines themselves.

23
JAN 2017

The amendment
entered into force
in January 2017.

policy reviews and the TRIPS-related measures
covered in the G20 and WTO-wide trade
monitoring reports (see page 106).
The WTO Secretariat updated the Council
regularly on developments on the e-TRIPS
project. This aims to streamline arrangements
for submitting and managing notifications and
for developing an online information service to
improve the accessibility of materials relating to
the TRIPS Council’s work.

Plants, animals, biodiversity and
traditional knowledge
The Council continued its discussion on the
patentability of plant and animal inventions, the
relationship between the TRIPS Agreement and
the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and
the protection of traditional knowledge
and folklore.
WTO members’ positions remained unchanged
on two substantive questions: whether the TRIPS
Agreement should be amended to prohibit the
patentability of life forms; and whether – and, if so,
how – TRIPS should do more to promote the CBD
objectives of authorized access and equitable
sharing of the benefits from the use of genetic
resources and associated traditional knowledge
in other WTO members’ jurisdictions.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

126

WTO members
have accepted
the amendment.

The amendment is entirely
driven by public health
concerns. African countries
played a major role in
bringing about this change.

Incentives for technology transfer
In February 2018, the Council concluded its
15th annual review of the reports provided by
developed countries on the incentives granted to
promote and encourage the transfer of technology
to LDCs, as provided by Article 66.2 of the
TRIPS Agreement.
At a meeting in June, the Chair of the Council,
Ambassador Walter Werner (Germany), invited
developed countries to submit their detailed
reports on the actions taken or planned in
accordance with Article 66.2 of the TRIPS
Agreement. The Council began reviewing
these reports at its meeting in November. The
16th annual review concluded in February 2019,
preceded by a workshop to look in more detail
at programmes reported in the process.
The LDCs Group put forward a paper asking
developed countries to fully implement their
technology transfer requirements under WTO
rules. The Group requested the Council to ask
developed countries to only specify incentives
provided to LDCs for technology transfer in their
implementation reports. They also requested that
the Council agree on how developed countries
can provide incentives to their enterprises and
institutions to meaningfully fulfil their technology
transfer commitments and obligations.
Developed countries said they were not too
convinced about the existence of a problem in
need of a solution. Annual reports presented
before the WTO clearly identify programmes
benefiting LDC members, they said.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

91

5

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

TRIPS non-violation and
situation complaints
As mandated by the 11th Ministerial Conference
in Buenos Aires, the TRIPS Council continued to
consider the application of so-called non-violation
and situation complaints. The discussion focused
on whether such disputes should be permitted
and whether to establish the scope and ground
rules (modalities) for such complaints. In general,
WTO disputes can be brought not only if an
agreement or commitment has been violated but
also if an expected benefit has been nullified,
even without any specific violation. The TRIPS
Agreement contained a moratorium on such
complaints, which has been repeatedly extended.
In a shift of tone, several delegations showed
readiness to engage in a discussion of the scope
and modalities for non-violation and situation
complaints should they be initiated under the TRIPS
Agreement. The Chair called for intensified work
on a possible way forward that would permit the
Council to prepare recommendations for adoption
by ministers at the next Ministerial Conference.

Technical cooperation and
capacity-building

The framing and
enforcement of
IP laws has a
significant impact on
global growth.

A two-week advanced course on intellectual
property for government officials, jointly organized
by the WTO and WIPO, was held in Geneva in
March. The training aimed to enhance the capacity
of developing and least-developed countries to
develop and implement national expertise in
IP matters.
The framing and enforcement of IP laws
has a significant impact on global growth
and development, said DG Azevêdo at the
closing session of the IP Researchers Europe
Conference held in Geneva on 29 June. He
underlined that IP has a big role in helping to
generate the innovations that will be needed to
achieve the SDGs. The conference was held at
the end of the annual WIPO-WTO Colloquium
for IP Teachers, which brought together
academics from 26 countries.
Government officials from 29 developing and
least-developed countries took part in a seminar
– “Intellectual Property and Knowledge Flows
in a Digital Era” – at the WTO in November. The
main themes included the way forward on trade
rules and economic implications for cross-border
knowledge flows.
At its meeting in February 2018, the Council
concluded its annual review of technical
cooperation, which had started at its meeting

92

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

in October 2017. In June 2018, the Chair invited
developed countries to supply information on their
activities for the annual review scheduled for later
in the year. Intergovernmental organizations with
observer status and the WTO Secretariat were
also invited to provide information on their TRIPSrelated activities. The annual review took place at
the Council’s November meeting.

IP and innovation
During 2018, the Council continued its information
exchange on intellectual property and innovation.
At the February meeting, WTO members wrapped
up the theme of how IP protection can play
a critical role in boosting inclusive innovation
in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
(MSMEs). Proponents said that recent data
shows that businesses using IP rights perform
better on average. Likewise, businesses owning
IP rights often have higher revenue per employee.
WTO members started discussions on “the
societal value of intellectual property in the new
economy”. Proponents underlined IP’s importance
as a means to promote and protect the expression
of new ideas and inventions, incentivize and foster
ingenuity and follow-on innovation, and enable
cross-border collaboration, trade and engagement
in global value chains.

IP and the public interest
WTO members continued their discussions on
the relationship between IP and the public interest,
including the promotion of public health through
competition law and policy. Members were invited
to share their national experiences and examples
of how competition law is used to achieve
public health objectives. Many WTO members
already use competition law to address various
anti-competitive practices that affect access to
medicines and medical technologies.
Members also shared their national experiences
and practice on regulatory review exception,
which refers to authorizations given by
governments to third parties to carry out clinical
trials for pharmaceutical products without the
prior permission of the patent holder. Without the
exception, generic producers would be blocked
from undertaking the trials required for regulatory
approval, possibly delaying entry into the market
of these generic medicines.

Observer status
At its meeting in November, the Council agreed to
grant regular observer status to the Cooperation
Council of the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC).

Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

T rade a nd env i ron ment
•	 The Committee discussed a broad range of issues, including the circular economy,
sustainable palm oil production, fossil fuel subsidies and the “blue” economy.
•	 International organizations briefed the Committee on ocean resources, efforts to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from ships and climate change negotiations.
•	 The WTO and UN Environment strengthened cooperation to promote trade policies that
support healthy environments and sustainable development.

Background on
trade and
environment
Sustainable development
and protection and
preservation of the
environment are fundamental
goals of the WTO. The
Committee on Trade and
Environment is responsible
for examining the
relationship between trade
and the environment.

Plastic waste and the
circular economy
In 2018, discussions took place on managing
plastic waste and extending the useful life of
products through reuse, repair, remanufacturing
or recycling, all of which can help create a circular
economy, where resources are recovered and
recycled for maximum use, cutting the need for
virgin materials and increasing resource efficiency.
The European Union presented the EU plastics
strategy adopted in January 2018. As part of the
broader EU Circular Economy Action Plan, the
strategy includes a number of recommendations,
including improving the economics and quality of
plastic recycling and driving investments towards

circular solutions. The European Union also
provided information on its proposed directive on
single-use plastics and fishing gear, which was
adopted in March 2019.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) briefed delegations
on its work on trade and the circular economy.
The OECD said trade has a role to play in the
transition to resource-efficient economies. A
representative from the Secretariat of the Basel,
Rotterdam and Stockholm (BRS) conventions on
the harmful effects of chemicals and hazardous
waste reported on preparations to amend
certain annexes of the conventions to improve
management of plastic waste.

Topics discussed in the Committee on Trade and Environment

5
Sustainable
management
of palm oil

Plastic waste
and circular
economy

Responding to
natural disasters

Reform of fossil
fuel subsidies

Climate change
and trade

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

Blue economy

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

93

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Sustainable management
of palm oil
Indonesia and Malaysia stressed the importance
of sustainability in palm oil production and
the need to take into account international
standards, best practices, forest fire management,
employment and productivity.
Several WTO members expressed support
for initiatives that contribute to the sustainable
production and trade of palm oil and recognized
the importance of the palm oil sector, in particular
for smallholders, as a source of growth and
employment, while noting concerns related to
environmental degradation.

Reform of fossil fuel subsidies

Norway briefed
members on efforts
to address overexploitation of the
oceans.

New Zealand and Switzerland, on behalf of the
Friends of Fossil Fuel Subsidy Reform, updated
members on their efforts to rationalize and phase
out fossil fuel subsidies that encourage wasteful
consumption. They reiterated that the WTO has a
role to play as a forum for advancing negotiations
on subsidy disciplines. Some WTO members
said they supported discussing the issue in the
Committee while several others highlighted that
fossil fuel subsidy reforms had no link to the WTO
and said that the WTO is not the appropriate
venue to discuss such matters.
The OECD also shared its recent study “OECD
Companion to the Inventory of Support Measures
for Fossil Fuels 2018”. The study finds that
support for fossil fuels remains high overall despite
signs of decline among OECD countries.

Blue economy
In 2018, the Committee took up presentations
about the sustainable use of marine resources.
Norway briefed members on efforts to address
the over-exploitation of the oceans. It shared
its policies and practices to encourage the
growth of ocean-based industries, incorporate
green technology in the blue economy – the
sustainable use of oceans – and address serious
environmental challenges, such as the rise of
plastic and marine waste.
A representative from the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
presented the main findings of its 2018 flagship
report on “The State of the World Fisheries and
Aquaculture” and underlined the necessity for
the sustainable harvest of ocean resources,
particularly fish and fish products. Fisheries
provide protein for many, particularly in the
poorest countries, and are an important source
of employment. However, the percentage of fish
stocks exploited within biologically sustainable
levels had fallen to 66.9 per cent in 2015 from 90
per cent in 1974, according to FAO.

94

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Members highlighted the WTO’s potential
contribution to sustainability through the
negotiation of disciplines on fisheries subsidies
(see page 45).

Climate change and trade
Australia made a presentation on its climate
change actions and challenges and linked rising
temperatures associated with climate change with
the intensification of natural disasters. Australia
has incorporated climate-resilient development
approaches through policies geared towards
emissions reduction. Chinese Taipei presented
its perspective regarding climate change and
ways to support the implementation of the Paris
Agreement, the global action plan for limiting
global warming.
Presentations were received from observer
organizations, such as the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) and the International Maritime
Organization (IMO). The IMO outlined its plan to
substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions
from ships. The strategy seeks to reduce
emissions by at least 50 per cent by 2050,
compared with 2008, and phase them out entirely
before the end of the century.

Responding to natural disasters
In 2018, the WTO launched a new Australiafunded research project to help countries analyse
how trade can help them respond to and recover
from natural disasters and build resilience to such
events. It also hosted two symposiums on the
issue – in April and December.
“We have been largely reactive … finding
solutions and highlighting problems as and when
they arise. We have never taken the initiative of
looking at the problem as a whole and considering
beforehand how we should respond. That’s what
we’re trying to do today,” DG Azevêdo told the
symposium in April.
December’s symposium looked into the economic
losses resulting from natural disasters, how to use
data to analyse risk and the case for investment in
building resilience to such disasters.

Other briefings on members’
policy developments
In 2018, China made a presentation on its national
policies to combat pollution and to implement the
environment-related United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals. Policies have evolved from
an initial focus on industrial pollution control to a
comprehensive and integrated approach. China’s
current national plan includes an environmental
protection tax law and several mandatory
and voluntary measures to improve the ecoenvironmental quality by 2020.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

New Zealand briefed delegations on recent
policy developments, in particular its ‘trade for
all’ agenda. Public consultations had resulted in
a progressive and inclusive trade agenda that
will integrate environmental, gender, indigenous
communities and small and medium enterprise
issues. Several WTO members noted similarities
in their own trade agendas.

WTO environmental database
The WTO Secretariat presented the 2016 and
2017 updates to the environmental database.
The database covers all environment-related
notifications submitted by WTO members (see
Figure 13) as well as environmental measures
and policies mentioned in trade policy reviews
(see page 102). The Secretariat presented a new
online database, hosted on the WTO website
(www.wto.org/edb) and developed in response
to requests by members to improve the database
interface. Several members expressed their
appreciation for the database.
Figure 13: Environment-related
notifications (1997-2017)
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002

165

8.1%
11.3%

211
182

9.2%

245

10.7%
186

7.8%
11.3%
9.8%

247

2004

10.8%

244

2005

10.8%

311

2006

14.7%

357

2007

13.5%

353

2008

13.4%

2009
2010

395
481

14.5%

453

13.2%

2011

15.8%

2012

16.8%

2013

17.5%

2014

14.6%

2015

14.6%

2016

15.4%

2017

15.9%

In 2018, the WTO held its fourth advanced course
on trade and environment in Geneva for government
officials from 25 WTO members. It made
presentations at regional workshops organized by
the UN and other intergovernmental institutions
covering topics such as fish trade and sustainable
development for small island developing states and
climate change response measures. In addition,
the WTO held a national workshop on trade and
climate change in Argentina.
Trade and environment training was delivered in
the WTO’s Geneva-based and regional tradepolicy courses. Training was also made available
through the e-learning platform, with two new
online courses on the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species and the WTO and
an introductory course on trade and environment.
The UN Environment and the WTO hosted a
high-level dialogue on “Making Trade Work for
the Environment, Prosperity and Resilience”
during the 2018 Public Forum (see page 150).
The dialogue discussed a joint publication
by the two organizations, which identifies
ways to ensure that trade policies support a
healthy environment and promote sustainable
development. The study makes the case that
opening up trade in environmental goods and
services is a triple win – for the economy, the
environment and development.
The WTO maintains an active outreach
programme with UN multilateral environmental
agreement (MEA) secretariats, other
intergovernmental organizations, universities
and think tanks. The WTO participated in the
conference of parties meeting of the UNFCCC,
including in several side events highlighting
the positive contribution that trade and the
multilateral trading system can make to the
environment. The WTO also took part in many
events on how WTO agreements relate to
environmental objectives. An event on reducing
plastics pollution was organized to mark World
Environment Day 2018 and a new trade and
environment speaker series was launched.

281

2003

Technical assistance
and outreach

477
568
620
551
498
575
602

 ercentage of notifications submitted to the WTO
P
that are environment-related
Total environment-related notifications

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

95

5

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

S p ot l i g h t :

H igh-level event on t rade a nd env i ron ment
The WTO and UN Environment hosted in October a leadership dialogue on
environmental and trade policies and released a joint publication –
“Making Trade Work for the Environment, Prosperity and Resilience”.

Leaders from business, government and civil
society participated in the high-level event,
held during the WTO’s Public Forum (see
page 150). Panellists called on the WTO to
expand the contribution of trade to sustainability
and prosperity. They urged stepped-up
action to deliver pro-environment and protrade outcomes that help achieve the United
Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.
Trade policies need to support environmentally
friendly technologies, such as those needed for
renewable energy, they said.
The high-level event, along with the joint
publication and a sustainability exhibition, also
held at the Public Forum, were the first results
of a WTO-UN Environment initiative launched
by WTO Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
and then UN Environment Executive Director
Erik Solheim in January 2018 to identify ways of
ensuring that trade and environment policies are
mutually supportive.
DG Azevêdo said: “A healthy environment is
essential to building prosperous and resilient
economies. This is one key reason why we need
to bring the trade and environmental agendas
closer together. […] Trade is a powerful tool to
make green technologies more affordable and
to help sustainable business expand. I look
forward to continuing working alongside all
stakeholders, including the private sector,
to ensure that trade delivers benefits for people
and the environment everywhere”.

Erik Solheim noted that trade can unlock triple-win
opportunities by creating jobs, improving wellbeing and resource efficiency, and accelerating
the dissemination of goods and services needed
to protect the environment.
In addition to the two heads of agencies, the
high-level panel was composed of: Bertrand
Piccard, Initiator and Chairman, Solar Impulse
Foundation; Kimmo Tiilikainen, Minister of the
Environment, Energy and Housing, Finland; Lucia
Bakulumpagi-Wamala, CEO and Founder, Bakulu
Power, Uganda; Aisa Mijeno, Co-founder and
CEO, SALt (Sustainable Alternative Lighting),
the Philippines; and Jérôme Pécresse, CEO,
GE Renewable Energy.
Noting that “protection of the environment is
profitable”, Bertrand Piccard highlighted the
role that the WTO can play in supporting the
dissemination of profitable, clean and efficient
technologies. These need to be better known,
brought to market and implemented widely,
he said.
Aisa Mijeno said her company is exploring the
possibility of extracting hard-to-source materials
from scrap circuit boards. Both Lucia BakulumpagiWamala and Jérôme Pécresse stressed the
importance of free and open trade for renewable
energy technologies. Kimmo Tiilikainen called for
putting more focus on the circular economy and
making environmental alternatives more viable.
The discussion also emphasized the wide scope
governments have under WTO rules to implement
sound regulations that protect the environment.
The WTO Secretariat and UN Environment
co-publication, launched at the high level event,
examines the interplay between trade and the
environment and details how governments can
work together to ensure that trade and a healthy
environment reinforce each other. Key messages
and proposed actions include:
• increasing collaborative work on strengthening
multilateral cooperation and governance
• fostering private-public partnerships to facilitate
market-oriented approaches that allow trade and
environment to be mutually supportive

96

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Spotlight: Trade and Environment
www.wto.org/environment

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

5
•e
 ncouraging national policy makers to work
together across environment and trade domains
• fostering “win-win” opportunities which provide
economic and environmental benefits
• supporting decision makers from the world’s
poorest countries, along with vulnerable
groups and under-represented communities,
in preserving natural assets

of innovative and sustainable technological
solutions. These ranged from agro-waste
valorization (recycling), energy storage solutions
and salt-water lighting to water-treatment systems
and a fully recyclable electric race car.

• raising awareness among stakeholders on the
role of trade in environmental sustainability and
resilience to climate change.

On the margins of the high-level event, several
delegations organized Public Forum sessions on
sustainability and trade. They included sessions
on the “blue economy” (sustainable use of
the oceans) (Norway), the circular low-carbon
economy (Costa Rica and Finland), trade and
climate change (Canada and France) and a
session on fossil fuel subsidy reform organized
by the Friends of Fossil Fuel Subsidy Reform.
The WTO also launched its new online
environmental database (see page 95).

In the sustainability exhibition, the WTO
partnered with the Climate Show, Solar Impulse
Foundation, the Permanent Mission of Japan,
UN Environment and WIPO GREEN to present
12 exhibitors, who showcased a wide range

The next phase of the joint initiative between the
WTO and UN Environment will comprise a series
of regional activities to discuss with stakeholders
the issues raised in the joint publication and highlevel event.

• delivering inclusive, gender-sensitive outcomes
for environmental and trade policy to support
broader goals within the 2030 Sustainable
Development Agenda

Spotlight: Trade and Environment
www.wto.org/environment

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

97

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade a nd t ra n s fe r of te c h nolo g y
•	 The Working Group highlighted the role of technology and its transfer in improving
productivity and promoting growth and development.
•	 Discussions underlined the importance of the Sustainable Development Goals in guiding
the work of the group.
•	 The African Group suggested that the Working Group recommend the creation of a
dedicated WTO webpage on technology transfer. It also suggested adding strict timelines
for concluding the Working Group’s work programme.

Background on
trade and transfer
of technology
The Working Group on
Trade and Transfer of
Technology was established
at the Doha Ministerial
Conference in 2001 “to
examine the relationship
between trade and transfer
of technology and to make
recommendations on steps
that might be taken, within
the mandate of the WTO, to
increase flows of technology
to developing countries”.

The Working Group on Trade and Transfer of
Technology heard presentations by the World
Intellectual Property Organization, the UN Food
and Agriculture Organization and the World Bank
on their work on trade and transfer of technology.
The discussions highlighted that technology and
technical know-how are essential for improving
productivity, promoting growth and attaining
the development aspirations of less-developed
countries. They also underlined that technology
transfer can be an important tool for narrowing
the technological gap between developed and
developing countries and that technology is
crucial for integrating developing countries into
the multilateral trading system.
WTO members looked at the role of intellectual
property, particularly the evolving role of
universities and public research organizations
in national innovation systems, and deliberated
on the potential of technology and its transfer
in helping to eliminate hunger, food insecurity,
malnutrition and rural poverty.

The discussions underlined the importance of
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals, especially SDG 17, in guiding the work
of the Working Group. Goal 17 emphasizes the
need for enhancing international cooperation on
access to science, technology, innovation and
knowledge sharing.
WTO members continued to discuss a
submission by India, Pakistan and the Philippines
entitled “Facilitating Access to Information on
Appropriate Technology Sourcing – A Step to
Increase Flows of Technology to Developing
Countries”. The proponents informed the group
that they are revising the submission and intend
to present the revisions in the near future.
The African Group suggested that the Working
Group could recommend the establishment of a
dedicated WTO webpage on technology transfer
to serve as a one-stop shop on technology-related
issues. It could, among other things, include
information on all technology and its transferrelated provisions in WTO agreements with links
to intellectual property databases, technology
transfer offices, and technology and innovation
research institutions.
The African Group suggested that WTO members
revisit and restructure the work programme,
established in 2003, by adding timelines. Other
elements in the restructuring could include carrying
out assessments of the needs of developing
countries for transfer of technology and identifying
the constraints they face in gaining access to
technology available in developed countries.

98

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade and transfer of technology
www.wto.org/development

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

R eg ion al t rade ag re ement s
•	 In 2018, the WTO received 12 notifications of regional trade agreements (RTAs) currently
in force, down from 25 in 2017.
•	 The 12 notifications concern seven RTAs. Overall, the Americas and the Asia Pacific
regions notified the highest number of RTAs.
•	 The number of RTAs reviewed by members under the transparency mechanism rose to
172, involving 111 WTO members, up from 159 RTAs and 107 members at the end of 2017.

Background on RTAs

Notifications

The Committee on
Regional Trade Agreements
(CRTA) monitors all RTAs
notified to the WTO,
except those notified
under special provisions
for agreements between
developing countries (the
Enabling Clause), which
are considered by the
Committee on Trade and
Development. The CRTA
examines RTAs individually
and considers their
systemic implications for the
multilateral trading system.

WTO members submitted 12 notifications of
regional trade agreements (RTAs) in 2018, down
from 25 the year before. The 12 notifications
concern seven RTAs, of which five cover trade in
goods and services and two trade in goods only.

The Americas and the Asia Pacific regions
were involved in the highest number of RTA
notifications – four each – followed by Europe
(two). Five of the agreements covered members
from two different regions.
The notifications took the number of RTAs notified
by 31 December 2018 to 681, of which 467 were
in force (see Figure 14). RTAs are reciprocal
preferential trade agreements between two or
more partners. The goods and services aspects of
RTAs as well as accessions to existing RTAs are
notified and counted separately. If all three elements
are counted together, the notifications involved 486
individual RTAs, of which 291 were in force.

Four of the RTAs are between developing
partners, down from eight in 2017, while three
involve developing and developed partners.
There were no notifications of RTAs only between
developed partners, compared with four the
previous year.

Figure 14: All RTAs notified to the GATT/WTO (1948 to 2018) by year of entry into force
105

800

5

100
95
681 700

90
85

Notifications of RTAs in force

80

Notifications of inactive RTAs

75

600

Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force

65

Cumulative number of RTAs in force

467

500

60
55

400

50

Cumulative total

Number per year

Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force and inactive RTAs

70

45
291

40

300

35
30
200

25
20
15

100

10
5
0
2018

2016

2014

2012

2010

2008

2006

2004

2002

2000

1998

1996

1994

1992

1990

1988

1986

1984

1982

1980

1978

1976

1974

1972

1970

1968

1966

1964

1962

1960

1958

1956

1954

1952

1950

1948

0

Note: Notifications of RTAs: goods, services and accessions to an RTA are counted separately. Number of RTAs: goods, services and accessions to an RTA are counted
together. The cumulative lines show the number of notifications/RTAs that were in force for a given year.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

99

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
Table 3: Regional trade agreements considered in 2018
1. Considered in the CRTA:
European Union – Côte d'Ivoire (goods)
Japan – Mongolia (goods and services)
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) – Republic of Korea (services)
Turkey – Malaysia (goods)
Turkey – Republic of Moldova (goods)
European Union – Canada (goods and services)
Canada – Ukraine (goods)
Costa Rica – Colombia (goods and services)
European Union – Republic of San Marino (goods)
Accession of Seychelles to the Southern African Development Community (SADC)
Trade Protocol (goods)
European Union – Cariforum states (goods and services)
European Union – Ghana (goods)
Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) (goods and services)
Treaty on accession of the Republic of Armenia to the EAEU (goods and services)
Treaty on accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the EAEU (goods and services)

2. Considered in the CTD:
Arab Mediterranean Free Trade Agreement (AGADIR) between Egypt, Jordan,
Morocco and Tunisia (goods)
Partial Scope Agreement between Panama and the Dominican Republic (goods)
Note: The table refers to 17 agreements, seven of which covered both goods and
services, nine covered only goods and one only services.

Members continued to discuss the issue of nonnotified RTAs and urged the members concerned
to notify their RTAs to the WTO in a timely manner.
The number of RTAs not notified stood at 79 as
of 12 November 2018, up from 69 on 27 October
2017.The WTO Secretariat issues a list of RTAs
in force but not notified. In 2018, only one RTA
on the list was notified to the WTO. In addition, a
communication concerning several RTAs referred
to in the list was received on 1 November 2018
from Uruguay.
RTAs have risen in number and reach over the
years. Non-discrimination among trading partners
is one of the core principles of the WTO. But RTAs
constitute one of the exemptions and are authorized
under the WTO, subject to a set of rules.

Monitoring RTAs
All RTAs are subject to the provisions and
procedures of the transparency mechanism,
regardless of whether they are notified under
Article XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) 1994, the Enabling Clause
between developing countries (for trade in goods)
or Article V of the General Agreement on Trade
in Services (GATS).
The mechanism provides specific guidelines on
when a new RTA should be notified to the WTO
Secretariat and the related information and data
to be provided. It also requires the Secretariat to
prepare a factual presentation on each RTA and
that each RTA be reviewed by WTO members.
By the end of 2018, 172 RTAs involving 111 WTO
members had been reviewed, compared with 159
RTAs involving 107 members at the end of 2017.
Agreements notified under the GATT 1994 and
the GATS are considered by the Committee
on Regional Trade Agreements (CRTA) while
agreements notified under the Enabling Clause
(see page 130) are considered by a dedicated
session of the Committee on Trade and
Development (CTD), based on the Secretariat’s
factual presentation (see Table 3).
Under the transparency mechanism, WTO
members are encouraged to inform the Secretariat
of any agreements being negotiated or that have
been signed but have not entered into force (socalled early announcements). They are required
to inform the Secretariat of any changes to a
notified agreement and to provide a report once
an agreement is fully implemented.

100

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

In 2018, the CRTA considered 22 notifications of
RTAs, counting goods, services and accessions
separately, compared with 16 in 2017 and 29 in
2016. The CTD held one dedicated session on
RTAs and considered two RTAs notified under
the Enabling Clause.
The transparency mechanism also requires the
Secretariat to prepare “factual abstracts” on RTAs
examined by the CRTA prior to their entry into
force. By the end of 2018, 72 factual abstracts of
agreements currently in force had been prepared
in consultation with the relevant RTA parties and
posted in the RTA database.
One “early announcement” for an RTA under
negotiation was received from the Republic of
Moldova and China, taking to 107 the total number
received as of December 2018. Seventy of these
were subsequently notified to the WTO following
entry into force of the agreements.
Under the transparency mechanism, the CRTA
also discusses end-of-implementation reports for
RTAs, which are short, written reports on how
the liberalization commitments have been put
into effect. They are important for understanding
whether RTAs accomplish what they set out to
do. CRTA Chair Ambassador Julian Braithwaite
(United Kingdom) noted that reports had been
due for 134 RTAs as of 13 March 2018 but none
was received during the year.
The General Council established the
transparency mechanism on a provisional basis
in 2006. Members are required to review the legal
relationship between the mechanism and relevant
WTO provisions on RTAs. The Negotiating Group
on Rules started the review in 2011. At the 10th
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December
2015, ministers called on WTO members to
work towards making the mechanism permanent.

RTA database
The WTO’s RTA database (http://rtais.wto.org),
where details of RTAs notified to the WTO
are stored, was strengthened in 2017 with the
addition of new features and more information.
The new additions became available to the public
in December 2017. The principal changes were:
•T
 he number of topics covered rose to 41 and
the topics were further sub-divided into 72
provisions. Users can search the database for
RTAs that contain one or several of these topics
or provisions.
• Interactive graphs allow users to see the
evolution of RTAs by country or region, or by
date of entry into force, signature or notification.
The underlying data used to produce the graphs
can be exported to an Excel spreadsheet.
• Users are able to search the preferential tariff
offered by individual WTO members under
their RTAs and compare it to their latest mostfavoured-nation tariff. The search function is
provided at the tariff line level. Exporters can
analyse preferential tariffs in distinct export
markets for certain products and compare
them to MFN tariffs.
The database permits users to identify RTAs with
the provisions they are interested in and provides
a clearer picture of any common features of RTAs
and the evolution of emerging trends in RTAs.

5

Impact of RTAs on the multilateral
trading system
The Nairobi Ministerial Declaration instructed the
CRTA to discuss the systemic implications of
RTAs for the multilateral trading system and their
relationship with WTO rules. Ministers reaffirmed
the need to ensure RTAs remain complementary
to, and not a substitute for, the multilateral
trading system.
In June, the Chair announced that he was taking
the issue off the CRTA agenda as there had been
no response to his offer to hold consultations.
Issues relating to the systemic relationship
between RTAs and the WTO are discussed
under other agenda items and the Chair hoped
that these discussions would continue.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

101

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade Pol ic y R ev iew s
•	 In 2018, the Trade Policy Review Body reviewed 18 WTO members.
•	 Montenegro and Vanuatu were reviewed for the first time.
•	 Seven follow-up workshops and a regional trade policy workshop were held during the year.

Background on
Trade Policy Reviews
The Trade Policy Review
Mechanism aims at
encouraging all WTO
members to adhere to
WTO rules. Through its
regular trade policy reviews,
the mechanism enables
members to collectively
examine the trade policies
and practices of individual
members in all trade-related
areas. Reviews are not
intended to serve as a
basis for the enforcement
of obligations or for dispute
settlement procedures.

Montenegro was
reviewed for the first
time in 2018.

102

In 2018, the Trade Policy Review Body (TPRB)
reviewed the trade policies and practices of
18 WTO members, including Montenegro and
Vanuatu, which were reviewed for the first time
since their accession to the WTO in 2012. The
other members reviewed were: The Gambia;
Malaysia; Egypt; the Philippines; Guinea;
Mauritania; Colombia; Norway; Uruguay; China;
Israel; Chinese Taipei; Armenia; Hong Kong,
China; Nepal; and the United States. The dates
of the trade policy reviews and the members
covered are shown in the map on page 104.
By the end of 2018, the TPRB had conducted
485 reviews since 1989, covering 155 of the
164 WTO members. The United States has been
reviewed 14 times, followed by the European
Union and Japan – 13 times each; Canada – ten
times; Hong Kong, China – eight times; Australia,
Brazil, China, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
Norway, Singapore, Switzerland and Thailand –
seven times; India, Indonesia, Mexico, and Turkey
– six times; and Chile, Colombia, Iceland, Israel,
Liechtenstein, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria,
the Philippines, South Africa and Uruguay – five
times. Thirty members have been reviewed four
times and 30 members three times.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Under a new review cycle to be phased in from
2019, the four largest trading entities (currently
the European Union, the United States, China
and Japan) will be reviewed every three years,
compared with every two years previously. The
next 16 largest will be reviewed every five years,
up from four previously, and other members every
seven years (six previously).
An increasing number of members – nine against
five in 2017 – opted for the alternative timeline for
submission of written questions and replies for
their TPR meetings in 2018. This timeline requires
members to submit written questions five weeks
before a meeting; the reviewed member should
submit written responses one week in advance.
Under the standard timeline, written questions
must be submitted two weeks before the meeting,
with written responses provided by the start of
the meeting. For the first time, members had the
option of completing the Q&A online, which eight
members opted to do during the year.
Each trade policy review is available as a WTO
publication. This includes the report by the WTO
Secretariat, the report by the member under
review, the concluding remarks by the Chair of the
TPRB and a section on key trade policy facts.

Trade Policy Reviews
www.wto.org/tpr

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

TPR follow-up workshops
After a trade policy review, the reviewed member
may request the Secretariat to organize a followup workshop with domestic stakeholders to
disseminate the outcome of the review and to
discuss technical assistance and capacity-building
needs. In 2018, seven follow-up workshops –
for Angola, Benin, Colombia, Egypt, Paraguay,
the Philippines and Togo – were conducted. A
regional follow-up workshop for the eight countries
of the West African Economic and Monetary
Union (WAEMU) was also organized in Benin.

Trade Policy Review
programme for 2019
Thirteen TPR meetings are scheduled to be held
in 2019 for 17 members. They are: Ecuador; East
African Community (Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda,
Tanzania and Uganda); Bangladesh; Samoa;
Papua New Guinea; Trinidad and Tobago;
Canada; Republic of North Macedonia; Suriname;
Costa Rica; Peru; Lao People’s Democratic
Republic; and Nicaragua (see Figure 15).

Figure 15: Trade Policy Reviews in 2019
Canada

Republic of North
Macedonia

Bangladesh
Trinidad and
Tobago

Nicaragua

Lao People’s
Democratic
Republic

Costa Rica
Suriname
Ecuador

5
Peru

East African Community

Papua New
Guinea

(Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda,
Tanzania and Uganda)

Samoa
T
 rade Policy Reviews 2019

Trade Policy Reviews in 2018
www.wto.org/tpr

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

103

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade Pol ic y R ev iew s i n 2018

United States
17 and 19 December 2018

The Gambia
23 and 25 January 2018

Guinea and Mauritania
Colombia

29 and 31 May 2018

12 and 14 June 2018

Uruguay
27 and 29 June 2018

104

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade Policy Reviews in 2018
www.wto.org/tpr

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

The WTO conducted 17 trade policy review meetings
in 2018, covering the trade policies and practices of
18 WTO members. The dates of the reviews and the
WTO members covered are shown on the map. Further
information, including the Chair’s concluding remarks
for each review, can be found on the WTO website.

Norway
18 and 20 June 2018

China
11 and 13 July 2018

Montenegro
11 and 13 April 2018

Armenia
20 and 22 November 2018

Hong Kong, China
26 and 28 November 2018

Chinese Taipei

Nepal

12 and 14 September 2018

3 and 5 December 2018

5

Israel

The Philippines

17 and 19 July 2018

26 and 28 March 2018

Egypt

Malaysia

20 and 22 February 2018

14 and 16 February 2018

Vanuatu
23 and 25 October 2018

Trade Policy Reviews in 2018
www.wto.org/tpr

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

105

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade mon itor i ng rep or t s
•	 The 2018 reports noted a proliferation of trade-restrictive actions. Trade coverage of importrestrictive measures was more than seven times that recorded in the previous overview.
•	 “The proliferation of trade-restrictive actions and the uncertainty created by such actions
could place economic recovery in jeopardy,” said DG Roberto Azevêdo.
•	 World trade growth slowed as trade tensions multiplied and global financial
conditions tightened.
•	 Trade should continue to expand in 2019 but at a more moderate pace than
previously forecast.

Background on
trade monitoring
reports
The WTO began regular
monitoring of global trade
developments in early 2009,
covering all trade-related
measures implemented
by WTO members and
observers. Initially launched
in the context of the global
financial crisis, the trade
monitoring exercise has
become a regular function
in the WTO that further
strengthens the transparency
aims of the Trade Policy
Review Mechanism by
shedding light on the latest
trends in the implementation
of a broad range of policy
measures that facilitate as
well as restrict the flow of
trade. The trade monitoring is
overseen by the Trade Policy
Review Body.

The trade monitoring reports showed a proliferation
of trade-restrictive measures implemented by
WTO members from mid-October 2017 to midOctober 2018 and a significant increase in the
trade coverage of such measures compared with
previous reports. The reports provided a first factual
insight into the trade-restrictive measures imposed
in the context of the current trade tensions.
The WTO Secretariat prepared four reports on
global trade policy developments during 2018.
These reports pointed out that further escalation in
trade-restrictive measures would carry potentially
large risks for global trade, with knock-on effects
for economic growth, jobs and consumer prices.
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo urged WTO
members to use all means at their disposal to deescalate the situation and said that the WTO will
do all it can to support its membership and that
collective leadership from WTO members will be
essential to this end.
The trade monitoring reports have no legal effect
on the rights and obligations of WTO members.
They neither seek to pronounce on whether a trade
measure is protectionist nor question the explicit
right of members to take certain trade measures.

Figure 16: Trade measures, mid-October 2017 to mid-October 2018
(by number)
Total: 807
296

0

50

212

137

100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800

Trade remedy initiations
Trade remedy terminations
Measures facilitating trade
Trade-restrictive measures

106

162

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Key developments in 2018
During the period from mid-October 2017 to
mid-October 2018 WTO members implemented
a total of 807 trade measures. This figure includes
measures restricting trade, measures facilitating
trade and trade remedy measures (see Figure 16).
WTO members implemented 137 new traderestrictive measures during the period under
review, an average of 11 new measures per month.
This is higher than the average of nine measures
recorded in the previous annual overview.
WTO members also implemented 162 measures
aimed at facilitating trade, nearly 14 per month,
which is higher than the average of 11 per
month previously.
The trade coverage of the import-restrictive
measures was estimated at US$ 588.3 billion,
more than seven times that recorded in the
previous overview. The trade coverage of the
import-facilitating measures was estimated at
US$ 295.6 billion and was 1.8 times larger than
the previous annual overview (see Figure 17).
“The proliferation of trade-restrictive measures
and the uncertainty created by such actions could
place economic recovery in jeopardy. Further
escalation would carry potentially large risks for
global trade, with knock-on effects for economic
growth, jobs and consumer prices around the
world,” DG Azevêdo said.
On trade remedy measures, the period under
review witnessed a similar trend in the monthly
average of initiations of investigations and a sharp
increase in terminations of measures. Initiations
of anti-dumping investigations continue to be
the most frequent trade remedy action. Trade
remedy measures (anti-dumping, countervailing
and safeguard measures) continue to be a very
important trade policy tool for WTO members
and account for about 63 per cent of all trade
measures captured in the reports.

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

The trade coverage of trade remedy initiations
introduced during the review period by WTO
members was US$ 93.6 billion and that of
trade remedy terminations US$ 18.3 billion,
both significantly larger than the trade coverage
recorded for these measures in the previous
annual overview.
World trade growth slowed during the review
period as trade tensions multiplied and global
financial conditions tightened. The volume of
merchandise trade was up 3.4 per cent in the first
half of 2018 after rising 5.4 per cent in the second
half of 2017. Slower trade growth coincided with
the introduction of new trade measures targeting
a variety of exports from large economies. Direct
impacts of the new measures have been modest
up to mid-October 2018 but rising trade policy
uncertainty and falling export orders could weigh
on trade and output.
Trade should continue to expand in 2019 but at
a more moderate pace than previously forecast.

Continuous consultation
The most important element in collecting
trade policy information for the reports is the
close and continuous consultation between
the WTO Secretariat and WTO members.
This consultation seeks to gather complete, upto-date and accurate information on trade-related
measures and to verify the relevant information
collected from other public sources.

The WTO Secretariat collates all recorded
country-specific information on trade measures
and re-submits this information to each WTO
member for verification. This verification process
is a unique feature of the WTO’s monitoring efforts
and represents a quality-control mechanism.
The trade monitoring reports are subsequently
discussed at meetings of the WTO’s Trade Policy
Review Body.
The reports covered a range of other subjects,
such as the continuous increase in trade concerns
raised in WTO bodies. This demonstrates that
members are actively using the WTO committees
to engage trading partners regarding real or
potential areas of trade friction. Other important
trade-related developments covered include
members’ compliance with various notification
requirements of WTO agreements.

Database
The Trade Monitoring Database, which is publicly
available, provides information on trade measures
implemented by WTO members and observers
and includes various search criteria options,
e.g. country or country group, HS code, type of
measure, date of measure. Members are regularly
invited to update information compiled by the
WTO Secretariat since 2008.

Figure 17: T
 rade coverage of import-restrictive and import-facilitating measures
(US$ billion)

5

600

500
400

300
200

100
0
mid-Oct14mid-Oct15

mid-Oct15mid-Oct16

mid-Oct16mid-Oct17

mid-Oct17mid-Oct18

Import-restrictive
Import-facilitating
Note: These figures represent the trade coverage of the measures (i.e. annual imports of the products concerned from economies
affected by the measures) and not the impact of the trade measures. These are estimates based on 2013 to 2017 import data.
Liberalization associated with the 2015 expansion of the WTO’s Information Technology Agreement is not included in these figures.

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

107

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

T rade, debt a nd f i n a nc e
•	 DG Azevêdo sees “significant progress” in bridging persistent trade financing gaps, which
affect poorer countries and smaller businesses in particular.
•	 Trade finance facilitation programmes are set to reach $35 billion in 2018, a 50 per cent
increase on the level two years earlier.
•	 With the support of the Working Group on Trade, Debt and Finance, DG Azevêdo continues
to work with international partners on trade financing.
•	 A WTO, World Bank and International Monetary Fund report says global trade policy can
help unlock opportunities provided by information technologies and other fundamental
changes to the global economy.

Background on
trade, debt and
finance
WTO ministers decided in
2001 to establish a Working
Group on Trade, Debt and
Finance to look at how the
WTO could contribute to
finding a durable solution to
the external debt problems
of many developing
countries and to avoid having
WTO members’ trade
opportunities undercut by
financial instabilities. The
Working Group has been
focusing its attention on a
range of financial issues with
an impact on trade, including
the provision of trade finance
and the relationship between
exchange rates and trade.

DG Azevêdo told the WTO Working Group
on Trade, Debt and Finance that there has
been “significant progress” in enhancing the
trade finance programmes of key multilateral
institutions, particularly with regard to trade
financing flows for developing countries. The
Asian Development Bank alone supported trade
transactions from more than 2,800 small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in 2017 in
countries such as Cambodia, Myanmar and
Bangladesh, he told the Working Group in June.
Progress has also come in addressing knowledge
gaps in local financial institutions, opening
dialogue with trade finance regulators and tracking
and monitoring trade finance gaps – all targets
laid out in a 2016 WTO report “Trade Finance
and SMEs”. Multilateral development banks, for
example, have boosted their capacity-building

“Trade finance and
SMEs” looks at how
to address trade
financing gaps.

Trade finance
and SMEs
Bridging the gaps in provision

work on trade finance, in collaboration with the
International Chamber of Commerce and the WTO.
Together they trained a record 2,600 people in
2017 – across 85 countries – well above the target
of 1,000 trade financiers per annum. “All of this is
very positive. However, clearly much more needs
to be done,” DG Azevêdo said.
Some 80 to 90 per cent of world trade relies
on trade finance (trade credit and insurance/
guarantees). But finance gaps – the amount of
trade finance requested but rejected – remain at
around US$ 1.5 trillion (some 10 to 15 per cent
of trade finance markets). “Today, 60 per cent of
trade finance requests by SMEs are rejected,” the
DG said in October at the IMF and World Bank
annual meeting. When these requests are rejected
by banks, the transaction is often abandoned.
According to the World Economic Forum, trade
finance is one of the top three obstacles to
exporting for 50 per cent of countries.
DG Azevêdo worked with the Chief Executive
Officer of the International Financial Corporation
(IFC) and the Chair of the Financial Stability
Board (FSB) to address some of the regulatory
challenges faced by trade finance providers,
notably in developing countries. Joint missions
gathered experts from the FSB, IFC, the
WTO and multilateral development banks to
deliver knowledge on trade finance and on
compliance requirements.
At the October IMF and World Bank meeting,
held in Indonesia, DG Azevêdo and Philippe Le
Houérou, CEO of the IFC, co-hosted a session
on financial inclusion in trade, which discussed
inter-institutional steps to reduce the global
trade finance gap. Heads or senior officials of
the IMF, the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, the Islamic Development
Bank, the African Import Export Bank and the
FSB also took part.

108

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

The seven organizations committed themselves
to finding ways to close the gaps in trade finance
provision. As part of the effort, the IFC and
the WTO have agreed to co-produce a new
publication to share best practices on regulatory
compliance in trade finance. This will include
successful case studies provided by various
regional development banks.
“We need to make global trade more inclusive.
But trade inclusion needs financial inclusion.
So we need to continue developing concrete
ideas and solutions that make a real difference.
Working with a range of partners — including the
private sector — can help provide momentum to
this work,” DG Azevêdo said.

Strengthening cooperation
In 2018, a joint report by the WTO, the World
Bank and the IMF – “Reinvigorating Trade and
Inclusive Growth” – noted that trade integration
could play a much larger role in boosting shared
prosperity. The report concludes that greater
openness in global trade policy can help unlock
opportunities provided by information technologies
and other fundamental changes.
DG Azevêdo, IMF Managing Director Christine
Lagarde and the then World Bank President Jim
Yong Kim met regularly at IMF and World Bank
gatherings and at the G20 in 2018.

Expert Group on Trade Finance
Under the chair of the Director-General, the Expert
Group on Trade Finance continued to evaluate
gaps in trade finance markets. The Group includes
the IFC, regional development banks, export
credit agencies, big commercial banks and other
international organizations.

5

DG Azevêdo cohosted a session on
financial inclusion
in trade at an IMF/
World Bank meeting
in Indonesia.

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

109

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Gove r n ment P ro c u rement Ag re ement
•	 Australia’s accession to the Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA) was
successfully concluded.
•	 GPA parties agreed in principle to the UK’s final market access offer to accede to the
Agreement in its own right after it leaves the European Union.
•	 The Republic of North Macedonia circulated its initial market access offer. Discussions
continued on the accessions of China, Russia, the Kyrgyz Republic and Tajikistan.

Background on
the Government
Procurement
Agreement
The GPA aims to open
up, based on principles
of reciprocity, and to the
extent agreed between
WTO members, government
procurement markets
to foreign competition,
and to make government
procurement more
transparent. It provides
legal guarantees of nondiscrimination for the
products, services and
suppliers of GPA parties
in procurement covered by
the Agreement. The GPA is
a plurilateral agreement —
open to all interested WTO
members and binding only
the parties to it. Currently,
47 WTO members
(including the European
Union and its member
states) are bound by the
Agreement. The Committee
on Government Procurement
administers the GPA.

110

Accessions to the GPA
The negotiations on Australia’s accession to the
WTO’s Agreement on Government Procurement
(GPA), initiated in 2015, were successfully
concluded on 17 October 2018 with the GPA
Committee inviting Australia to accede to the
Agreement. Australia will become a full-fledged
party to the GPA 30 days after submitting its
Instrument of Accession to the WTO’s
Director-General.
GPA Committee Chair Mr Carlos Vanderloo
(Canada) said: “This is a major achievement for
Australia, for the GPA Committee and for the
WTO. It adds value to and strengthens the GPA
while also sending a strong signal to current
accession candidates. We have shown that we
can get the job done and that we are pragmatic
and result-oriented.”

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

In November, agreement was reached in
principle on terms for the United Kingdom’s
accession to the GPA, in its own right, once
it leaves the European Union. The UK offer is
intended to replicate its current GPA schedule
of commitments as an EU member, with minor
technical adjustments. In February 2019, parties
to the GPA gave their final approval to the terms
for the UK’s accession to the pact.
Under the terms of the decision, the UK is covered
by the GPA as a member state of the EU until the
date of its withdrawal from the EU or, if the EU
and the UK conclude a withdrawal agreement that
provides for a transition period, until the date of
expiry of that transition period. The UK’s accession
to the GPA will take effect 30 days after the UK
government submits its instrument of acceptance.

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Figure 18: Growth in GPA membership, 1996-2018
50
45
38

40

40

41

42

43

45

47 47 47

35
27

30

28

25
23

19 19 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20
96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18

The Republic of North Macedonia applied for
accession to the GPA in 2017 and circulated its
initial market access offer in February 2018.
In April, Chinese President Xi Jinping said
that China would accelerate the process of its
accession to the GPA. A Chinese delegation
told the Committee that an upcoming revised
offer would likely include expanded coverage of
sub-central governmental entities (a proposed
list of entities whose procurement would be open
for competition) and of state-owned enterprises.
Russia reported ongoing work on a revised
offer and on updating of legislation related to
government procurement.
GPA parties see Russia’s and China’s accessions,
on the appropriate terms, as very significant for
the Agreement, for the WTO and for the world
economy. The accessions of the Kyrgyz Republic
and Tajikistan continued to advance.
Another four WTO members – Albania, Georgia,
Jordan and Oman – have initiated the process
of acceding to the Agreement. Five other WTO
members – Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Mongolia,
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Seychelles –
have GPA-related commitments in their respective
protocols of accession to the WTO.
The GPA is a plurilateral agreement and only the
parties to the agreement are bound by it. Any
WTO members can apply. Accession negotiations
include a review of the candidate’s legislative
and policy frameworks to ensure full compliance
with the GPA and negotiations on market
access commitments. Government procurement
accounts for about 15 per cent of developed and
developing-country economies. Only a part of this
is currently covered by the GPA – an estimated
US$ 1.7 trillion annually.
The past decade has witnessed steady growth
in the GPA’s membership (see Figure 18).
Many WTO members are observers to the GPA
Committee. Belarus was granted observer status
on 27 June 2018, bringing the number
of observers to 32.

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa

Monitoring of implementation
and legislation
The revised version of the Agreement, adopted
in 2012, is in force for all but one of the parties,
Switzerland. The latter has assured the Committee
that it will provide its acceptance as soon as
possible, taking account of relevant internal
requirements and legislative procedures.
The revised GPA entered into force on 6 April
2014, extending coverage to approximately
500 additional procurement entities, including
local government and sub-central entities,
together with new services and other areas
of public procurement activities. The GPA’s
role was strengthened in promoting good
governance, battling corruption and protecting
the environment.
Continuing progress was made on the WTO’s
e-GPA web portal. This provides a single entry
point for market access information under
the revised Agreement together with related
information that parties have committed to provide.
It offers improved transparency, with the aim of
better publicizing market access opportunities.
Envisaged further improvements include a module
to handle notifications and to facilitate access to
related data.

Work programmes
Attention in the work programmes focused
on sustainable procurement, the collection
and reporting of statistical data and small
and medium-sized enterprises. The work
programmes, launched in 2014, are intended to
promote transparency, improve the Agreement’s
administration and assist with preparations for
possible future negotiations. The revised GPA
calls for further negotiations to improve the
Agreement and to progressively reduce and
eliminate remaining discriminatory measures.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

111

5

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Technical assistance and
international cooperation
The WTO Secretariat carried out an intensive
programme of technical assistance, including
two global workshops, two regional workshops
and eight national seminars. The two global
workshops were held in Geneva and focused
on accessions, implementation of the GPA and
governance issues.
The two regional workshops were held in
Thailand and in Moldova. National seminars
were organized for Afghanistan, Belarus,
Brazil, China, Kazakhstan, Moldova,
the Philippines and Seychelles.

In Central and Eastern Europe, the WTO
Secretariat continued its cooperation with
the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development on technical assistance.
Collaboration has also been strengthened with
the Commercial Law Development Programme
of the US Department of Commerce and
other international organizations, including the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development, the World Bank and other
regional development banks.

Figure 19: Market coverage, members and observers of the GPA

 arties to the GPA: 19 parties, which together cover 47 WTO members. The European Union and
P
its member states are counted as one.
W TO members in the process of GPA accession: Albania, Australia, China, Georgia, Jordan, the
Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of North Macedonia, Oman, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and the
United Kingdom in its own right.
Other observer countries: Afghanistan, Argentina, Kingdom of Bahrain, Belarus, Brazil, Cameroon,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mongolia, Pakistan, Panama,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey and Viet Nam.

112

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

T rade a nd women’s emp owe r ment
•	 The WTO and the World Bank are carrying out research to build knowledge on the impact
of trade measures on women.
•	 The WTO marked International Women’s Day 2018 with a week-long series of events and
a high-level session on “Delivering opportunities for women”.
•	 The WTO has developed its first training module on trade and gender.

Background on
trade and women’s
empowerment
In 2017, the WTO appointed
a Trade and Gender
Focal Point tasked with
coordinating work among
divisions, taking stock of
what the WTO is doing and
considering opportunities
for further work and new
initiatives. The WTO seeks
to build a more inclusive
trading system that will
allow more women to
participate in trade and to
reap its benefits. It seeks to
raise awareness on the link
between trade and gender,
facilitate WTO members’
actions on trade and gender,
generate new data on the
impact of trade on women
and provide training to
government officials and to
women entrepreneurs.

The WTO held a
high-level event to
mark International
Women’s Day.

Research work on trade and gender
The WTO and the World Bank are working
together on a research project, launched in 2017,
to build knowledge on how trade measures impact
women. This research will provide new data on
the links between trade and gender. Based on its
findings, both organizations will launch a flagship
report on trade and gender in 2019.
In December, the Netherlands, the World Bank
and the WTO organized a conference on “Closing
the Gender Gaps: The Buenos Aires Declaration
on Women and Trade at Year One”. At the 11th
Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires, WTO
members joined for the first time a collective
initiative to increase the participation of women in
trade (see page 53).
The one-year-on conference provided a forum for
discussion on innovative research on gender and
trade, with specific application to the challenges
of women traders and entrepreneurs in developing
countries. It highlighted the need for reliable data
and statistics to enable a sound analysis of the
gender effects of trade policies.
Another research project was launched by
the WTO on how trade-related development
decisions can improve women’s engagement in
the global economy. The first part of this research
focuses on how market access instruments,
notably Generalized System of Preference
(GSP) schemes, can help to foster women’s
empowerment. It looks at the examples of the
European Union’s Everything but Arms scheme

with Bangladesh and the US African Growth and
Opportunity Act (AGOA) scheme with Kenya.
This study will be published in 2019.
The WTO Secretariat has started to include
gender issues in some of its reports and
publications, such as in the World Trade Statistical
Review 2018 and its G20 and WTO-wide trade
monitoring reports. Some WTO members have
been using their trade policy reviews to highlight
policy developments that contribute to women’s
empowerment (see page 102).

International Women’s Day 2018
The WTO marked International Women’s Day on
8 March 2018 with a week of events, including
exhibitions, debates and training sessions on issues
such as female leadership and organizational
culture. Speakers at a high-level event – “Delivering
opportunities for women” – said more must be
done to unlock trade’s potential to deliver a more
inclusive society. Opening the event, DG Azevêdo
underlined the role of trade and the WTO and the
work still to be done to overcome challenges, such
as discriminatory laws, poor working conditions and
lack of access to education and training, which can
hinder women’s full participation in trade.

Training module on trade
and gender
The WTO’s technical assistance plan 2018-19
includes a section on gender, giving a mandate
to the WTO to develop a training module on
trade and gender. The objective is to focus on
“trade policy with the aim to raise awareness
and enhance the aptitude of policy makers to
incorporate gender considerations in their analysis
and trade policy development or negotiations”.
The WTO’s Trade and Gender Focal Point has
developed a training module, which looks at the
intersection between trade and women’s economic
empowerment. It examines this question in the
context of WTO rules and members’ different
perspectives on how these rules can be reflected
in trade policies. The module contains concrete
examples, case stories and WTO members’ best
practices. It will be used as a training tool in various
technical assistance activities.

Trade and women’s empowerment
www.wto.org/womenandtrade

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

113

5

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

D i s pute s et t lement
Dispute settlement activity in 2018

116

Appellate Body

123

Background on
dispute settlement
WTO members bring
disputes to the WTO
if they think their rights
under trade agreements
are being infringed.
Settling disputes is the
responsibility of the
Dispute Settlement Body.

114

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

6
Sunanta Kangvalkulkij (right)
succeeded Junichi Ihara as Chair of
the Dispute Settlement Body in 2018.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

115

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

D i s pute s et t lement ac t iv it y i n 2018
•	 WTO members initiated 38 new disputes in 2018, more than twice the number of 2017.
•	 Twenty-eight dispute settlement reports and decisions covering 22 matters were circulated
in 2018.
•	 On average, 42 proceedings were ongoing each month, nearly 10 per cent more than the
previous year.
•	 WTO members remained divided on the selection process to appoint replacements for four
of the seven members of the Appellate Body.
•	 A new book marked the 70th anniversary of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), covering the evolution of GATT dispute settlement.

Background on
dispute settlement
activity
WTO members bring
disputes if they think their
rights are being infringed
with respect to any
agreement contained in the
Final Act of the Uruguay
Round that is subject to the
Understanding on Rules and
Procedures Governing the
Settlement of Disputes. The
General Council convenes
as the Dispute Settlement
Body (DSB) to deal with
disputes. The DSB has
authority to establish dispute
settlement panels, adopt
panel and Appellate Body
reports, maintain surveillance
over the implementation
of recommendations and
rulings, and authorize
suspension of obligations in
the event of non-compliance
with those recommendations
and rulings.

High number of new disputes
There were 38 new consultation requests in
2018. This is the highest number since 1998 and
one of the highest since the entry into force of
the WTO in 1995 (see Figure 1).
Twenty-two WTO members initiated these
new disputes concerning a wide range of issues
(see Table 1).
By the end of 2018, a total of 573 disputes had
been initiated under the WTO dispute settlement
procedures since its entry into force in 1995.

Sustained levels of dispute
settlement activity

Figure 1: Requests for consultations,
1995 to 2018
1995

25

1996

39

1997

50

1998

41

1999

30

2000

34

2001

23

2002

If the parties to a dispute are unable to resolve
their differences through consultations, the
complainant can ask for a dispute settlement
panel to be established by the Dispute Settlement
Body (DSB). Among the 38 disputes initiated in
2018, 24 led to the establishment of a panel by the
end of 2018.

2003

In total, the DSB established panels in 33
disputes in 2018 (see Tables 2, 3 and 4). Five
of these panels were established in respect
of so-called “compliance” proceedings to
determine whether parties have complied with
previous recommendations and rulings. Finally,
four requests for arbitration were made, and one
arbitration was reactivated, on the permissible
level of retaliation (as a temporary remedy in the
event of non-compliance).

2008

37
26

2004

19

2005

12

2006

20

2007

13
19

2009

14

2010

17

2011

8

2012

27

2013

20

2014

14

2015

13

2016

17

2017

17

2018

38
0

116

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

50

55

60

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

Table 1: Disputes initiated in 2018 (requests for consultations)
Title

Dispute
number

Complainant

Date of initial
request

Status on 31 December 2018

US – Fish Fillets (Viet Nam)

DS536

Viet Nam

8 January 2018

Panel composed

Canada – Measures Governing the Sale of Wine

DS537

Australia

12 January 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Pakistan – BOPP Film (UAE)

DS538

United Arab Emirates

24 January 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Facts Available

DS539

Korea, Republic of

14 February 2018

Panel composed

US – Pangasius Seafood Products

DS540

Viet Nam

22 February 2018

In consultations

India – Export Related Measures

DS541

United States

14 March 2018

Panel composed

China – Intellectual Property Rights II

DS542

United States

23 March 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Tariff Measures on Certain Goods (China)

DS543

China

4 April 2018

First request for establishment of a panel

US – Steel and Aluminium Products

DS544

China

5 April 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Safeguard Measure on PV Products

DS545

Korea, Republic of

14 April 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Safeguard Measure on Washers

DS546

Korea, Republic of

14 May 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (India)

DS547

India

18 May 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Steel and Aluminium (EU)

DS548

European Union

1 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

China – Transfer of Technology

DS549

European Union

1 June 2018

In consultations

US – Steel and Aluminium Products

DS550

Canada

1 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Mexico)

DS551

Mexico

5 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Norway)

DS552

Norway

12 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Korea – Stainless Steel Bars

DS553

Japan

18 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Russia)

DS554

Russian Federation

29 June 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Morocco – School Exercise Books (Tunisia)

DS555

Tunisia

5 July 2018

In consultations

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Switzerland)

DS556

Switzerland

9 July 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Canada – Additional Duties (US)

DS557

United States

16 July 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

China – Additional Duties

DS558

United States

16 July 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

EU – Additional Duties (US)

DS559

United States

16 July 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Mexico – Additional Duties

DS560

United States

16 July 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Turkey – Additional Duties (US)

DS561

United States

16 July 2018

First request for establishment of a panel

US – Safeguard Measure on PV Products (China)

DS562

China

14 August 2018

In consultations

US – Renewable Energy

DS563

China

14 August 2018

In consultations

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Turkey)

DS564

Turkey

15 August 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

US – Tariff Measures on Certain Goods (China) II

DS565

China

23 August 2018

In consultations

Russia – Additional Duties (US)

DS566

United States

27 August 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

Saudi Arabia – Protection of IPR

DS567

Qatar

1 October 2018

Panel established, panel composition ongoing

China – Imports of Sugar

DS568

Brazil

16 October 2018

In consultations

Armenia – Steel Pipes

DS569

Ukraine

17 October 2018

In consultations

Kyrgyz Republic – Steel Pipes

DS570

Ukraine

17 October 2018

In consultations

Korea – Commercial Vessels (Japan)

DS571

Japan

6 November 2018

In consultations

Peru – Biodiesel (Argentina)

DS572

Argentina

29 November 2018

In consultations

Turkey – Air Conditioning Machines (Thailand)

DS573

Thailand

5 December 2018

In consultations

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

6

117

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
Table 2: Original panels established in 2018

118

Title

Dispute
number

Complainant

Date established

US – Softwood Lumber

DS533

Canada

9 April 2018

US – Differential Pricing Methodology

DS534

Canada

9 April 2018

Australia – A4 Copy Paper

DS529

Indonesia

27 April 2018

India – Export Related Measures

DS541

United States

28 May 2018

US – Facts Available

DS539

Republic of Korea

28 May 2018

US – Fish Fillets (Viet Nam)

DS536

Viet Nam

20 July 2018

US – Safeguard Measures on Washers

DS546

Republic of Korea

26 September 2018

US – Safeguard Measures on PV Products

DS545

Republic of Korea

26 September 2018

Canada – Measures Governing the Sale of Wine

DS537

Australia

26 September 2018

Pakistan – BOPP Film (UAE)

DS538

United Arab Emirates

29 October 2018

Korea – Stainless Steel Bars

DS553

Japan

29 October 2018

China – Intellectual Property Rights II

DS542

United States

29 October 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (China)

DS544

China

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (EU)

DS548

European Union

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Canada)

DS550

Canada

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Mexico)

DS551

Mexico

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Norway)

DS552

Norway

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Russia)

DS554

Russia

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (India)

DS547

India

21 November 2018

Canada – Additional Duties (US)

DS557

United States

21 November 2018

China – Additional Duties (US)

DS558

United States

21 November 2018

EU – Additional Duties (US)

DS559

United States

21 November 2018

Mexico – Additional Duties (US)

DS560

United States

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Turkey)

DS564

United States

21 November 2018

US – Steel and Aluminium Products (Switzerland)

DS556

Switzerland

4 December 2018

Costa Rica – Avocados (Mexico)

DS524

Mexico

18 December 2018

Russia – Additional Duties (US)

DS566

United States

18 December 2018

Saudi Arabia – Protection of IPR

DS567

Qatar

18 December 2018

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

Table 3: Compliance panels established in 2018
Title

Dispute
number

Complainant

Date established

India – Solar Cells (Article 21.5 – India)

DS456

India

28 February 2018

Thailand – Cigarettes (Article 21.5 – Philippines II)

DS371

Philippines

27 March 2018

US – Carbon Steel (India) (Article 21.5 – India)

DS436

India

27 April 2018

EC and certain member States – Large Civil Aircraft
(Article 21.5 – EU)

DS316

European Union

27 August 2018

Russia – Pigs (EU) (Article 21.5 – EU)

DS475

European Union

21 November 2018

Table 4: Recourse to arbitration on the suspension of obligations in 2018
Title

Dispute
number

Recourse to arbitration

India – Solar Cells

DS456

3 January 2018

US – Washing Machines

DS464

19 January 2018

EC and certain member states – Large Civil Aircraft

DS316

13 July 2018*

Indonesia – Import Licensing Regimes

DS478

14 August 2018

US – Anti-Dumping Methodologies (China)

DS471

19 September 2018

*T
 hese proceedings were initiated in 2011 and suspended in 2012 at the request of the parties. In July 2018, the United States
requested the arbitrator to resume its work.

Twelve appeals were also ongoing as of the end of 2018 (see page 126).

Figure 2: T
 otal number of disputes initiated and panels established, 1995 to 2018

50

6

40

30

20

10

0

1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018

Requests for consultations

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

Panels established

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

119

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Reports and decisions
In total, 28 dispute settlement reports and
decisions were circulated in 2018 concerning
22 distinct matters. This included 14 “original”
panel reports (concerning 11 distinct matters),
four compliance panel reports, nine Appellate
Body reports (concerning six distinct matters),

and one arbitral decision on the reasonable
period of time for implementation of
the DSB’s recommendations and rulings
(see Tables 5 and 6).
The DSB adopted 11 panel reports in 2018
(including two compliance panel reports),
and five Appellate Body reports.

Table 5: Original panel reports circulated and/or adopted in 2018
Title

Document
symbol

Date
circulated

Date adopted by the
DSB (if applicable)

Russia – Commercial Vehicles*

DS479

27 January 2017

9 April 2018

EU — PET (Pakistan)*

DS486

6 July 2017

28 May 2018

Indonesia – Iron or Steel Products (Chinese Taipei)*

DS490

18 August 2017

27 August 2018

Indonesia – Iron or Steel Products (Viet Nam)*

DS496

18 August 2017

27 August 2018

US — OCTG (Korea)

DS488

14 November 2017

12 January 2018

US – Coated Paper (Indonesia)

DS491

6 December 2017

12 January 2018

EU – Biodiesel (Indonesia)

DS480

25 January 2018

28 February 2018

Korea – Radionuclides (Japan)

DS495

22 February 2018

Appealed

Korea – Pneumatic Valves (Japan)

DS504

12 April 2018

Appealed

Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging (Honduras)

DS435

28 June 2018

Appealed

Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging
(Dominican Republic)

DS441

28 June 2018

Appealed

Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging (Cuba)

DS458

28 June 2018

27 August 2018

Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging (Indonesia)

DS467

28 June 2018

27 August 2018

US – Supercalendered Paper

DS505

5 July 2018

Appealed

Ukraine – Ammonium Nitrate

DS493

20 July 2018

Appealed

Russia – Railway Equipment

DS499

30 July 2018

Appealed

EU – Energy Package

DS476

10 August 2018

Appealed

Morocco – Hot-Rolled Steel (Turkey)

DS513

31 October 2018

Appealed

India – Iron and Steel Products

DS518

6 November 2018

Appealed

US – Pipes and Tubes (Turkey)

DS523

18 December 2018

Appealed

* Panel report adopted as modified or upheld by the Appellate Body following an appeal.

Table 6: Compliance panel reports adopted and/or circulated in 2018
Title

Document
symbol

Date
circulated

Date adopted by the
DSB (if applicable)

EC and certain member states – Large Civil Aircraft
(Article 21.5 – US)*

DS316

22 September 2016

28 May 2018

China – Broiler Products (Article 21.5 – US)

DS427

18 January 2018

28 February 2018

US – Countervailing Measures (China)
(Article 21.5 – China)

DS437

21 March 2018

Appealed

Colombia – Textiles (Article 21.5 – Colombia) /
Colombia – Textiles (Article 21.5 – Panama)

DS461

5 October 2018

Appealed

Thailand – Cigarettes (Philippines)
(Article 21.5 – Philippines)

DS371

12 November 2018

Appealed

* Panel report adopted as modified or upheld by the relevant Appellate Body report.

120

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

WTO and Appellate Body
secretariats
The Legal Affairs Division and the Rules Division
of the WTO Secretariat service dispute settlement
panel and arbitral proceedings. Depending on the
subject matter of the disputes, relevant divisions
in the Secretariat also contribute their expertise in
their areas of specialization. Appeals are serviced
by the Appellate Body Secretariat (see page 123).
Other parts of the WTO Secretariat, such as
translation services, also play an important role
in dispute settlement activities, as the often
voluminous and complex reports of panels,
arbitrators and the Appellate Body are circulated
to members and made public only when they are
available in the three working languages of the
WTO (English, French and Spanish).
Due to the increase in dispute settlement activity
in recent years, the number of posts in the legal
divisions has grown to adjust to the additional
workload.

Appellate Body members
WTO members remained divided on the selection
process to appoint replacements for four of the
seven members of the Appellate Body, whose
term in office has expired (see page 123).

Intensity of activities
Figure 3 shows the intensity of dispute settlement
activities since the inception of the WTO in 1995.
It displays how many panel, appellate and arbitral
proceedings were ongoing each month, on
average, every year from 1995 to 2018. It reveals
that the level of activity in dispute settlement
proceedings has been steadily increasing in
recent years, including in 2018.
For the purposes of Figure 3, proceedings are
counted as a single instance where they relate
to the same matter, regardless of the number of
complainants involved or the level of complexity
of the proceedings. This provides a quantitative
indication of the number of distinct issues that are
subject to “active” dispute settlement proceedings
(ongoing panel, arbitral or appellate proceedings).
It does not seek to reflect the relative complexity
of different proceedings, which has also tended
to increase over time.

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

Figure 3: Average of monthly active
disputes, 1995-2018
1995

2

1996

8

1997

14

1998

19

1999

27

2000

25

2001

18

2002

20

2003

20

2004

23

2005

27

2006

23

2007

24

2008

21

2009

15

2010

21

2011

19

2012

18

2013

21

2014

29

2015

32

2016

32

2017

39

2018

42
0

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

Average monthly total

6

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

121

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
As noted by DG Azevêdo in his foreword to the
book, “the considerable evolution of GATT dispute
settlement is a testament to the resilience and
flexibility of the multilateral trading system, as well
as the increasing importance of the rule of law in
international trade”.

Competition on WTO law
The European Law Students’ Association (ELSA)
Moot Court Competition on WTO Law took place
in 2018, marking its 16th year. Five regional rounds
took place in Naples, Wroclaw, Washington D.C.,
Bangkok and Nairobi. The competition continues
to grow, with over 90 schools from all over the
globe participating.
The final round was hosted jointly by the WTO
and the Graduate Institute of International and
Development Studies in Geneva from 19 to 23
June. Students had the opportunity to compete
before WTO Secretariat officials, current
and former Appellate Body members, leading
academics, trade lawyers and delegates, who
served as panellists in the mock dispute.
A new publication
was launched
to mark the 70th
anniversary of
the GATT.

New publication on evolution of
GATT dispute settlement
To mark the 70th anniversary of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the WTO
issued a new publication covering the evolution
of GATT dispute settlement decisions and
procedures from 1948 to 1995.

In 2018 the competition’s name was changed.
It will be known as the John H. Jackson Moot
Court Competition in memory of the academic
who was a founding figure in international trade
law. The competition will continue to be organized
by ELSA International.

The publication – “GATT Disputes: 1948-1995”
– represents the first comprehensive effort to
consolidate information on more than 300 disputes
brought by contracting parties during the GATT
period. It provides factual and verified information
from multiple sources, including public and internal
records held by the GATT/WTO secretariats.
The publication consists of two volumes. The
first volume contains an overview of GATT
dispute settlement, a one-page case summary
for each dispute, and annexes listing disputes
by contracting party, agreement and provisions
at issue. The second volume compiles for
the first time all GATT dispute settlement
procedures and a selection of other key
documents of historical interest.

The final round
of the Moot Court
Competition on WTO
Law was held at
WTO headquarters.

122

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Dispute settlement activity in 2018
www.wto.org/disputes

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

App el late Body
•	 The Appellate Body had a busy year, with 11 appeal proceedings initiated and nine
reports circulated.
•	 Appellate Body member Shree Baboo Chekitan Servansing’s term expired on 30 September
2018. Four Appellate Body positions remained vacant at the end of 2018.
•	 A facilitator has been appointed to help the General Council resolve differences among
WTO members on the functioning of the Appellate Body.
•	 The WTO’s dispute settlement system faces challenges to its legitimacy and very existence,
Appellate Body Chair warns.

Background on the
Appellate Body
Parties to a dispute can
appeal a panel’s ruling.
Each appeal is heard
by three members of an
Appellate Body comprising
persons of recognized
authority and unaffiliated
with any government. Each
member is appointed for
a term of four years, with
the possibility of being
appointed for one further
four-year term. Three
members of the Appellate
Body hear an appeal of a
panel’s ruling. The appeal
is limited to issues of law
covered in the panel report
and legal interpretations
developed by the panel.

Appeals
Twelve panel reports concerning 11 matters were
appealed in 2018 (see Figure 4 and Table 7).
The Appellate Body completed its work on one
complex appeal concerning trade in large civil
aircraft filed in 2016, and work on another such
appeal filed in 2017 began in 2018.
Nine Appellate Body reports concerning six
matters were circulated in 2018 (see Figure
5 and Table 8). In addressing these appeals,
the Appellate Body addressed issues arising
under the Anti Dumping Agreement, the
Technical Barriers to Trade Agreement, the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994,
the Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
Agreement, the Safeguards Agreement and
the Enabling Clause. Since its inception, the
Appellate Body has circulated 159 reports.
The four vacancies on the Appellate Body are
leading to delays in the resolution of disputes.
At the end of 2018, a total of seven proceedings
were on hold while five proceedings were active.

6

Four vacancies in
the Appellate Body
Shree Baboo Chekitan Servansing of
Mauritius completed his first term of office on
30 September 2018. There was no consensus
among members to appoint him for a second
term. He continued to complete the appeals
to which he had been assigned.
Members were unable to agree by the end of
2018 on the appointment of Appellate Body
members to fill four vacancies.
Ujal Singh Bhatia
chaired the
Appellate Body
in 2018.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

123

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
As of 31 December 2018, the three Appellate
Body members were:

Appellate Body members

• Ujal Singh Bhatia (India) (2011-2019),
Chair of the Appellate Body in 2018
• Thomas R. Graham (United States) (2011-2019)
• Hong Zhao (China) (2016-2020)

Impasse requires
urgent resolution
The impasse in the dispute settlement mechanism,
particularly in the Appellate Body, was a recurrent
theme in WTO members’ discussions at Heads
of Delegation (HoDs) meetings at the WTO.
Many members expressed serious systemic
concerns with the lengthy delays in launching a
selection process to appoint new Appellate Body
members. Concerns about the functioning of the
Appellate Body were also brought to the fore.
Several members pointed out that this was the
priority issue that required urgent resolution to
maintain this essential pillar of the organization
that underpinned the whole trading system.

Ujal Singh Bhatia, Chair of the Appellate Body
in 2018

DG Azevêdo provided regular updates on his
own efforts. He urged WTO members to engage
actively. Some members had been thinking about
ideas that could overcome the impasse or help
address the situation as the impasse persisted,
he said. The Director-General encouraged all
members to seriously consider these ideas and
put forward their own. He warned that if members
did not find a solution, the multilateral trading
system could be severely compromised.
By the year’s end, while no breakthroughs were
achieved, WTO members had started engaging
more actively by putting forward ideas and
proposals. Many said that it was important to
expedite this discussion and find ways forward
to end the impasse. In December, the General
Council agreed to launch an informal process
to overcome the impasse (see page 59).
Ambassador David Walker of New Zealand was
appointed as facilitator to assist General Council
Chair Ambassador Junichi Ihara in working with
WTO members to resolve differences on the
functioning of the Appellate Body.

Thomas R. Graham

Hong Zhao

124

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

Figure 4: Number of notices of appeal filed, 1995 to 2018

13

13

13
12

10
8

8

2016

8

2015

9

9

9

8

7
6

6
5

5

5

4

4
3

3
2

2018

2017

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

1996

1995

0

Table 7: Appeals filed and pending in 2018

a
b

Panel report appealed

Date of
appeal

Appellanta

Document
symbol

Other
appellantb

Document
symbol

US – Large Civil Aircraft (2nd complaint)
(Article 21.5 – EU)

9 April 2018

Korea

WT/DS495/8

Japan

WT/DS495/9

Korea – Radionuclides

27 April 2018

United States

WT/DS437/24

China

WT/DS437/25

US – Countervailing Measures (China)
(Article 21.5 – China)

28 May 2018

Japan

WT/DS504/5

Korea

WT/DS504/6

Korea – Pneumatic Valves (Japan)

19 July 2018

Honduras

WT/DS435/23

-

-

Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging (Honduras) /
Australia – Tobacco Plain Packaging (Dominican Republic)

23 August 2018

Dominican
Republic

WT/DS441/23

-

-

Ukraine – Ammonium Nitrate

23 August 2018

Ukraine

WT/DS493/6

-

-

Russia – Railway Equipment

27 August 2018

Ukraine

WT/DS499/6

Russia

WT/DS499/7

US – Supercalendered Paper

27 August 2018

United States

WT/DS505/6

-

-

EU – Energy Package

21 September 2018

European Union

WT/DS476/6

Russia

WT/DS476/7

Colombia – Textiles (Article 21.5 – Colombia) / Colombia –
Textiles (Article 21.5 – Panama)

20 November 2018

Panama

WT/DS461/28

Colombia

WT/DS461/29

Morocco – Hot-Rolled Steel (Turkey)

20 November 2018

Morocco

WT/DS513/5

Turkey

WT/DS513/6

India – Iron and Steel Products

14 December 2018

India

WT/DS518/8

Japan

WT/DS518/9

Pursuant to Rule 20(1) of the Working Procedures.
Pursuant to Rule 23(1) of the Working Procedures.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

125

6

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
Figure 5: Number of Appellate Body reports circulated, 1995 to 2018*

12
10

10
9

9

9

9

9
8

8

7

7
6

6

6

6

5

6

5
4
2

2
1

2018

2017

2016

2015

2014

2013

2012

2011

2010

2009

2008

2007

2006

2005

2004

2003

2002

2001

2000

1999

1998

1997

1996

1995

0

* Some Appellate Body reports were issued as a single document covering two or more reports.

Table 8: Appellate Body reports circulated in 2018
Case

Document symbol

Date circulated

Date adopted by the DSB

Russia – Commercial Vehicles

WT/DS479/AB/R

22 March 2018

9 April 2018

EC and certain member States – Large Civil Aircraft
(Article 21.5 – US)

WT/DS316/AB/RW

15 May 2018

28 May 2018

EU – PET (Pakistan)

WT/DS486/AB/R

16 May 2018

28 May 2018

Indonesia – Iron or Steel Products*
(Complaints by Viet Nam and Chinese Taipei)

WT/DS490/AB/R
WT/DS496/AB/R

15 August 2018

27 August 2018

Brazil – Taxation*
(Complaints by the European Union and Japan)

WT/DS472/AB/R
WT/DS497/AB/R

13 December 2018

11 January 2019

US – Tuna II (Mexico) (Article 21.5 – US) /
US – Tuna II (Mexico) (Article 21.5 – Mexico II)*

WT/DS381/AB/RW/USA
WT/DS381/AB/RW2

14 December 2018

11 January 2019

* In these matters, Appellate Body reports bearing two separate document symbols were issued.

126

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

Challenges
In June 2018, Appellate Body Chair Ujal Singh
Bhatia warned that the dispute settlement system
faces increasingly complex disputes while
fundamental questions have been raised about the
way the WTO’s dispute settlement procedures
should be used. He highlighted that the impasse

in the process for appointing Appellate Body
members is debilitating the Appellate Body,
leading to significant delays in dispute resolution.
The Chair encouraged WTO members to engage
in a reasoned and systemic dialogue that keeps
at the forefront the enormous value of an effective
system and the consequences of its paralysis.

David Walker
was appointed as
facilitator to help
WTO members
resolve differences
on the functioning of
the Appellate Body.

6

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

127

-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

Supp or t i ng development a nd
bu i ld i ng t rade c apac it y
Trade and development
Least-developed countries

132

Small economies

134

Aid for Trade

135

Enhanced Integrated Framework

137

Standards and Trade Development Facility

139

Technical cooperation and training

141

Background
on supporting
development
and building
trade capacity
The WTO aims to help
developing countries
build their trade capacity
and allows them a longer
time to implement trade
agreements. Hundreds
of training courses are
organized each year for
officials from developing
countries.

128

130

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

7
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

129

-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

T rade a nd development
•	 The Committee continued its work on the link between trade and development.
•	 Topics discussed by the Committee included issues relating to duty-free and quota-free
market access for least-developed countries and the monitoring mechanism for special
and differential measures.
•	 A new WTO publication shows how trade can help accelerate progress in meeting the
Sustainable Development Goals.

Background on trade
and development
The Committee on Trade
and Development is the focal
point for the coordination
of all work on trade and
development issues in the
WTO. The Committee deals
with a variety of issues,
including all developmental
issues, technical cooperation
and training, and notifications
under the Enabling Clause,
which allows developed
countries to give more
favourable treatment to
developing countries.

The Committee on Trade and Development
continued work on the link between trade and
development, as instructed by trade ministers.
They considered possible future work for
the Committee on electronic commerce and
continued discussion of duty-free and quota-free
market access for least-developed countries
(LDCs). They also discussed the monitoring
mechanism for special and differential treatment
(S&D) for developing countries in WTO
agreements and decisions.
Chad, on behalf of the LDC Group, reminded
WTO members of the group’s proposal on
draft terms of reference for a WTO Secretariat
study on DFQF market access for LDCs,
submitted in 2016.
The WTO Secretariat prepared a report for
the Committee on the implementation of S&D
provisions in WTO agreements and decisions.
Such provisions range from increasing trade
opportunities for developing countries and
LDCs to granting longer transition periods for
the implementation of WTO agreements and
providing technical assistance.

The Committee held two dedicated sessions
on the monitoring mechanism, which acts as a
focal point to review the implementation of S&D.
Ministers declared in at the 2013 Ministerial
Conference in Bali that monitoring should be
based on written inputs or submissions. However,
no written submissions had yet been received.
Delegations differ on whether to proceed with
a review of the mechanism or wait until there is
concrete experience of its use.
At a meeting of the Committee in November,
WTO members expressed regret at the lack
of submissions regarding the monitoring
mechanism. The Chair, Ambassador Diego
Aulestia of Ecuador, urged members to come
to a common understanding on the way forward
for the mechanism.
In a session dedicated to regional trade agreements
(see page 99), the Committee considered the
Partial Scope Agreement between Panama
and the Dominican Republic, and the Arab
Mediterranean Free Trade Agreement (Agadir
Agreement) between Egypt, Jordan, Morocco
and Tunisia. The Committee also adopted a
template for notifying changes to an existing
regional trade agreement.
A session dedicated to preferential trade
arrangements allowed members to consider
the US trade preferences for Nepal.
The Committee received a report on the 52nd
session of the Joint Advisory Group (JAG) of
the International Trade Centre. The JAG is the
policy-making body of the trade promotion agency
for developing countries jointly sponsored by the
WTO and the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD).

130

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Trade and Development
www.wto.org/development

-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

Trade and the SDGs

Market access

In May, the WTO launched a publication on the
role of trade in advancing the UN 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development and its Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs). The new publication
— “Mainstreaming Trade to Attain the Sustainable
Development Goals” — looks at how international
trade can help countries gain access to new markets
and new investments, boost growth, raise living
standards and promote sustainable development.

The Committee received notifications under
the Enabling Clause concerning an agreement
between MERCOSUR (the Southern Common
Market) and Egypt, and an agreement between
Ecuador and El Salvador. Discussion continued on
the notification under the Enabling Clause made in
2017 by Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Mexico, Paraguay
and Uruguay, members of the Latin American
Integration Association.

It outlines a number of steps to help accelerate
progress in achieving the SDGs, including
embedding trade policies in governments’ national
development plans. It also suggests action to
further lower the costs of world trade, notably
by implementing the WTO’s Trade Facilitation
Agreement (see page 86), which establishes
procedures for streamlining the flow of goods
among WTO members.

Technical cooperation and training

“Combined with the right financing and capacitybuilding assistance, trade is a vital catalyst
for development. This is demonstrated by the
experience of recent decades,” DG Azevêdo said
on launching the report at the WTO Public Forum
(see page 150) in October.

The annual performance report on technical
assistance and training for 2017 was presented to
the Committee. The WTO Secretariat undertook
261 technical assistance activities in 2017 and
participated in several other related activities.
Overall, 18,200 participants were trained, down
from 18,600 the year before. Close to two-thirds
of the participants in WTO technical assistance
activities were trained online (see page 141).

A new WTO
publication on trade
and the SDGs was
launched at the
Public Forum.

7

Trade and Development
www.wto.org/development

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

131

-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

L ea s t- develop ed c ou nt r ie s
•	 Least-developed countries (LDCs) highlighted the need for better market access, including
through implementing ministerial decisions on duty-free, quota-free market access and
preferential rules of origin.
•	 LDC exports grew 13 per cent, reversing a three-year negative trend. But the LDC share of
world exports remains low.
•	 Twelve countries are expected to graduate from the LDC category in the near future.

Background on
least-developed
countries (LDCs)
The Sub-Committee on
LDCs, established in July
1995 as a subsidiary body
to the Committee on Trade
and Development, focuses
its work on an agreed WTO
work programme for LDCs.
This programme looks at a
number of systemic issues
of importance to LDCs in the
multilateral trading system,
such as market access,
technical assistance and
accession to the WTO.

Market access for LDCs
LDCs highlighted their need for improved market
access, which continued to be a central element
of discussions in the Sub-Committee on LDCs.
They also called for progress in implementing a
ministerial decision on preferential rules of origin
for LDCs (see page 79).
The WTO Secretariat presented its yearly report
on trends in LDC trade and market access and
briefed the Sub-Committee on developments in
preferential rules of origin in the Committee on
Rules of Origin.
After three years of negative growth, LDCs’
exports of goods and services increased by 13
per cent in 2017, thanks largely to increases in the
prices of fuels and minerals. LDCs’ share of world
exports increased slightly from 0.88 per cent in
2016 to 0.90 per cent in 2017. But their trade
deficit remained substantial at US$ 93 billion in
2017, three times higher than in 2010. Tourism
was one bright spot, with the LDC share of world
travel exports increasing from 1.1 per cent in 2010
to 1.4 per cent in 2017.
The LDCs expressed concern about their low
share (0.5 per cent) of world manufacturing
exports and regretted that they are far from
doubling their share of world exports of goods
and services by 2020, as seen by the Istanbul
Programme of Action for the LDCs and the
Sustainable Development Goals.
LDCs urged preference-granting members to
improve duty-free, quota-free (DFQF) market
access conditions for products from LDCs
and to speed implementation of the Nairobi
ministerial decision to make it easier for LDC

132

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

exports to qualify for preferential access. The
European Union asked LDCs that still had to
fulfil the prerequisites for this access to apply the
Registered Exporter system of certification for
origin of goods relating to the EU’s Generalized
System of Preferences scheme.
DG Azevêdo told a meeting of the LDC Group
in June: “I think you will need to develop specific
proposals especially on implementation of DFQF
market access and engage directly with the
relevant stakeholders.”
“The strong progress we saw after Hong Kong
and after Bali has slowed,” the DG said, referring
to the 2005 and 2013 ministerial conferences.
DG Azevêdo also referred to the LDC services
waiver (see page 88). He said LDCs should
consider submitting specific recommendations on
measures that would support their services sector.

Technical assistance and
capacity building
The WTO continued to attach priority to LDCs
in the delivery of technical assistance (see page
141). The Sub-Committee monitors the progress
of technical assistance provided to LDCs as well
as other capacity building initiatives.
In 2017, LDCs were associated with approximately
60 per cent of all activities. LDCs, especially
from Africa, were among the biggest users of
e-learning courses, accounting for close to onethird of participants. The delivery of technical
assistance in the Asia-Pacific region has been
significantly improved through close collaboration
with UNESCAP, the United Nations Social
Commission for Asia and the Pacific.

Least-developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs

-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

LDC exports
of goods and
services increased
by 13 per cent,
largely due to higher
prices in fuels and
minerals.

The Executive Secretariat of the Enhanced
Integrated Framework (EIF), which assists
LDCs in integrating trade into their national
development strategies, updated WTO members
on the EIF programme (see page 137). LDCs
highlighted the positive impact of EIF projects
and called on development partners to continue
supporting the EIF.
The Secretariat of the Standards and Trade
Development Facility (STDF) noted that LDCs
benefited from close to 60 per cent of STDF
project funds (see page 139). LDCs called on
donors to increase their contributions to the
STDF. The Advisory Centre on WTO Law briefed
WTO members on the free legal advice, training
and WTO dispute settlement support provided
to LDCs.

Accession of LDCs to the WTO
The WTO Secretariat briefed WTO members
on the state of play in working parties on LDC
accessions and experience-sharing among
acceding LDCs (see page 28). Eight LDCs are
in the process of acceding to the WTO (Bhutan,
Comoros, Ethiopia, São Tomé and Príncipe,
Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan and Timor-Leste).
LDCs emphasized the importance of special
and differential treatment in the LDC accession
process in line with the LDC accession guidelines.

Least-developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs

LDC graduation
The Istanbul Programme of Action for LDCs
for 2011-20 aims to help LDCs graduate from
the LDC category. The Secretariat of the UN
Committee for Development Policy reported that
12 LDCs are expected to graduate in the near
future. The LDCs requested assistance from the
WTO to help graduating LDCs improve their
understanding of the trade-related implications
of graduation.

South-South dialogue on LDCs
and development
Under China’s LDCs and Accessions Programme,
the third South-South Dialogue on LDCs and
Development was held in Chavannes-deBogis, Switzerland, in December. It provided an
opportunity to discuss recent proposals on WTO
reform. The LDCs highlighted that discussions
at the WTO must remain inclusive and stressed
the need to further strengthen the development
dimension of the multilateral trading system.

7

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

133

-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

S m al l e c onom ie s
•	 WTO members discussed the challenges and opportunities for small, vulnerable
economies in reducing trade costs, particularly through trade facilitation.
•	 Possible solutions included reducing transport costs and increasing digital connectivity.
•	 The WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement is seen to be already bringing benefits.

Background on
small economies
The Committee on Trade
and Development – in
dedicated sessions –
oversees work on small
economies and monitors the
progress of proposals from
small, vulnerable economies
in the various WTO bodies
and negotiating groups.
Several small economies are
small island states.

The Committee on Trade and Development
held two dedicated sessions in 2018 on small,
vulnerable economies (SVEs). Work was based
on a 2017 WTO Secretariat report on the
challenges and opportunities small economies
face in their efforts to reduce trade costs,
particularly in the area of trade facilitation.
At their first session in June, participants
concentrated on the challenges – transportation
and logistics, border costs, such as red tape and
documentation, the cost of information, and tariff
and non-tariff barriers. Several SVEs shared their
experiences, underlining problems such as weak
IT capability, lack of coordination among public
agencies, poor infrastructure and lack of access to
trade financing.
The meeting in November focused on possible
solutions. Representatives from the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) and the Enhanced Integrated
Framework (see page 137) talked about policy

134

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

options that could reduce transport costs, such
as: improving links between national, regional
and intercontinental shipping services; regional
coordination in planning port investments to
accommodate vessels travelling on the same
route; and the modernization of seaports.
Digital connectivity and e-trade were also
mentioned as ways to reduce costs for SVEs.
Representatives from several SVEs explained
how their countries were tackling the challenges
identified by implementing the WTO’s Trade
Facilitation Agreement (TFA – see page 86)
and adopting digital solutions. Mongolia and
Mauritius underlined how the TFA will help to
reduce trade costs. Mauritius said that major
reforms to customs procedures have already
greatly reduced processing time for the
clearance of imported goods.
The SVE Group will prepare an outcome
document of the discussions held in 2018.

Small economies
www.wto.org/smalleconomies

-----------------------Page 136 End-----------------------

A id for T rade
•	 The Committee on Trade and Development adopted the 2018-19 Aid for Trade Work
Programme on “Supporting economic diversification and empowerment”.
•	 Global disbursements of Aid for Trade amounted to US$ 38.8 billion in 2016 (the latest year
on record) compared with US$ 40.3 billion in 2015.
•	 In 2018, the WTO and OECD launched a monitoring and evaluation exercise to review Aid
for Trade priorities.
•	 The next Aid for Trade Global Review is set to take place in Geneva on 3-5 July 2019.

Background on
Aid for Trade
Aid for Trade helps
developing countries, and
particularly least developed
countries, trade. The WTOled Aid for Trade initiative
encourages developing
country governments and
donors to recognize the
role that trade can play in
development. In particular,
the initiative seeks to mobilize
resources to address the
trade-related constraints
identified by developing and
least-developed countries.

Aid for Trade financing

Figure 1: Aid for Trade disbursements
by category (in US$ billion, 2016 prices)

From 2006 to 2016, the total amount of
Aid for Trade, a subset of official development
aid (ODA), disbursed to developing countries
reached US$ 342.3 billion. An additional
US$ 297.4 billion was provided as part of
other official flows, development finance that is
provided at non-concessional rates.

2006
-08*

The latest Aid for Trade data available from
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) show that global
disbursements amounted to US$ 38.8 billion
in 2016 compared with US$ 40.3 billion in
2015 (see Figures 1 and 2). Commitments
totalled US$ 51.0 billion in 2016, down from
US$ 55.2 billion in 2015.

10.01

2009
-11*

13.60

2012
-14*

15.26

1.11 0.01

20.05

18.16

2016

16.70
5k

0.96 0.04

15.25

2015

0

0.69 0.008

10.79

0.98 0.01

21.15
20.94

1.12 0.01

10k 15k 20k 25k 30k 35k 40k 45k

Building productive capacity
Economic infrastructure
Trade policy and regulations
Trade-related adjustment
Source: OECD‑CRS, Creditor Reporting System

Figure 2: Aid for Trade commitments and disbursements by category
(in US$ billion, 2016 prices)
60

55.2
50.5
47.3

50

40

37.1

37.3

40.1

39.6
32.9

30

20

10

0

25.2
19.3

6.6

38.5

38.8

7

26.7
24.1
17.7

16.8
8.8

40.3

29.9

27.9
21.1

34.2

36.6

51.0

49.5

10.5

4.8

5.7

6.7

2006

2007

2008

14.7

13.0

11.5

12.4

12.0

11.1

7.9

8.4

8.8

8.8

9.9

9.6

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

10.6

9.8

2015

2016

All country commitments
All country disbursements
LDC commitments
LDC disbursements

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

135

-----------------------Page 137 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity
Disbursements increased for Africa, America
and Europe (see Figure 3). Disbursements to
least‑developed countries (LDCs) slipped to
US$ 9.8 billion in 2016 from a high of US$ 10.6
billion in 2015 but were well above those of 2006
(US$ 4.8 billion). Increasingly, support for LDCs
is taking the form of loans rather than grants,
which raises debt sustainability concerns.

Aid for Trade Work Programme
The Committee on Trade and Development
adopted the 2018-2019 Aid for Trade Work
Programme entitled “Supporting Economic
Diversification and Empowerment for Inclusive,
Sustainable Development through Aid for Trade”.
The programme seeks to further develop analysis
on how trade can contribute to economic
diversification and empowerment, with a focus on
eliminating extreme poverty, particularly through
the effective participation of women and youth. It
also focuses on how Aid for Trade can contribute
by addressing trade capacity and trade-related
infrastructure constraints, including for micro,
small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs).
The programme will also further examine themes
that emerged in the 2017 Global Review.
Activities outlined in the programme will culminate in
the next Global Review, scheduled for 3-5 July 2019.
Global Reviews are attended by ministers of trade
and development, international financial institutions,
private sector firms and associations, development
research organizations and participants from the
trade and development community.
“Over the last 12 years, our Aid for Trade initiative
has been a powerful instrument for building
trade capacity and trade-related infrastructure in
developing and least-developed countries,” said
DG Azevêdo. “Our focus in 2019 will be how
trade can do even more to contribute to economic
diversification and empowerment.”

Committee on Trade
and Development
The Committee on Trade and Development held
three sessions on Aid for Trade. A number of
international organizations updated the Committee
on Aid for Trade activities, implementation and
resource mobilization. Participating organizations
included the Asian Development Bank, the African
Development Bank, the Enhanced Integrated
Framework (EIF) (see page 137), the International
Trade Centre, the Islamic International Trade Finance
Corporation, the Standards and Trade Development
Facility (see page 139) and the World Bank.

Thematic events
In November 2018, the WTO held two Aid for Trade
workshops. A first workshop highlighted trends
in economic diversification and industrialization.
It also discussed policy perspectives and national
experiences. A second workshop examined
economic diversification, with a focus on youth
and women. It presented various empowerment
programmes, initiatives and policies implemented
at international and regional levels.

Monitoring and evaluation
The latest OECD-WTO Aid for Trade monitoring
and evaluation exercise was launched in
November. It aims to review Aid for Trade priorities
and assess how Aid for Trade is supporting
economic diversification and contributing to the
empowerment of MSMEs, youth and women.
The data collected will be analysed and presented
in the next edition of “Aid for Trade at a Glance”,
a co‑publication with OECD. The report will be
launched at the 2019 Global Review of Aid for Trade.

Figure 3: Aid for Trade disbursements by region (in US$ million, 2016 prices)
1800
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
0
Africa

2006-08

2009-11

America

2012-14

Asia

2015

Europe

Oceania

Unspecified

2016

Source: OECD‑CRS, Creditor Reporting System

136

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade

-----------------------Page 138 End-----------------------

E n ha nc ed I nteg rated F ramework
•	 The Board of the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF) approved the strategic plan for
2019-22 – “Inclusive trade for better lives”.
•	 US$ 47 million in new funding was submitted to the EIF Board, with US$ 25 million from
the EIF Trust Fund and US$ 21.9 million from other sources. Sixty-four per cent of project
funding went to building trade capacity in least-developed countries (LDCs).
•	 The EIF hosted the first Global Forum for Inclusive Trade for LDCs at the WTO. Some 300
participants attended from more than 50 countries. Four LDCs issued a call to global
leaders to substantially increase support for trade development in the LDCs and for the EIF.
•	 The EIF intensified its work in the most fragile LDCs.

Background on the
Enhanced Integrated
Framework
The Enhanced Integrated
Framework (EIF) is the only
multilateral partnership
dedicated exclusively to
addressing the capacity
needs of least-developed
countries in their use of trade
as an engine for growth,
sustainable development
and poverty reduction. It
is supported by a multidonor trust fund. The EIF
partnership of 51 countries,
24 donors and eight partner
agencies work closely with
governments, development
organizations, civil society
and academia. The WTO
houses the Executive
Secretariat of the EIF.

New EIF strategic plan
The EIF’s strategic plan for 2019-2022, approved
in 2018, focuses on building “inclusive trade for
better lives”. The plan has two key goals. The
first is to generate improved trade environments
conducive to inclusive and sustainable growth
for LDCs. This includes improved policy and
regulatory frameworks for trade and investment,
strengthened institutional coordination for
trade development and investment, and
enhanced capacities for policy formulation
and implementation.
The second goal of the plan focuses on increased
exports and access to international markets for
LDCs, including through greater participation in
strategic value chains, improved technology use
in production and services for select value chains,
and support to EIF-assisted countries to leverage
additional investments for capacity-building.
In 2018, US$ 47 million in new funding for 42 new
projects was submitted to the EIF Board, US$ 25
million of it through the multi-donor EIF Trust Fund
and US$ 21.9 million from other sources. This
continues a recent trend; every EIF dollar invested
in LDC capacity-building since 2016 has resulted
in US$ 0.9 million of additional resources from
LDC governments and development partners.
The Trust Fund had US$ 116.8 million in donor
pledges, slightly up on US$ 115 million at
end-2017. By the end of 2018, US$ 44 million
had been allocated to ongoing projects and
operations, giving a disbursement rate of around
50 per cent (US$ 22.33 million).

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org

Overall, 64 per cent of the funding for projects
was allocated to building trade capacity in LDCs.
New projects included investing in Benin’s shea
butter value chain, supporting honey production
in Ethiopia, developing export competitiveness in
Lao People’s Democratic Republic and assisting
metrology development in Senegal.
Ongoing projects are delivering results. EIF
supported trade promotion in Malawi has resulted
in US$ 47 million of new agribusiness exports, for
example. In 2018, over 1,600 smallholder farmers
received key skills for improving production
and more than 300 micro, small and mediumsized enterprises (MSMEs) and 125 producer
associations received training and support.
Ensuring institutional ability to implement effective
trade and development strategies remains a
crucial part of EIF work. EIF national structures
coordinate Aid for Trade (see page 135) activities
and provide a consultative mechanism between
the government and relevant stakeholders. In
2018, 35 per cent of project resources was
targeted at this area, resulting in more than 400
individuals and 125 associations increasing
their awareness of trade-related issues. These
structures are embedded in government
structures in at least 16 LDCs.

Global Forum
In June 2018, the EIF hosted the first Global
Forum on Inclusive Trade for LDCs at the WTO.
The forum resulted in a call from four LDCs –
The Gambia, the Central African Republic,
Malawi and Uganda – for global leaders
to substantially increase support for trade
development in the LDCs and for the EIF.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

137

7

-----------------------Page 139 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity
More than 300 participants from over 50 countries
attended, including the Vice-President of The
Gambia, Fatoumata Jallow-Tambajang, HRH
Princess Abze Djigma from Burkina Faso and the
trade ministers of the Central African Republic,
The Gambia, Malawi and Uganda as well as
Geneva-based heads of agencies.
Agricultural trade was a major theme and
“connecting” was a key word – connecting the
ministries involved, connecting farmers to markets
and connecting markets to buyers. “Inclusive
growth is important, and we cannot continue with
business as usual – if we want to stop migration,
if we want to keep decent jobs, we really need
inclusivity, and this means we have to share market
access and remove hurdles,” Princess Abze
Djigma told the forum.

Working in fragile LDCs
The EIF has intensified its work in the most fragile
LDCs. This has included joint work with the WTO
to drive the WTO accession process of South
Sudan and to support institutional strengthening.
The EIF co-organized a high-level panel at the
WTO Public Forum (see page 150) on “Trade for

Peace in 2030: Integration of fragile states into the
global economy as a pathway towards peace and
resilience”. The panel helped to raise awareness
about the challenges facing fragile countries.
Countries long isolated by years of conflict are yet
to fully realize their trade potential and reap the
benefits, participants highlighted. Thirteen out of
22 governments currently acceding to the WTO
are considered “fragile” countries.

Deepening engagement in
cross-cutting areas
The EIF has jointly invested with the International
Trade Centre in projects to support women
traders in The Gambia and Zambia. The EIF has
also partnered with the South Asian Women
Economic Development Forum in working with
women entrepreneurs in Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Maldives and Nepal on leveraging
technology and e-commerce.
New e-trade readiness assessments for LDCs were
undertaken in conjunction with the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development. These
assessments review the current e-commerce and
digital trade situation in selected countries and
allow LDCs to identify opportunities and barriers.

The Vice-President
of The Gambia,
Fatoumata JallowTambajang, opened
the Global Forum on
Inclusive Trade for
LDCs.

138

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org

-----------------------Page 140 End-----------------------

Sta nda rd s a nd T rade D evelopment Fac i l it y
•	 In 2018, the Standards and Trade Development Facility (STDF) committed US$ 3.9 million
to help developing countries meet international standards for food safety, plant and animal
health and access global markets.
•	 A new STDF book was launched with 25 “results stories” on projects helping small-scale
farmers, processors and traders gain market access.
•	 The STDF released an external evaluation of STDF projects in Africa, Asia-Pacific and Latin
America and the Caribbean.
•	 Since 2004, over US$ 32 million has been provided through STDF funding to support projects
in least-developed and other low-income countries.

Background on the
Standards and Trade
Development Facility
The STDF is a global
partnership that helps
developing countries
build their sanitary and
phytosanitary capacity
and their ability to gain and
maintain market access.
The STDF contributes to
Sustainable Development
Goals, such as enhanced
economic growth, poverty
reduction, food security and
environmental protection.
Established by the WTO,
the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization, the World
Organisation for Animal
Health, the World Bank
and the World Health
Organization, the STDF
is financed by voluntary
contributions. The WTO
houses the Secretariat
and manages the STDF
trust fund.

Improving trading capacity in
developing countries
Six project grants and six project preparation
grants (PPGs) were approved by the STDF in
2018, totalling US$ 3.9 million. These projects
and PPGs aim to improve the capacity of
the public and private sectors in developing
countries to meet international standards for
food safety, plant and animal health and to
access international markets.
New projects aim to upgrade the sesame value
chain in Sudan, help Uganda and Togo comply
with phytosanitary requirements for their fruits
and vegetables, reduce aflatoxin contamination in
Burkina Faso maize, expand exports of safe and
high-quality spices from India and enhance the
capacity of the Kyrgyz fruit and vegetable industry
to comply with food safety requirements.
New PPGs include the development of
proposals to control sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) risks in cashew, shea and smoked fish
in Mali, to establish a bee sanctuary in Niue in
the South Pacific, to support the national foodcontrol system in Kiribati in the Central Pacific
and to test and assess voluntary third-party
assurance programmes for food safety in Africa
and Central America. Another PPG will develop
a regional project in eight Asian countries
to mitigate pesticide residue limit violations
through the use of biopesticides.
Since its founding, the STDF has provided
US$ 48.9 million for projects aimed at building
the SPS capacity of producers, traders and
governments in developing countries. Of these
funds, over US$ 32 million has been provided
through STDF funding to support projects in
least-developed and other low-income countries.
STDF project work mostly benefits countries in
Africa, followed by Asia-Pacific and Latin America
and the Caribbean (see Figures 4 and 5).

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org

Figure 4: Location of STDF projects
and project preparation grants (number),
2004-18

11%

15%

Total: 184
projects
and project
preparation
grants

49%

25%

Africa

Latin America and Caribbean

Asia-Pacific

Other regions

Figure 5: Coverage of STDF projects
and project preparation grants (number),
2004-2018 (US$ million)

7
27.3%
40.1%
STDF funds:
US$ 48.9 million

23.0%
9.6%

Food safety

General SPS

Animal health

Plant health

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

139

-----------------------Page 141 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Good regulatory practice

SPS awareness-raising

The STDF continued its work on good regulatory
practice (GRP) to analyse how it can improve
the quality and effectiveness of SPS measures
in developing countries. The main objective of
this work is to bring GRP to the attention of
policy makers and SPS regulatory authorities in
developing countries as well as the private sector.
A consultant is currently working on a study
on GRP in the SPS area, based on research,
interviews and analysis.

In 2018, the STDF published a results book,
“Driving Safe Trade Solutions Worldwide”,
containing examples of the impact of 25 STDF
projects on local communities in developing
countries and showcasing their contribution to
achieving various Sustainable Development Goals.

Prioritizing SPS investments for
market access (P-IMA)
Work continues on the STDF’s P-IMA framework,
which aims to improve SPS planning and decisionmaking processes. Two P-IMA focused PPGs
were carried out in Tajikistan and Madagascar.
In addition, the STDF started a project to help
selected Common Market for Eastern and
Southern Africa (COMESA) member states in
using the P-IMA framework to mainstream SPS
investments in agriculture, trade and environment
planning and financing frameworks. This project
will be implemented in partnership with the
Enhanced Integrated Framework (see page 137).

An independent evaluation of 22 STDF projects
was published, highlighting useful lessons for
further strengthening the STDF’s future activities
and improving the quality of SPS projects.
In 2018, the STDF Secretariat shared experiences
and lessons from the STDF’s work at over
60 conferences and SPS capacity-building
workshops worldwide. Presentations were given
on electronic SPS certification, border agency
cooperation, implementation of the WTO’s Trade
Facilitation Agreement (see page 86) in relation
to SPS compliance, prioritizing SPS investments
for market access and the impact of STDF
work on poverty reduction, women’s economic
empowerment and food security.

The STDF improves
access to export
markets by helping
farmers and
processors comply
with international
standards.

140

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org

-----------------------Page 142 End-----------------------

Te c h n ic al c oop e rat ion a nd t rai n i ng
•	 The WTO undertook more than 330 technical assistance activities in 2018, including
e-learning, global and regional training courses, academic programmes and national
and regional workshops.
•	 Least-developed countries (LDCs) participated in over 52 per cent of all technical
assistance activities.
•	 Recommendations from an external evaluators’ report were reflected in the new
workplan for 2018-19.

Background
on technical
cooperation and
training
The Institute for Training
and Technical Cooperation
coordinates the WTO’s
technical assistance
programmes. Its activities
include e-learning, global and
regional training courses,
academic programmes and
workshops at national and
regional level. The technical
assistance programmes
help WTO members better
understand their rights
and obligations in the
multilateral trading system.
This strengthens countries’
capacity to benefit from
participation in the system.

awareness of trade issues. Guidelines and
benchmarks help to maintain a high standard
of content for all training, consistent teaching
methods and regular evaluation of all technical
assistance activities delivered by the WTO.

The WTO Secretariat undertook over 330
technical assistance activities in 2018 to help
government officials gain a better understanding
of WTO rules and the multilateral trading system.
More than 21,000 participants benefited, a
17 per cent increase from 2017.
The WTO’s training activities are mostly based
on a biennial technical assistance and training
plan approved by the Committee on Trade and
Development. As with its predecessor, the 201819 plan follows a “results-based management”
approach, measuring results to ensure that training
is delivered in the most effective way. The plan for
2018-19 follows many of the recommendations
made by an external evaluation of WTO technical
assistance undertaken in 2016. This evaluation
endorsed the WTO approach, concluding that it
was relevant, effective, efficient, sustainable and
had an impact in beneficiary countries.
Courses are undertaken as part of a progressive
learning strategy so that participants benefit
from a step-by-step approach to improving their

Overall, the WTO Secretariat undertook 336
training activities in 2018 (254 face-to-face and
82 online), a 22 per cent increase over 2017, and
participated in 25 conferences and other events
organized by partner institutions. The number
of technical assistance activities in which LDCs
participated was slightly lower than in previous
years but still over 52 per cent. More than 60 per
cent of all participants accessed their training
through e-learning resources on the WTO’s
online platform.
The WTO continued to involve international and
local partners in technical assistance activities
to integrate a local perspective in the design
of the training programmes. Fourteen per cent
of activities were for the benefit of African
countries, 13 per cent for Asia and the Pacific,

Table 1: Technical assistance activities by region in 2018*
Region

Regional

National

Global**

Total

Africa

19

26%

29

23%

–

0%

48

14%

Asia Pacific

15

20%

29

23%

–

0%

44

13%

Caribbean

5

7%

8

6%

–

0%

13

4%

13

18%

23

18%

–

0%

36

11%

Global

7

9%

–

0%

134

100%

141

42%

Latin America

7

9%

28

22%

–

0%

35

10%

Middle East

8

11%

11

9%

–

0%

19

6%

74

100%

128

100%

134

100%

336

100%

Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia

Total

* Totals may not add up to 100 per cent due to rounding.
** Activities under the “global” category are not targeted at a specific region but include activities such as Geneva-based courses,
distance learning, internship programmes and an advisory role on legal issues.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

141

7

-----------------------Page 143 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Technical cooperation and training
Over

60%

of all participants
accessed their
training through
e-learning resources.

336

technical assistance
activities in 2018

22%

14%	 Africa
13%	 Asia Pacific

increase over 2017

4%	

21,600

Regional
coverage

participants

11 per cent for Central and Eastern Europe and
Central Asia, 10 per cent for Latin America,
6 per cent for Middle East countries and 4
per cent for the Caribbean (see Table 1). The
remaining 42 per cent were “global” activities,
mostly held in Geneva (including online courses),
aimed at participants from all WTO members
and observers. In line with the demand-driven
approach, approximately 38 per cent of all
activities were delivered at the national level in
countries where a specific need was identified.

Participation levels
Approximately 21,600 participants undertook
technical assistance activities in 2018, a 17 per
cent increase from the previous year.
Women represented 47 per cent of participants
for all WTO technical assistance activities in 2018,
an increase of two percentage points compared
with 2017. Roughly 60 per cent of participants
undertook technical assistance in English, 17
per cent in Spanish and 16 per cent in French.
Another 7 per cent of participants benefited from
multilingual training.

142

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Caribbean

11%	Central and Eastern
Europe and Central Asia
10%	 Latin America
6%	

Middle East

42%	 Global

Technical assistance continued for countries
seeking to join the WTO (see Figure 1 on page
30), with some 570 government officials invited
to participate in approximately 100 technical
assistance events.

Internship programmes
In 2018, the majority of officials completing WTO
internship programmes were from LDCs and other
low-income countries in Africa and the Asia and
Pacific regions. Sixteen candidates completed the
French and Irish Missions Internship Programme,
five candidates completed the Regional
Coordinator Internship Programme and three
completed the Accession Internship Programme.
WTO internship programmes offer government
officials hands-on experience in WTO activities.
The Netherlands Trainee Programme, the French
and Irish Missions Internship Programme, the
Regional Coordinator Internship Programme and
the Accession Internship Programme give priority
to applicants from Africa and LDCs, to small,
vulnerable economies and to countries in the
process of joining the WTO.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

-----------------------Page 144 End-----------------------

Fifteen young
professionals took
part in the 2018
Young Professionals
Programme.

Young Professionals Programme

Financing technical assistance

Following a merit-based selection process,
15 young professionals were recruited for the
Young Professionals Programme in 2018. The
programme was launched in 2016 to increase the
representation of professionals from nationalities
currently under-represented at the WTO
Secretariat. Funded by the Global Trust Fund,
the programme aims to improve the chances of
the young professionals being recruited by the
WTO and/or other regional and international
organizations. All the young professionals came
from members currently with no professional staff
in the WTO Secretariat.

The bulk of the technical assistance programme is
financed by the Global Trust Fund, which receives
voluntary contributions from WTO members.

The young professionals were hosted by
several divisions in the Secretariat and were
supervised by WTO staff. Their tasks ranged
from contributing to Secretariat working
documents, attending meetings and preparing
minutes to co-delivering technical assistance
presentations and assisting in the organization
of the WTO’s Public Forum.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

Excluding some annual fluctuations, there has
been a steady decrease in voluntary contributions
for a decade, with fewer donors and lower
contributions. In 2018, one major contributor
resumed support for the programme, leading to
a 23 per cent increase in the grants received by
the fund during the year, with the total reaching
CHF 7.4 million.
For the first time in four years, technical assistance
expenses rose by 8 per cent in 2018. Expenses
continued to exceed contributions and the yearend balance in the fund was further reduced.
Other funding sources include the WTO regular
budget for Geneva-based courses and national
technical assistance activities – approximately CHF
4.5 million for 2018 – and contributions from other
trust funds (such as the French and Irish Missions
Internship Programme and the China Programme),
which totalled CHF 1.6 million in 2018.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

143

7

-----------------------Page 145 End-----------------------

O ut reac h
Spotlight: Trade Dialogues

146

Relations with non-governmental organizations

148

Contact with parliamentarians

149

Spotlight: Public Forum 2018

150

Cooperation with other
intergovernmental organizations

152

Contact with the media

154

Contact with the business community

155

Spotlight: Small Business Champions initiative

156

Contact with the public

158

WTO website

158

Social media

159

WTO videos

159

Visiting groups

159

WTO publications

159

Economic research activities
WTO Essay Award for Young Economists
Background on
outreach
The WTO maintains
regular dialogue with
the business community,
non-governmental
organizations,
parliamentarians,
other international
organizations, the media
and the general public
to enhance cooperation
and raise awareness of
trade issues.

144

162
163

Statistics activities

164

Cooperation with academic institutions

166

Activities of the Chairs Programme

166

Academic Support Programme

167

Universities participating in the WTO Chairs Programme

168

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 146 End-----------------------

8
World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

145

-----------------------Page 147 End-----------------------

Outreach

S p ot l i g h t :

T rade D ialo g u e s
In June, the WTO facilitated a second “Trade Dialogue” at the WTO’s headquarters,
bringing together over 60 senior business representatives to discuss trade-related
issues and challenges. Their recommendations on strengthening global trade
were presented in October during the WTO Public Forum.

Hosted at the request of the private sector, the
International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and
B20 Argentina, the business arm of the G20, the
one-day meeting drew participants from small and
large enterprises, from developed, developing and
least-developed countries and a variety of sectors.
The discussions, which continued beyond
the June meeting, resulted in a series of
recommendations on how to reinforce global trade
and investment in support of inclusive growth
and development, together with a declaration
of support for the WTO. The main topics –
sustainable development, e-commerce, investment
facilitation, and micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs) – stemmed from priorities
identified at the Business Forum held in December
2017 alongside the WTO’s 11th Ministerial
Conference in Buenos Aires.
Business representatives sent a strong message
of support for the WTO and the rules-based
multilateral trading system, stressing its role
in creating economic stability and supporting
growth, development and job creation.
Participants at the Trade Dialogues event

146

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

highlighted the negative impact of protectionism
and called for businesses to speak up for an
open, rules-based trading system.
DG Azevêdo addressed the opening session.
“The level of engagement from the private sector
in the WTO keeps rising, and I think that today’s
event will provide real food for thought for WTO
members as they take forward their work. I also
heard a strong desire from business to keep this
conversation going and to keep building this
constructive partnership,” he said.
The first “Trade Dialogue” was held in 2016.
The initiative aims to bring together a wide
range of stakeholders, including labour
organizations, consumer bodies, business
and academics, to discuss trade concerns.
The opening session of the 7 June 2018 event
was followed by four break-out sessions where
participants engaged in small groups on the main
topics identified by the business community as
priorities. Business representatives also heard
updates on the work conducted at the WTO in
these areas since the Ministerial Conference.

Spotlight: Trade Dialogues
www.wto.org/tradedialogues

-----------------------Page 148 End-----------------------

Business
representatives sent
a strong message of
support for the WTO
and the multilateral
trading system.

The sessions were chaired by four “discussion
leaders”:
• Sunil Bharti Mittal, former ICC Chairman
• Paul Polman, ICC Chairman
• Daniel Funes de Rioja, B20 Chair
• Fernando Landa, B20 Policy Sherpa
At the final session, the discussion leaders and
other participants presented the main messages
from the working sessions to WTO members.
DG Azevêdo and the Chair of the WTO General
Council, Ambassador Junichi Ihara (Japan),
also attended.
Mr Polman told the final session: “Governments
are increasingly making plans to align global
trading policies with national development
approaches, to accelerate progress towards the
Sustainable Development Goals. It is critical that
new forms of innovation and cooperation continue
to be explored, amongst business, government
and multilateral institutions. That is why dialogues
– such as today’s – are necessary.”
The Trade Dialogue participants used the Public
Forum in October (see page 150) to share their
recommendations with a wider audience. On 2
October, a public session was held by the ICC
and the B20 Argentina, where the chairs of the
four groups outlined their recommendations.
Business representatives reaffirmed their “strong
support for the WTO” and stressed that the
“stability, predictability and transparency” provided
by the multilateral trading system are crucial for

Spotlight: Trade Dialogues
www.wto.org/tradedialogues

supporting growth, development and job creation.
They underlined the need for ongoing multilateral
negotiations and discussions at the WTO to
ensure the system “remains responsive and wellequipped” to deal with trade-related and other
modern, global economic issues.
DG Azevêdo told the session that it is vital that
business “engage with governments directly,
and with other stakeholders who also inform
WTO members’ positions. This must be a
constant process.”
The business recommendations included a call
for a common and inclusive approach on a
coherent regulatory framework for e-commerce
and for the WTO to lead the way in aligning
best regulatory practices to facilitate trade and
investment. “The business community strongly
supports the Joint Initiative on Investment
Facilitation at the WTO, and stands ready to
contribute to the development of a multilateral
framework to facilitate investments.”
On sustainable development, business
leaders said they support ongoing WTO
work on fisheries subsidies and agriculture
as well as initiatives on environmental goods
and services. “Business stands ready to
actively participate to help finding appropriate
and workable outcomes on these issues,”
the recommendations said. On MSMEs, the
recommendations recognized the progress
made through the Joint Initiative on MSMEs
(see page 51) and encouraged increased
dialogue on trade between governments
and the private sector.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

147

8

-----------------------Page 149 End-----------------------

Outreach

R elat ion s w it h non- gove r n mental
orga n i z at ion s
•	 Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) were kept up to date on WTO activities through
briefings, workshops and their attendance at various events.
•	 They were the second-largest group at the WTO’s annual Public Forum.

Background on
relations with NGOs
The WTO maintains regular
dialogue with civil society
organizations to enhance
cooperation and increase
their awareness of WTO
activities and the multilateral
trading system. Maintaining
and strengthening the
relationship with civil society
remains important for
increasing transparency and
increasing public awareness
of the work of the WTO.

The WTO kept NGOs informed of its activities
through workshops, briefings and a series of WTO
events to which they were invited, notably the
2018 Public Forum.

facilitation initiatives. Participants stressed that
trade offers both challenges and opportunities
in these areas and that regional cooperation and
experience-sharing is key for making progress.

The WTO Secretariat regularly briefed NGOs on
the status of work in WTO bodies and in trade
negotiations. To further encourage interaction
with WTO members, NGOs are invited to submit
position papers on trade-related topics. In 2018,
six papers were received containing analysis and
commentary on topics being addressed in the
agricultural negotiations. These are available on
the WTO’s NGO webpage.

In 2018, NGOs had the opportunity to attend
three dispute hearings which were opened to the
public. These concerned two cases: US – Large
Civil Aircraft (2nd complaint), a compliance
complaint brought by the European Union; and US
– Differential Pricing Methodology, a case brought
by Canada.

In October, the WTO and the Friedrich Ebert
Stiftung held a three-day regional workshop in
Nairobi, Kenya, for civil society, business and
media from East Africa. Discussions among the
39 participants focused on the WTO’s scope
and functions, ongoing negotiations and issues
relevant to the region, such as the role of trade in
the Sustainable Development Goals, the digital
economy, regional trade developments and trade

Public Forum
In October, the Public Forum, the WTO’s
biggest outreach event, attracted over 2,500
participants from over 100 countries, including
many NGOs. NGOs organized 17 sessions and
accounted for 14 per cent of participants, the
second largest group after business (see page
155). The sessions organized by NGOs covered
topics ranging from inclusiveness and technologyenabled trade to sustainable trade.

Our World Is Not
for Sale organized
a Public Forum
session on making
the multilateral
trading system more
sustainable
and inclusive.

148

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Relations with non-governmental organizations
www.wto.org/ngos

-----------------------Page 150 End-----------------------

C ontac t w it h pa rl iamenta r ia n s

•	 The 2018 Parliamentary Conference on the WTO attracted more than 300 members of
parliament (MPs) representing more than 100 countries to the two-day meeting held at
the WTO.
•	 The conference discussed WTO reform and the trade impact of rapid technological change.
MPs urged WTO members to strengthen the multilateral trading system.

Background on
contact with
parliamentarians
Parliamentarians play
an important role in
the multilateral trading
system. Any deal resulting
from intergovernmental
negotiations at the WTO
will, in most cases, need
approval from legislators.
The WTO seeks to maintain
an open dialogue with
parliamentarians and to
help them gain a deeper
understanding of the
organization and its work.

The 2018 Parliamentary Conference on the
WTO, meeting on 6-7 December at the WTO,
discussed WTO reform and the effect on
trade of rapid technological change, including
digitalization, robots and artificial intelligence.
The conference urged WTO members to
strengthen the multilateral trading system,
with the WTO as its cornerstone.
MPs were addressed by WTO Deputy DirectorGeneral Xiaozhun Yi, Chair of the WTO General
Council Ambassador Junichi Ihara (Japan) and
Vice President of the European Parliament Mr
Fabio Massimo Castaldo, as well as by several
Geneva-based ambassadors. All highlighted
the importance of WTO reform and indicated
the need to tackle issues such as the digital
economy and the functioning of the WTO
dispute settlement system.

DDG Yi stressed that at a time of heightened
trade tensions it is more critical than ever for
WTO members to find a way forward. He recalled
the successes of the WTO and said there are
now persistent voices for the need to reform the
multilateral trading system while noting that not
all members agree. He reiterated the WTO’s firm
commitment to working with parliamentarians
as they are “the key transmission belt between
international institutions, negotiations and the
public in general”.
The Steering Committee of the Inter-Parliamentary
Union (IPU) on WTO matters met in April 2018
in Brussels and in Geneva during the WTO
Public Forum (see page 150). The IPU is the
international organization of parliaments. Deputy
Director-General Yonov Frederick Agah, senior
WTO staff and Geneva-based ambassadors
briefed legislators on important issues facing
the multilateral trading system.
A parliamentary session was held during the
Public Forum on “Sustainable development in
trade agreements”. Speakers included members
of the European Parliament and the National
Assembly of Senegal as well as a representative
of the International Labour Organization.

Regional workshops and meetings
In 2018, the WTO organized three regional
workshops for parliamentarians: in Vienna (coorganized with the Joint Vienna Institute) for
MPs from Central European, Central Asian and
Caucasus countries; in Belgrade (organized
jointly with the Parliamentary Assembly of the
Mediterranean) for MPs from the Mediterranean
area; and in Singapore (with the TEMASEK
Foundation) for MPs from Asia. The three events
drew over 180 MPs.

Contact with parliamentarians
www.wto.org/parliamentarians

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

149

8

-----------------------Page 151 End-----------------------

Outreach

S p ot l i g h t :

P u bl ic For u m 2018
The Public Forum debated how technological and other developments will
affect trade in 2030. It attracted over 2,500 participants and staged a record
number of sessions – 111 – on its themes of sustainable trade, technologyenabled trade and a more inclusive trading system. For the first time, the
Forum held a session organized entirely by youth.

Policy-makers and representatives of government,
business, workers, consumers and civil society
(see Figure 1) came together at the 2018 Public
Forum in October for three days of debate on
how technological and other developments will
affect trade in 2030 and beyond, and how to
manage the major social and economic challenges
technological change will bring.
Under its main theme of “Trade 2030”, the WTO’s
biggest outreach event attracted over 2,500
participants from over 100 countries, with a record
number of 111 sessions taking place.

High-level sessions
Keynote speakers at the opening plenary session
stressed the importance of innovation and
flexibility in adapting to the new global trading
environment. DG Azevêdo underlined the need
“to set a path towards better global trade by
2030 – trade that is even more sustainable and
inclusive. We can’t put progress on hold until
we’re ready. We have to start talking now. We
have to get involved.”
Jack Ma, co-founder of the Alibaba Group,
sounded an optimistic note. “All these things will
fundamentally change the way we do trade, but for
sure most businesses will benefit. We will create

a lot more jobs than we expected,” he said. Other
speakers included: Erik Solheim, former Executive
Director of the UN Environment Programme,
Christine Bliss, President of the US-based
Coalition of Services Industries (CSI) and two
young entrepreneurs, Laura Behrens Wu, CEO
and co-founder of Shippo, a multi-carrier shipping
platform, and Tunde Kehinde, co-founder of Lidya,
a finance company for small business.
The Forum saw the launch of the WTO’s flagship
publication, the World Trade Report, which
focuses on how digital technologies, such as
artificial intelligence, 3D printing and Blockchain
are transforming trade. A panel of experts, while
optimistic about the future, agreed that digital
technologies pose challenges to global trade
regulation and that governments must work hard
for coordinated solutions.
Figure 1: Public Forum participation in 2018

5%

14%

18%
13%
1%
10%

1%

13%

8%
10%

7%

NGO
Academic
International Organisations
Parliamentarians
Students High School
Students University
Other
Governmental
Journalists
Business representatives
Lawyers

150

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Spotlight: Public Forum 2018
www.wto.org/pf18

-----------------------Page 152 End-----------------------

A high-level leadership dialogue on “Making
Trade Work for the Environment, Prosperity
and Resilience” (see page 96) was hosted by
Mr Solheim and DG Azevêdo. “We must do
everything we can … to unlock trade in green
sectors and move us towards more sustainable
ways of consuming and producing. When we
do this, we will find huge opportunities for
prosperity and jobs,” Mr Solheim said.

Youth
For the first time, the Forum held a session
organized entirely by youth. The session was
based on a report prepared by the Global Shapers
Community, a network of young people. Sixty citybased hubs from 42 countries, representing 800
young people, contributed to the report.
Participants highlighted that digital technology will
redefine the workplace and business processes
but many countries are ill-prepared to embrace the
impact of new technologies. As “the generation of
tomorrow”, they called for a “seat at the table” in
order to shape the trade policies of the future.

Spotlight: Public Forum 2018
www.wto.org/pf18

Side events
A record number of 27 exhibitors, including
international organizations and businesses,
showcased their products and work relating to
trade. Among them were companies offering
innovative and sustainable technological solutions
that are contributing towards greener, more
inclusive economies. Exhibitors included Universal
Robots, which displayed one of the robots that is
changing the future of manufacturing.
The WTO Bookshop and Library organized three
“Meet the Author Sessions” at which authors
discussed their recent titles.

Small Business Champion
The Institute of Export and International Trade
was declared a “Small Business Champion”
(see page 156).

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

151

8

-----------------------Page 153 End-----------------------

Outreach

C oop e rat ion w it h ot he r
i nte rgove r n mental orga n i z at ion s
•	 G20 leaders recognized the contribution of the multilateral trading system to economic
growth but called for reform to improve its functioning.
•	 The WTO continued to work closely with other international organizations to promote the
Sustainable Development Goals and to assist developing countries in maximizing
the benefits of trade.
•	 DG Azevêdo attended the G20 summit and took part in events organized by the UN,
the World Bank, the IMF, the OECD and others.
•	 Addressing the OECD Council Meeting in May 2018, DG Azevêdo said the stability of the
trading system is fundamental to global economic wellbeing.

Background on
cooperation with
other international
organizations
The WTO works closely
with other intergovernmental
organizations and regional
bodies, especially those
involved in trade-related
issues. This cooperation
helps to ensure coordinated
action and a consistent
approach to international
trade policies.

G20
In November, DG Azevêdo attended the leaders’
summit of the G20 group of countries in Buenos
Aires, Argentina. In a communiqué issued at
the end of the summit, leaders emphasized the
important contribution of the multilateral trading
system to growth, productivity, innovation, job
creation and development. They also recognized
that “the system is currently falling short of its
objectives and there is room for improvement.
We therefore support the necessary reform of
the WTO to improve its functioning. We will
review progress at our next Summit [in Osaka,
Japan, in June 2019].”
“With this statement, the leaders underline the
vital importance of trade and of the multilateral
trading system,” DG Azevêdo said. Noting the
leaders’ call for improvements and reforms,
the Director-General said he will “work with
WTO members to take this forward in the
interests of all”. In September, DG Azevêdo had
also attended the G20 Trade and Investment
Ministerial Meeting in Mar del Plata, Argentina,
setting the stage for a productive discussion on
trade by G20 leaders.
With the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), the WTO continued
to publish six-monthly reports on trade and
investment measures in G20 countries. The
November report showed a significant increase
in the number and coverage of trade-restrictive
measures, providing an insight into the measures
imposed in the context of current trade tensions
(see page 106).

152

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

The WTO contributed widely to trade discussions,
notably in the G20 sherpa context and in the
G20 working group on trade and investment.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF), the
World Bank, OECD and the WTO organized a
conference during the IMF and World Bank annual
meeting in Bali in October, bringing together
policy makers and experts from G20 and other
countries to discuss how global trade promotes
growth and can benefit everyone. Together with
the IMF and the World Bank, the WTO provided
a background study on “Reinvigorating Trade and
Inclusive Growth”, which was launched by the
heads of the three organizations (see page 109).

OECD
DG Azevêdo addressed the OECD Ministerial
Council in May 2018, telling the meeting that
the WTO is essential in resolving growing trade
tensions but that this requires WTO members’
active support for the system itself. “The stability of
the trading system is fundamental to our economic
wellbeing. Yet it is simply taken for granted. So we
need to strengthen and safeguard the system,”
he said.
The OECD and the WTO cooperate in a wide
range of areas, including in the trade in valueadded (TiVA) database, launched in 2013. They
also cooperate to improve the measurement
of digital trade (see page 165). The OECD
and WTO are also working together in the
development of trade facilitation indicators (TFIs).
This interactive web tool covers 152 countries.
The TFIs identify areas for action and assess the
potential impact of trade facilitation reforms so
that governments can prioritize action and mobilize
technical assistance.

Cooperation with other intergovernmental organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

-----------------------Page 154 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo
participated in
the G20 summit
in Buenos Aires.

In cooperation with the OECD, the WTO launched
the WTO iLibrary (www.wto-ilibrary.org), a new
platform that brings together all the WTO’s key
research material on global trade (see page 159).

United Nations
DG Azevêdo attended meetings of the United
Nations Chief Executives Board (CEB), a highlevel body composed of the executive heads of
UN agencies, funds and programmes as well as
the executive heads of the IMF, the World Bank
and the WTO. During the CEB spring meeting,
held in London, DG Azevêdo presented to the UN
Secretary-General António Guterres the WTO
publication on “Mainstreaming Trade to Attain the
Sustainable Development Goals” (see page 131).
The WTO is part of the UN Secretary Generalled High-Level Task Force, which brings together
23 UN agencies and international organizations
to provide policy coordination and political
leadership to achieve the SDGs related to food
security and to sustainable agriculture and food
systems. The WTO also works closely with the UN
Secretariat on trade-related targets in the Agenda
2030 for Sustainable Development.
During the Public Forum 2018, the WTO and UN
Environment co-hosted a leadership dialogue
and released a joint publication on “Making Trade
Work for Environment, Prosperity and Resilience”
(see page 96).
UNCTAD, the International Trade Centre (ITC)
and the WTO jointly produce quarterly and annual
statistics on international trade in services. They
also combine in statistical capacity-building
activities, including training courses and e-learning
courses. Experts from the WTO Secretariat and
UNCTAD met at the WTO in March 2018 to
discuss how to better measure trade in services
in the digital age. The event was the first in the
“Simply Services” speaker series, an informal
platform for sharing the latest information on
trends in services trade.
The WTO’s cooperation with the UN Economic
and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
Cooperation with other intergovernmental organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

(UNESCAP) has grown, particularly in the areas
of technical assistance and economic research.
In 2018, the WTO and UNESCAP agreed to
work together on a research project to better
understand the impact on the economies of former
LDCs when they graduate to developing country
status. This research will be accompanied by
technical assistance to graduating LDCs so that
they can efficiently manage the transition.

ITC
The WTO and UNCTAD jointly sponsor the ITC,
a trade-promotion body for developing countries.
The WTO also collaborates with the ITC and
UNCTAD in the annual publication of the World
Tariff Profiles (see page 164).
The WTO works closely with the ITC to help
developing countries implement and benefit
from WTO agreements. The two organizations
work together on the Business for Development
initiative, which aims to help the private sector in
developing countries define national priorities for
WTO negotiations and make governments aware
of business concerns.
The ITC’s Joint Advisory Group (JAG) meets
annually to make recommendations on the ITC’s
work programme. The 52nd session of the JAG
was held in July at the WTO.

Other intergovernmental
organizations
With the World Bank, the WTO launched a joint
publication in December (see page 163) – “Trade
and Poverty Reduction: New Evidence of Impacts
in Developing Countries” – highlighting the need
for policies to maximize trade gains for the extreme
poor in developing countries.
The WTO is actively involved in the G20
Agricultural Market Information System (AMIS).
The WTO undertook to continue helping
AMIS in ensuring increased transparency in
international commodity markets and improving
policy coordination as part of the collective
effort to address global food security.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

153

8

-----------------------Page 155 End-----------------------

Outreach

C ontac t w it h t he med ia
•	 The WTO’s media team handled a growing number of queries as a result of mounting trade
tensions and calls for reform of the WTO.
•	 The WTO increased its outreach to journalists, organizing a workshop for Latin American
journalists in Mexico City and a seminar in Geneva for journalists from English-speaking
countries in Africa, the Caribbean and Asia.

The WTO media team handled a growing number
of queries from journalists about the organization’s
role in safeguarding the multilateral trading system
in view of mounting global trade tensions and calls
by WTO members for reform of the organization.
International correspondents came to Geneva to
undertake profiles of the WTO and to speak with
senior officials from the WTO Secretariat and
members’ missions.
Thirty-one press briefings were held in 2018,
almost half of them on dispute settlement. In April,
DG Azevêdo briefed journalists on the WTO’s
annual trade outlook. In July, he was invited by
the Geneva Association of UN Correspondents
(ACANU) to brief its members.
The WTO’s flagship outreach event, the
Public Forum (see page 150), attracted strong
media interest. Journalists were also invited
to attend a number of special events at WTO
headquarters, including three workshops and
three book launches.
The WTO received 234 requests for registration
to the online newsroom, where journalists can
access press releases and publications under
embargo. This was slightly up on the previous

year’s 226. The total number of accredited
journalists registered was 1,933, against
1,917 in 2017.

Outreach
The WTO organizes workshops for journalists
to help them gain a better understanding of the
WTO and the rules-based trading system. One
was held for Latin American journalists in Mexico
City. Under-Secretary of Foreign Trade Juan
Carlos Baker opened the workshop and panellists
included Mexican Ambassador to the WTO
Roberto Zapata and former Appellate Body Chair
Mr Ricardo Ramírez-Hernández.
Over 40 journalists took part in the workshop –
29 invited participants from 14 countries plus
local media. The workshop covered a wide range
of issues, from WTO reform to trade and climate
change and the importance of the agriculture
sector in Latin American economies.
The WTO invited 14 journalists from 12 Englishspeaking countries in Africa, the Caribbean and
Asia to Geneva in December for a seminar. The
programme touched on the new challenges of
international trade and ways of using trade as
an engine for growth and development.

Fourteen journalists
from Africa, the
Caribbean and
Asia took part in a
seminar at the WTO
in December.

154

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Contact with the media
www.wto.org/media

-----------------------Page 156 End-----------------------

C ontac t w it h t he bu s i ne s s c om mu n it y
•	 The business community presented at the WTO’s Public Forum its recommendations
on how to reinforce global trade.
•	 DG Azevêdo welcomed the support of the business community for strengthening the
multilateral trading system.

Background on
contact with the
business community
Business and the WTO
have always been closely
connected. The private
sector is a major beneficiary
of transparent and
predictable trade rules and
obligations. Business is an
important interlocutor for
both governments and the
WTO. It is actively involved
in the multilateral trading
system and participates in
public activities of the WTO.

Recommendations on reinforcing
global trade
The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
and B20 Argentina, the business arm of the G20,
presented at the WTO Public Forum in October
recommendations on how to reinforce global trade
in support of inclusive growth and development.
The recommendations build on the outcomes of
the Business Forum held in Buenos Aires at the
end of 2017 and the “Trade Dialogues” meeting
(see page 146) held at the WTO in June 2018.
They cover e-commerce, investment facilitation,
small businesses and sustainable development.
The business community formed the largest
grouping at the 2018 Public Forum (see page
150), with around 230 business representatives
attending debates and meetings on the theme of
“Trade 2030”. The business community organized
and co-organized 26 sessions during the threeday event, covering topics such as inclusive and
sustainable trade and technology-enabled trade.
The Trade Dialogues session at the Public Forum
was led by ICC Secretary General John Denton,
B20 Chair Daniel Funes de Rioja and B20 Policy
Sherpa Fernando Landa. DG Azevêdo delivered
the opening remarks. “Reaching consensus

amongst businesses is just one element of the
equation. You also have to bring your ideas and
suggestions to the members themselves, and
work with them to drive your issues forward …
I am delighted you are using the Public Forum
for this continued exchange,” he said.
Secretary General Denton said: “We know it is
a particularly challenging time for the multilateral
trading system and the point we made when we
met in June was that the ICC stands willing and
able to engage in constructive discussions to
facilitate a continuing role for multilateralism in
global commerce.”
During a visit to Buenos Aires in October, where
he attended the B20 Summit, DG Azevêdo
welcomed the support of the business community
for strengthening the multilateral trading system.

Small Business Champions
The Institute of Export and International Trade
(UK) was announced as a new Small Business
Champion and three more successful proposals
were named under the ICC and WTO Small
Business Champions initiative, which the two
organizations launched in August 2017 (see
page 156).

Other contact with businesses
Throughout the year, WTO officials met with
members of the business community visiting
Geneva and held meetings with business
representatives during visits overseas. The issues
most frequently discussed included the state
of play in the WTO’s trade negotiations, trade
tensions and the Appellate Body impasse.

8
The ICC and
B20 presented
recommendations
on how to reinforce
global trade at the
2018 Public Forum.

Contact with the business community
www.wto.org/business

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

155

-----------------------Page 157 End-----------------------

Outreach

S p ot l i g h t :

S m al l Bu s i ne s s C hampion s i n it iat ive
The WTO and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) declared the UK’s Institute of
Export and International Trade as the second ICC-WTO Small Business Champion. Google
was named as the first in 2017. Encouraging micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
(MSMEs) to trade internationally and raising awareness about the difficulties they face
was the motive behind launching the Small Business Champions initiative.

MSMEs play vital roles in national economies,
particularly in terms of providing innovation, growth
and job creation. Yet their share in international
trade is relatively small. The initiative, launched
in August 2017, called on companies and private
sector organizations around the world to come
up with innovative and practical proposals for
encouraging and assisting MSMEs to do business
across borders.
The Institute of Export and International Trade’s
proposal was to run a competition – “Open to
Export International Business Award” – aimed
at encouraging small businesses around the
world to begin trading internationally. It provided
support, training and the online tools to help
small businesses put together a “global growth
action plan”.
Alan Chanda, CEO
of Dytech Limited, a
Zambia-based honey
producer, won the
Export Business
Award.

During the Public Forum, 12 finalists pitched
their “export action plans” to a panel of judges
for the chance to win a package of financing and
assistance from the Institute. The competition was
launched in May and attracted plans from small
businesses worldwide. “Running this competition
and working with inspiring MSMEs from around

the world has been both humbling and truly
inspirational. Thank you to the WTO and ICC for
supporting it,” said Lesley Batchelor, Director
General of the Institute of Export and International
Trade, in announcing the result.
The winner was Dytech Limited, a Zambia-based
honey producer. “I’m flabbergasted,” said Alan
Chanda, co-founder and CEO of the social
enterprise. “There were so many people with
interesting ideas from around the world, and I’m
extremely thankful that I’ve been chosen to go
back home with a smile on my face.”
About 10 per cent of Dytech’s eco-friendly honey
is bottled, branded and sold in 150 shops across
Zambia while the rest is sold in bulk. The company
has sold to customers in South Africa to the tune
of 90 tons a year. It is now targeting new markets
and will soon export to Germany and China for
the first time.
Besides the Institute, the other three successful
proposals in 2018 were from eBay, Brazil’s
National Confederation of Industry and the
Asian Association of Business Incubation.

156

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Spotlight: Small Business Champions initiative
www.wto.org/msmeschampions

-----------------------Page 158 End-----------------------

The UK’s Institute
of Export and
International Trade
was announced as
an ICC-WTO Small
Business Champion.

Winners of a
competition
launched by
Google, the first
Small Business
Champion, attended
a masterclass
at Google
headquarters.

The “eBay Emerging Markets Initiative” aims to
help motivated MSMEs in Latin America, the
Middle East and North Africa leverage the eBay
marketplace to reach developed market consumers.
The project aims to provide training on key online
commerce issues, a package of promotional eBay
services and support and showcase successful
project participants.
Under its project “Small Business Without
Barriers”, Brazil’s National Confederation of
Industry has conducted a range of activities,
including surveying more than 400 small
businesses to identify the difficulties they face
in trading internationally, conducting capacitybuilding roadshows and providing training
through brochures, online courses and videos.
The proposal by the Asian Association of Business
Incubation aims at helping small businesses in
Asia’s technology sector by matching them with

Spotlight: Small Business Champions initiative
www.wto.org/msmeschampions

partners to assist them in areas such as crossborder technology transfer and identifying new
trading opportunities.
The call for proposals for the business champions
initiative closed in December 2018, with seven
proposals having been accepted. They will be
recognized as small business champions following
the successful conclusion of their project.
A video competition launched by Google in
partnership with the WTO and the ICC was
the first successful proposal under the Small
Business Champions initiative. The three small
business winners of the competition were invited
by Google to its headquarters in Mountain View,
California, in May 2018 to participate in a “master
class” in digital skills for export. Following the
successful completion of its project, Google was
confirmed as the first Small Business Champion.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

157

8

-----------------------Page 159 End-----------------------

Outreach

C ontac t w it h t he pu bl ic
•	 The WTO website attracted over 2.3 million visits a month.
•	 The WTO’s social media channels grew by almost 10 per cent in 2018.
•	 WTO videos were watched over 750,000 times on social media over the year.
•	 The WTO issued over 60 publications and launched the WTO iLibrary containing over 1,000
publications and reports.
WTO website
The WTO website attracted over 2.3 million
monthly visits in 2018, over 20 per cent more than
the year before. Of these visits, 14.0 per cent were
from the United States, 13.6 per cent from China,
10.2 per cent from Russia and 4.3 per cent from
India. Total page views rose to 60.8 million from
50.1 million in 2017. Over 460 news items were
published on the site in 2018.
The most downloaded files were the WTO’s
flagship publications, the World Trade Statistical
Review 2017 (111,400 downloads), the World
Trade Report 2017 (41,200) and the Annual
Report 2018 (over 25,000). The most popular
video posted on the WTO website, with 7,700
views, was about the 20th anniversary of the WTO
while a video on global values chains had over
7,000 views. The “Trade Changes” video from
the 2017 Public Forum, which illustrates how
trade changes, challenges and connects people,
continued to attract attention, with 6,000 views.
Some 87,500 people have registered to receive
email alerts for WTO news items (see Figure 2).
The largest numbers of registrations are from
India (11 per cent), the United States (7 per cent),
Mexico (5 per cent), Colombia (4 per cent),
France (4 per cent) and China (3 per cent).

WTO website

Figure 2: People registered to receive
email alerts, as of end-2018
2.6% 1.9%

14.4%

12.0%

9.6%
12.1%
3.3%
0.1%

31.5%

7.6%

2.4%
2.5%

Business representatives
Government officials
Lawyers
NGO representatives
Parliamentarians
Students (high school)
Students (university)
University professors
Other academics
Other
Accredited media
Other journalists

Visitors to the website

increase over 2017

158

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Contact with the public
www.wto.org

-----------------------Page 160 End-----------------------

Social media
followers 2018

4,248

Figure 3: Growth in numbers of followers
of the WTO on Facebook, Instagram,
LinkedIn, Twitter and Weibo
2017

Instagram

2018

LinkedIn

Facebook
Twitter
Weibo

0

100k

200k

300k

400k

500k

600k

Social media
The WTO is active on social media, providing
regular updates about WTO activities to
journalists, business people, academics and
the general public. Posts about the Young
Professionals Programme (see page 143), the
Public Forum (see page 150) and news about
WTO activities attracted the highest level of
interactions. Material showcasing the history
of  the WTO was also very popular.
In 2018, the WTO increased its offering of social
media content in official languages other than
English. The organization’s Instagram presence
has grown, using content developed especially
for the platform’s public. At the end of the year,
the WTO’s three institutional Twitter accounts
had more than 360,000 followers, its Facebook
page had nearly 300,000 “likes” and its page
on Weibo, a Chinese social media platform,
had 618,000 followers (see Figure 3).

WTO videos
In 2018, the WTO expanded the publication of
videos in Spanish and French. Video production
made use of diverse formats to cater to
different audiences on the WTO website and
on social media platforms. The most popular
videos showcased the history of the WTO and
highlighted trade statistics and forecasts. WTO
videos were watched over 750,000 times on
social media over the year.

Visiting groups

given in Arabic, German and Italian, two each in
Portuguese, Thai and Ukrainian, and one each in
Swedish and Vietnamese.

WTO publications
The WTO’s publications programme was very
active, issuing 63 publications and adding
interactive apps of the Annual Report and the
World Trade Report to its app library. The WTO
held six high-level book launches in 2018,
including co-publications with UN Environment
(see page 96) and the World Bank (see page
109) and a new two-volume publication on the
dispute settlement system under the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) to mark
the 70th anniversary of the GATT.
Most WTO publications can be downloaded free
of charge in the WTO’s three official languages,
English, French and Spanish. Printed copies can
be purchased from the WTO’s online bookshop
(http://onlinebookshop.wto.org). The WTO’s
apps are available free of charge from the App
Store and Google Play. The WTO’s Publications
Facebook page has over 49,000 followers and its
Twitter page has over 69,000 followers. A digital
newsletter, “Book News”, is regularly sent to
85,000 recipients.
In September, the WTO launched the WTO
iLibrary (www.wto-ilibrary.org), a new dynamic
research tool that brings together for the
first time, into one self-contained area, all the
WTO’s key research material on global trade.
Developed in cooperation with the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), the WTO iLibrary contains over 400
titles published by the WTO or co-published with
other international organizations, over 30 titles
co-published with Cambridge University Press,
over 200 WTO working papers, comprehensive
statistical data on world trade and over 400
dispute settlement reports.

Visiting groups

visiting groups

In 2018, the WTO welcomed 235 visiting
groups (over 6,600 people). The presentations
provided to these groups mostly covered the
WTO’s history, functions and current work. Some
groups requested presentations on specific
topics, primarily dispute settlement, agriculture,
development and intellectual property rights.

8

Most of the presentations were given in English
(153) while 32 were given in French, 12 in
Chinese, nine in Russian, seven in Spanish and
five in Korean. Three presentations each were
Contact with the public
www.wto.org

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

159

-----------------------Page 161 End-----------------------

Outreach

Flagship publications
Annual Repor t
2 018

Annual Report 2018

World Trade Report 2018 app

ISBN 978-92-870-4507-2 | CHF 50

Free

The Annual Report contains a message
from the Director-General, an overview of
the past year and in-depth accounts of the
WTO’s various areas of activity.

The World Trade Report 2018 app
features an interactive quiz that tests
users’ knowledge of how digital
technologies are transforming global
commerce, and links to the full text of
the Report.

Annual Report 2018 app

WORLD
TRADE
STATISTICAL
REVIEW
2018

Free
The Annual Report app features
an interactive quiz that tests users’
knowledge of the WTO and links to the
full text of the Report.

World Trade Statistical Review 2018
ISBN 978-92-870-4623-9 | CHF 50
The World Trade Statistical Review 2018
provides a comprehensive overview of
the latest developments in world trade,
covering both trade in goods and services
and trade in value-added terms.

World Trade Report 2018
ISBN 978-92-870-4501-0 | CHF 50
WORLD TRADE
REPORT

The future of world
trade: How digital
technologies are
transforming global
commerce

2018

The 2018 World Trade Report analyses
how digital technologies are transforming
global commerce and how trade is likely
to evolve as a result of these technologies,
such as 3D printing, artificial intelligence
and Blockchain.

Other annual publications
TRADE
PROFILES

2018

Trade in
commercial
services

Transport

Travel
Other
commercial
services

Merchandise
trade

Industrial
property

Agricultural
products
Nonagricultural
products

Trade Profiles 2018
WTO

WORLD
TARIFF
PROFILES
2018

ITC
UNCTAD

World Tariff Profiles 2018

0<2

160

2<4

4<6

6<8

8<10

10<15

15<20

20<

Trade Policy Reviews

ISBN 978-92-870- 4629-1 | CHF 50
Trade Policy Review

Trade Profiles 2018 provides key
indicators on trade in goods and services
for 196 economies, highlighting each
economy’s major exports and imports and
main trading partners.

The Gambia 2018

World Tariff Profiles 2018

World Trade
organizaTion

ISBN 978-92-870-4635-2 | CHF 50
World Tariff Profiles 2018 provides
comprehensive information on the tariffs
and non-tariff measures imposed by over
170 countries and customs territories. Copublished with ITC and UNCTAD.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Dispute Settlement Reports 2017
Volume VIII: Pages 3767 to 4372

Applied MFN tariffs

Trade Profiles 2018

Dispute Settlement Reports 2017
Volume VIII: Pages 3767 to 4372

2017

In 2018, 17 Trade Policy Reviews were
published, analysing the trade policies and
practices of Bolivia, Cambodia, China, the
European Union, The Gambia, Guinea, Iceland,
Jamaica, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Paraguay,
the Philippines, Mauritania, Montenegro,
Switzerland and Liechtenstein, and the West
African Economic and Monetary Union.
Dispute Settlement Reports 2017
Eight volumes were produced in 2018,
providing the full texts of panel reports,
Appellate Body reports and arbitration
awards issued by the WTO in 2017.
Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

Contact with the public
www.wto.org

-----------------------Page 162 End-----------------------

New publications
World Trade
Organization

greement Establishing the World

es, including all amendments

orce until September 2017.

he WTO’s intellectual property

World Trade
Organization

of the WTO’s founding

The WTO Agreements
The Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the
World Trade Organization and its Annexes

med at improving developing

rce in February 2017, an

to extend the frequency of peer

olicy Review Mechanism as of

ent Procurement Agreement. This

The Legal Texts: The Results of

GATT disputes: 1948-1995
Volume 1: Overview and one-page case summaries

Volume 1: Overview and One-page
Case Summaries
ISBN 978-92-870-4260-6

ISBN 978-1-108-43843-8 | CHF 50

U
pd
Th at e
e
d
Le ed
ga it
l T ion
ex o
ts f

l Trade Negotiations, which was

The WTO Agreements

WTO’s Trade Facilitation

GATT Disputes: 1948-1995

The WTO Agreements: The
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing
the World Trade Organization and
its Annexes

Volume 1 provides a comprehensive
overview of dispute settlement activities
under the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) 1947 and one-page
case summaries for each of the 316 GATT
disputes brought by contracting parties
during this period.

This publication contains the text of the
WTO’s founding agreement, the 1994
Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the
World Trade Organization, and its Annexes,
including all amendments and additions
up to September 2017. Co-published with
Cambridge University Press.

GATT Disputes: 1948-1995
World Trade
Organization

nternational trade in goods, largely due to

world’s main trading nations to reduce and

n a multilaterally orchestrated manner. This

the procedures and practices relating to

negotiations have evolved over this time. In

n recounts how negotiations to expand the
Information Technology Agreement were

n account of tariff renegotiations regarding

of the European Union. It also covers tariff

ssion of a number of new members to the

Russia. This book will be of particular interest

of government, trade ministries, economists

d in trade policy.

ofessor of the Trade Policy and WTO Research
Council for Research on International

R). He is a former Deputy Director-General of

ation in Geneva, Switzerland. His main

e Developing Countries in the International

d Tariff Negotiations and Renegotiations under

st edition, 2001), and as editor, The WTO

griculture (2002).

World Trade Tariff Negotiations and Renegotiations
Organization under the GATT and the WTO Second Edition Hoda

des, since the General Agreement on

was established in 1947, there has been a

Tariff Negotiations and
Renegotiations under the
GATT and the WTO
Procedures and Practices
Second Edition

Anwarul Hoda

Tariff Negotiations and
Renegotiations under the GATT
and the WTO: Procedures and
Practices (2nd edition)

GATT disputes: 1948-1995
Volume 2: Dispute settlement procedures

ISBN 978-92-870-4262-0
Volume 2 compiles documents containing
GATT dispute settlement rules and
procedures, and other selected documents.

By Anwarul Hoda
ISBN 978-1-107-19433-5 (hardback) |
CHF 130

Kong, China

MAKING TRADE WORK FOR THE ENVIRONMENT, PROSPERITY AND RESILIENCE

This publication reviews the evolution of
the procedures and practices relating
to tariff negotiations and renegotiations
since the establishment of the GATT,
encompassing the ITA expansion and
successive enlargements of the European
Union. Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

Making Trade Work for the
Environment, Prosperity and
Resilience

Making trade work for the
environment, prosperity
and resilience

ISBN 978-92-870-4296-5 | CHF 30
This co-publication by the WTO and UN
Environment looks at the interplay between
trade and the environment and identifies
ways to ensure that trade and a healthy
environment reinforce each other.

Can Blockchain Revolutionize
International Trade?

Can Blockchain
revolutionize
international trade?

By Emmanuelle Ganne
ISBN 978-92-870-4760-1 | CHF 40

Mainstreaming Trade to Attain the
Sustainable Development Goals

Mainstreaming trade
to attain the Sustainable
Development Goals

ISBN 978-92-870-4272-9 | CHF 30

This publication seeks to demystify the
Blockchain phenomenon by providing
a basic explanation of the technology. It
analyses the relevance of this technology
for international trade by reviewing how it
is currently used or could be used in the
various areas covered by WTO rules.

By Emmanuelle Ganne

Trade and Poverty Reduction: New
Evidence of Impacts in Developing
Countries

This publication identifies steps towards
ensuring that international trade
contributes to achieving the SDGs. By
continuing to foster stable, predictable
and equitable trading relations across the
world, the WTO is playing an important
role in delivering the SDGs.
WTO in Brief
WTO IN BRIEF

ISBN 978-92-870-4521-8 | CHF 40

NEW EVIDENCE
TRADE AND OF
IMPACTS IN
POVERTY DEVELOPING
REDUCTION: COUNTRIES

JOINT PUBLICATION BY
THE WORLD BANK GROUP AND THE
WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

The publication is a follow-up to “The Role
of Trade in Ending Poverty”, which examined
the challenges the poor face in benefiting
from trade opportunities. The countryspecific approach of this new co-publication
complements the global perspective of the
previous report. Co-published by the WTO
and the World Bank.

Contact with the public
www.wto.org

Volume 2: Dispute Settlement
Procedures

WTO in Brief provides a starting point
for essential information about the WTO.
Concise and practical, this short brochure
is an ideal introduction to the WTO.

In brief, the World Trade Organization (WTO) is
the only international organization dealing with
the global rules of trade. Its main function is to
ensure that trade flows as smoothly, predictably
and freely as possible.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

161

8

-----------------------Page 163 End-----------------------

Outreach

Ec onom ic re s ea rc h ac t iv it ie s
•	 The WTO’s flagship World Trade Report says digital technologies will have a profound
impact on international trade.
•	 Together with the IMF, World Bank and OECD, the WTO organizes a conference on how
trade can promote growth for all.
•	 A new study analyses the impact of Blockchain on international trade.
•	 A WTO-World Bank joint publication shows how gains from trade and inclusiveness can
be part of the same debate.

Background on
economic research
activities
The WTO’s Economic
Research and Statistics
Division organizes regular
seminars and conferences
as well as online forums
involving academics and
researchers in Geneva
and around the world.
These activities include
the Geneva Trade and
Development Workshop
programme. It is responsible
for the WTO’s flagship
publication, the World
Trade Report, which aims
to deepen understanding
about trends in trade,
trade policy issues and the
multilateral trading system.

The WTO’s flagship publication, the World
Trade Report, was launched by DG Azevêdo
at the WTO Public Forum (see page 150) in
October. The report finds that digital technologies,
such as artificial intelligence, 3D printing and
Blockchain, will have a profound impact on global
trade, adding up to 34 percentage points to
trade growth by 2030 thanks to lower costs and
higher productivity. They will also foster trade in
goods such as time-sensitive products, change
patterns of comparative advantage and affect the
complexity and length of global value chains.
The reduction in trade costs could especially
benefit micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
and firms from developing countries, provided
they can adopt digital technologies. “We are living
through an era of unprecedented technological
change … These technologies are reshaping the
economy before our eyes,” said DG Azevêdo said
at the report’s launch.
In October 2018, the Economic Research and
Statistics Division (ERSD) organized with the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World
Bank and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) a conference

during the IMF and World Bank annual meetings in
Bali to discuss how global trade promotes growth
and can benefit everyone. The IMF, World Bank
and the WTO launched a study on “Reinvigorating
Trade and Inclusive Growth”, which says that
trade reform has not kept pace with changes in
services trade, digital technologies and foreign
direct investment. In many other domains, such as
the rural economy, gender and small enterprises,
trade-related reforms are important to foster more
inclusive growth and increase productivity.
In November, ESRD launched “Can Blockchain
Revolutionize International Trade?”. The
publication reviews how the tamper-proof,
decentralized record of transactions is used or can
be used in areas covered by WTO rules and how
the technology could affect cross-border trade. It
discusses the potential for reducing trade costs
and enhancing supply chain transparency, and
reviews challenges that must be addressed before
the technology can be widely used.
In December, ERSD organized a conference
on “Updating Trade Cooperation: An Economic
View”. Leading trade economists and the
ambassadors of Japan, China, the United States

DG Azevêdo
launched the World
Trade Report 2018 at
the Public Forum.

162

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research

-----------------------Page 164 End-----------------------

and Brazil discussed the challenges facing the
international rules-based system and the main
principles and mechanisms that might make it
more sustainable in the future. A WTO-World
Bank co-publication on trade and poverty
was launched in December 2018. The book –
“Trade and Poverty Reduction: New evidence
of impacts in developing countries” – presents
eight case studies on how trade can help to
reduce poverty in developing countries.
In 2018, the Geneva Trade and Development
Workshop hosted 24 events. The programme
provides a forum for the presentation of cuttingedge research and the exchange of ideas,
supports high-quality research and facilitates
outreach to policy-makers.

The WTO and
the World Bank
co-published
“Trade and Poverty
Reduction” in 2018.

W TO E s s ay Awa rd for
You ng Ec onom i s t s
Background on
the WTO Essay
Award for Young
Economists
The WTO established
the annual WTO Essay
Award for Young
Economists in 2009. The
award, which carries a
prize of CHF 5,000, aims
to promote high-quality
economic research on
the WTO and WTOrelated issues and to
reinforce the relationship
between the WTO and
the academic community.

The 2018 WTO Essay Award for Young Economists went to Alonso
de Gortari of Harvard University for his paper “Disentangling Global
Value Chains”. He received a prize of CHF 5,000. The selection panel
named Yuan Mei of the University of Chicago as runner-up for his work
“Regulatory Protection and the Role of International Cooperation”.
The winning paper highlights a new feature of
global value chains (GVCs) – that they employ
specialized inputs tailored to the destination of
final-product shipment. For example, the United
States accounts for 74 per cent of the foreign
inputs in Mexican vehicles sold to US consumers
but for only 18 per cent of the inputs of those
sold to German consumers. Similarly, the share
of German inputs is much higher in cars exported
to Germany than in those exported to the
United States.
The paper suggests that members of GVCs are
substantially more integrated with one another
than traditional measures have shown, with the
implication that traditional studies substantially
underestimate the cost of GVCs being disrupted.
Yuan Mei’s paper studies the effects of product
standards regulation on trade and welfare. The key
finding is that standards can affect fixed as well as
marginal costs of production. The paper shows that
the gains from national treatment – the principle of
giving others the same treatment as that given to
nationals – are relatively small and that the potential
for further gains from international standards
cooperation can be very large.

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research

Alonso de Gortari is a Mexican national. He
received his Ph.D. in economics from Harvard
University in 2018. He is currently an IES postdoctoral fellow at Princeton University. He will be
joining Dartmouth College as Assistant Professor
in 2019.
Yuan Mei is a Chinese national. He received his
Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Chicago
in 2018. He is currently Assistant Professor of
Economics at Singapore Management University.

Selection Panel
The selection panel comprised Dr Avinash Dixit
(Emeritus Professor of Economics, Princeton
University), Dr Robert Koopman (Director,
Economic Research and Statistics Division,
WTO), Dr Robert Staiger (Professor of
Economics, Dartmouth College) and Dr Alberto
Trejos (Professor of Economics, INCAE Business
School). Dr Roberta Piermartini (Economic
Research and Statistics Division, WTO)
coordinated the work of the panel.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

163

8

-----------------------Page 165 End-----------------------

Outreach

Stat i s t ic s ac t iv it ie s
•	 A new WTO data portal was launched to provide a user-friendly comprehensive online
database with a wide range of statistical indicators.
•	 The WTO continued its collaboration with OECD to produce a global dataset of bilateral
trade in services statistics.
•	 The WTO advanced, with EU funding, an experimental data set on global trade in services
by mode of supply.
•	 The Expert Group on Measuring Digital Trade met to discuss the first draft of a handbook
for measuring digital trade.

Background on
statistics activities
The Economic Research
and Statistics Division
supports WTO members
and the WTO Secretariat
with data on economic and
trade policy issues and
with technical advisory
services on market access
negotiations and on the
maintenance of goods
schedules. The division
is the principal supplier
of WTO trade statistics
and information on tariffs
and non-tariff measures.
It provides technical
assistance for trade policy
courses and national
workshops and contributes
to inter-organizational
statistical activities.

WTO data portal
The WTO launched in November its new online
database. The WTO data portal brings together a
wide range of statistical indicators on international
trade, tariffs, non-tariff measures and other WTOrelated information.
The new portal, which replaces the statistics
database, is a central and user-friendly portal
containing all available WTO time series on
merchandise trade, trade in services statistics,
market access indicators (bound, applied and
preferential tariffs), non-tariff information and
other indicators. The portal includes user-friendly
retrieval functionalities, such as data selection,
display and export of all WTO statistical data and
official estimates.

Statistical time series and
publications
The WTO’s flagship statistical publication, “World
Trade Statistical Review 2018”, offers a detailed
analysis of the most recent trends for world trade
in goods and services. It also examines trade in
value-added terms and the latest trade policy
developments, highlighting recent trends in WTO
members’ use of trade-restrictive and tradefacilitating measures (see page 160).
Two other statistical publications were issued.
“Trade Profiles 2018” provides a series of key
indicators on trade in goods and services for

164

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

196 economies. “World Tariff Profiles 2018”,
a joint publication of the WTO, the International
Trade Centre (ITC) and the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), provides comprehensive information
on the tariffs and non-tariff measures imposed by
over 170 countries and customs territories. The
special topic was “Utilization of preferential tariff
treatment of products exported by least-developed
countries”, which examined the preferential market
access granted to LDCs to improve their export
performance and to what extent these preferential
schemes have been utilized.
A new dataset, on trade in services by mode of
supply, funded by the European Union, is being
developed in cooperation with other international
organizations, data compilers and researchers.
The release of this experimental data set is
planned for 2019. This work follows on from
the WTO’s cooperation with the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) to develop a transparent methodology
for creating a global dataset of bilateral trade in
services statistics by main services categories
from 1995 to 2012.
In 2018, the WTO boosted its efforts to improve
dissemination of its statistical products. A bulk
download online application was introduced to allow
users to download all annual data on merchandise
trade and trade in commercial services.

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics

-----------------------Page 166 End-----------------------

Statistical capacity building

International cooperation

The WTO organized a course in Geneva on
trade in services statistics, with an emphasis on
Africa, assisted by experts from the central banks
of France and Italy, the UK Office for National
Statistics, UNCTAD, the OECD, the UN Statistical
Division, the ITC and the Partnership in Statistics
Development in the 21st Century. It focused
on best practices for collecting data in
services sectors.

In October, the Expert Group on Measuring Digital
Trade met under the aegis of the Inter-Agency
Task Force on International Trade Statistics
(TFITS) to discuss the first draft of the “Handbook
on Measuring Digital Trade”, which includes a
conceptual framework for digital cross-border
transactions and a compilation of existing country
experiences. It will be released online in 2019.

In September, the WTO hosted the second
thematic course on trade in value added (TiVA)
and global value chains (GVCs). The objective
was to improve participants’ understanding of the
policy implications of TiVA and the repercussions
of GVCs on trade. During 2018, the WTO
provided technical assistance on trade in services
and GVC-related statistics in several countries.
The WTO, in cooperation with the UN Development
Programme, held a course on goods schedules
negotiations for Uzbekistan’s accession to the
WTO to assist the government in preparing its
goods offer.

The TFITS’s annual meeting discussed ongoing
methodological issues, such as questions
related to classifications and the treatment of
crypto-currencies as legal tender. The group
also discussed creating an online technical
assistance hub.

I-TIP
The WTO’s Integrated Trade Intelligence
Portal (I-TIP) was updated to increase the
information available on non-tariff measures
and on services trade policies. As of the end
of 2018, more than 54,000 measures on trade
in goods had been included.

A national workshop on tariffs and tariff
rationalization was delivered at the request of
Myanmar to strengthen capital-based officials
understanding of WTO-related issues and to
help the country fulfil its notification obligations.
Another workshop familiarized capital-based
officials from Nigeria with online tools for market
access databases as well as requirements
for notifications.

DG Azevêdo
delivered the
WTO’s forecast for
global trade at a
press conference
in April 2018.

8

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

165

-----------------------Page 167 End-----------------------

Outreach

C oop e rat ion w it h ac adem ic i n s t it ut ion s
•	 The WTO Chairs Programme (WCP) generated substantial research on trade-related issues,
including 67 published articles in peer-reviewed journals, six books or book chapters and
80 working papers.
•	 Phase II of the WCP concluded in 2018; an external evaluation will be conducted in
2019 to assess its impact and to ensure the sustainability of the outcomes achieved.
•	 The WCP organized a session at the WTO Public Forum looking at the impact of digital
technology on trade.

Background on WTO
Chairs Programme
The WTO Chairs
Programme was
launched in 2010 to
enhance knowledge and
understanding of the
trading system among
academics and policy
makers in developing
countries. Chair-holders
are selected by a
competitive process. Its
main objectives are to
foster further research on
trade and WTO issues, to
provide teaching support
for the development and
delivery of courses on
trade policy and WTOrelated matters and to
organize public activities
to disseminate research
and promote discussion
regarding international
trade. The WCP is jointly
managed by the WTO’s
Economic Research and
Statistics Division and the
Institute for Training and
Technical Cooperation.

166

Activities of the Chairs Programme
In 2018, the WTO’s Chairs Programme (WCP)
helped 26 students develop PhD or Masters
theses on WTO-related issues and trained
about 2,600 students. Forty-four new or
updated courses and diploma programmes were
proposed and developed. The chairs arranged
62 outreach activities, attracting more than 1,400
participants, among them more than 370 officials
or policy-makers.
The research output of the WCP was substantial in
2018. Chairs produced some 67 published articles
in peer-reviewed journals, six books or book
chapters and 80 working papers on trade, WTO
topics and subjects of importance to the WTO.
At the WTO’s Public Forum (see page 150), the
WCP organized a session looking at the impact of
digital technology on trade and the issues facing
countries when adapting to the new trade era. The
panel included WTO chairs and representatives
from the Geneva trade policy community.
WCP chairs were active in many conferences,
where they reached out to national government
agencies, international organizations, the business
community, media and other academics to
underline the importance of trade. Activities
included a trade workshop for the Middle East
and North Africa region in Carthage, Tunisia, in
March. It was organized by the Tunis Business
School (University of Tunis), a WCP member,
in partnership with other organizations and
covered global value chains, trade agreements,
the competitiveness of firms and the informal
trade sector. In Buenos Aires, 30 participants
attended a course on trade and climate change in
December at the Latin American School of Social
Sciences, a WCP member.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

The WTO Secretariat participated in five technical
assistance activities organized by chairs, such
as academic conferences, seminars and
specialized courses.
The WCP e-Platform, the dedicated WCP
website launched in December 2017, continued
to facilitate the sharing of information, encourage
discussion and promote internet-based networking
among institutions and individuals associated with
the programme.

Concluding Phase II of the WCP
The WCP was launched in 2010, with two phases
having run for four years each. Phase II ended in
2018. An external and independent evaluation
of the WCP is scheduled to take place in 2019.
The evaluation is to assess the performance of the
WCP, identifying its impact, lessons learned, best
practices and steps to ensure the sustainability of
the outcomes achieved.
The result of the evaluation is expected to be
presented at the Annual Conference of the WCP
scheduled to be held in July 2019. It will provide an
important guide to the future direction of the WCP.
The Advisory Board, an external body composed
of experienced scholars, has recommended that
the WTO Secretariat seek an extension of the
programme to Phase lll after the evaluation
takes place.

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

-----------------------Page 168 End-----------------------

The WTO Chairs
Programme
website facilitates
the sharing of
information and
discussion among
participants.

Academic Support Programme
In 2018, 12 activities were implemented under
the Academic Support Programme (ASP),
which engages with academic institutions from
developing countries and least-developed
countries that are not part of the WTO’s Chairs
Programme. Activities over the year included
lectures delivered by WTO staff for master’s and
bachelor degree courses.

The WTO provided staff to act as panellists
in regional inter-university competitions and
for the final round of the competition at WTO
headquarters (see page 122).
The ASP organized presentations to academic
audiences. In addition, the WTO continued
encouraging universities to register lecturers
as participants in online courses offered by
the WTO’s E-campus.

Half of the activities were related to supporting
university competitions on WTO law and
increasing knowledge of dispute settlement
procedures among students and professors.

8

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

167

-----------------------Page 169 End-----------------------

Outreach

Universities participating
in the WTO Chairs Programme

Turkey
Istanbul Bilgi University

Phase I Chairs
Phase II Chairs

Tunisia
University of Tunis,
Tunis Business School

Morocco
Mohammed V-Souissi
University, Faculty of Legal,
Economic and Social Sciences

Mexico
Autonomous Institute of
Technology, Centre for
International Economic Law

Barbados
University of the West Indies,
Shridath Ramphal Centre for
International Trade Law, Policy
and Services

Brazil
Getulio Vargas Foundation,
São Paulo School of Economics

Senegal
Cheikh Anta Diop University,
Faculty of Economics
and Management

Chile
University of Chile, Institute
of International Studies

Benin
University Abomey-Calavi

Argentina
Latin American Faculty of
Social Sciences (FLACSO)

168

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

-----------------------Page 170 End-----------------------

Russian Federation
St. Petersburg State University,
Faculty of Economics,
World Economy Department

China
Shanghai Institute of Foreign
Trade (SIFT), School of WTO
Research and Education

Jordan
University of Jordan,
Faculty of Business

Oman
Sultan Qaboos University

Kenya 
University of Nairobi,
School of Economics

Singapore
National University of
Singapore, Faculty of Law

Mauritius
University of Mauritius,
Department of Economics
and Statistics

8

Indonesia
Universitas Gadjah Mada,
Centre for World Trade Studies

South Africa
North-West University

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

169

-----------------------Page 171 End-----------------------

S e c reta r iat a nd budget
WTO Secretariat
WTO Secretariat organizational chart

173

Allocation of staff by division

174

WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender

175

Percentage of WTO staff by professional/support category

175

WTO staff on regular budget by gender and nationality

176

Budget, finance and administration

178

Consolidated budget for 2019

179

Members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the
WTO Secretariat and the Appellate Body Secretariat 2019

180

Background on
Secretariat and
budget
The WTO Secretariat
has over 600 regular
staff who coordinate the
activities of the WTO.
Most of the WTO’s
annual budget consists
of contributions by its
members

170

172

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

-----------------------Page 172 End-----------------------

9
DG Azevêdo with participants in the
2018 Young Professionals Programme.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

171

-----------------------Page 173 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

W TO S e c reta r iat
•	 WTO staff numbers increased from 625 to 627 in 2018.
•	 The Human Resources Division continued to respond to the evolving needs of the
Secretariat by reallocating resources to high-priority areas.
•	 The WTO launched “Right to Work in an Environment free from Discrimination, Harassment
and Abuse of Authority”, a policy to strengthen protection of staff members’ rights.
•	 A “Wellness” programme was launched in the WTO Secretariat to promote the health and
fitness of staff.

The WTO’s recruitment activity remains high, with
41 vacancies filled in 2018. In 2018, the number
of staff increased slightly to 627 from 625 the
previous year. WTO Secretariat staff come from
84 WTO members, up from 83 previously.
The Secretariat is composed mostly of economists,
lawyers and others with a specialization in
international trade policy. There are also specialists
in information technology, communications,
statistics, finance, human resources and language
services. The working languages of the WTO are
English, French and Spanish.
Secretariat staff on the regular budget comprise
professional and support service categories.
Professional staff account for 62 per cent of
the total and support service staff 38 per cent.
Women continue to outnumber men at the WTO,
by 334 to 293. Of the professional staff, 44 per
cent are female and 56 per cent male.
The Human Resources Division continues to
respond to the evolving needs of the Secretariat
by reallocating resources to high-priority
areas. Staffing measures take into account the

New recruits

Due to the increase in dispute settlement activity,
30 posts have been redeployed to the legal
divisions. At the end of 2018, the number of
permanent positions in the legal divisions stood at
25 in the Appellate Body, 34 in the Legal Affairs
Division and 31 in the Rules Division, up from 17,
23 and 20, respectively, in 2014, when the period
of reallocation began.
New methods of informal resolution of workplace
disputes, initiated in 2016, continue to be available.
The WTO is also considering using external
specialists for psychological and social support,
which will be another avenue open to staff seeking
assistance in addition to the external and internal
mediators, the Head of the Office of Internal
Oversight (OIO) and the Legal Counsel to the
Administration. The OIO took over functions
formerly exercised by the Office of Internal Audit.
In 2018, a policy on the “Right to Work in an
Environment free from Discrimination, Harassment
and Abuse of Authority” was launched. This aims at

Nationality: French
Joining date: 1 May 2018

works in forensic toxicology. A stint in pharmaceutical
advertising was followed by positions at the World Health
Organization’s International Agency for Research on
Cancer and then at the International Organization for
Standardization, where I began to observe the importance
of the WTO in cases where international standards were
used as technical barriers to trade. When the opportunity
arose to join as Head of the Documentation Branch at the
WTO, I took it.

I began my career as a chemist, working in the polymer
and then pharma industries. However, I have always
had a passion for words, and so I made the jump to
publishing, first working as an editor in the world of
pharma and chemistry patents, then on major reference

In my current post, I look after the Document Management,
Monitoring and Production section and the Graphics and
Event Design, Print and Distribution section. Quality and
timeliness are the key factors to deliver on. I believe in a
“Right first time, on time” approach.

Laurent Galichet
Head of the Documentation Branch
Languages, Documentation and Information
Management Division

172

limitations imposed by WTO members, including
the overall cap on the budget and personnel.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

-----------------------Page 174 End-----------------------

promoting a more harmonious and efficient work
environment through the improved protection
of staff members’ rights. The protection applies
to all staff members, whether on a regular,
fixed-term or short-term contract, as well as to
interns, participants in the young professionals
programme and consultants. To complement
this policy, an e-learning tool is being developed
by the Secretariat in consultation with a group
of staff members.
The Young Professionals Programme aims to
increase the number of professionals in the
WTO Secretariat from developing and leastdeveloped countries not currently represented.

Thirteen new young professionals joined the
WTO in January 2019 to work in 12 divisions
(see page 143).
The new medical service, with a newly
appointed doctor in 2017, is providing a more
comprehensive health approach. It offers regular
medical appointments, taking into account age
and risk factors, as well as guidance to staff
with their health concerns. Positive feedback
has been received for the “Wellness Challenge”
launched in 2018, which aims at promoting
health and fitness among staff. Some 50 staff
members benefited from the programme.

Figure 1: WTO Secretariat organizational chart, as of 31 December 2018
Enhanced Integrated
Framework Secretariat
Ratnakar Adhikari

Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo

Appellate Body
Secretariat
Werner Zdouc

Office of the Director-General
Tim Yeend

Council and Trade
Negotiations
Committee
Victor do Prado

Deputy Director-General
Karl BRAUNER

Information and
External Relations
Keith Rockwell

Deputy Director-General
Yonov Frederick AGAH

Office of Internal Oversight
Benoit de Schoutheete

Deputy Director-General
Alan WOLFF

Deputy Director-General
Xiaozhun YI

Legal Affairs
John Adank

Development
Shishir Priyadarshi

Agriculture and
Commodities
Edwini Kessie

Market Access
Suja Rishikesh Mavroidis

Rules
Clarisse Morgan

Institute for Training and
Technical Cooperation
Bridget Chilala

Trade and Environment
Aik Hoe Lim

Intellectual Property,
Government Procurement
and Competition
Antony Taubman

Administration and
General Services
Nthisana Phillips

Trade Policies Review
Willy Alfaro

Accessions
Maika Oshikawa

Trade in Services
and Investment
Xiaolin Chai

Information Technology
Solutions Division
Fabrice Boudou

Economic Research
and Statistics
Robert Koopman

Human Resources
Christian Dahoui

Languages, Documentation
and Information Management
Josep Bonet

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

9

173

-----------------------Page 175 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Figure 2: Allocation of staff by division, as of 31 December 2018 (number of posts)*

Grades 1-10
Accessions Division

Senior management and directors

Total
8.0

7.0

Administration and General Services Division

63.6

62.6

Agriculture and Commodities Division

18.8

17.8

Appellate Body Secretariat

26.0

25.0

Council and Trade Negotiations Committee Division

14.0

13.0

Senior Management (DG, DDGs and their assistants)

9.0

4.0

Development Division

16.8

15.8

Economic Research and Statistics Division

39.6

38.6

Human Resources Division
Information and External Relations Division

27.2

28.2

29.8

30.8

Information Technology Solutions Division

41.8

40.8

Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation

32.1

31.1

Intellectual Property, Government Procurement and Competition Division

16.9

15.9

Languages, Documentation and Information Management Division

119.9

118.9

Legal Affairs Division

34.0

33.0

Market Access Division

17.8

16.8

Office of Internal Oversight

2.0

2.0

Office of the Director-General

15.0

14.0

Rules Division

29.6

28.6

Trade and Environment Division

12.6

11.6

Trade in Services and Investment Division

17.1

16.1

Trade Policies Review Division

51.9

50.9

0

30

Grand total

60

90

120

150

620.5

25

645.5

*includes posts not yet filled. Figures in decimals indicate staff members who work a percentage of the working week (e.g. 80 per cent).

New recruits
Ivy X. Zhang
Communications Officer | Information and
External Relations Division
Nationality: Chinese
Joining date: 1 November 2018
I graduated from Fudan University, Shanghai, and Green
Templeton College, Oxford University. My career began at
the Los Angeles Times Shanghai Bureau, where I closely
followed China´s economic and social transformation after
its WTO accession. Subsequently I worked at the World
Economic Forum, where I managed the Global Agenda

174

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Council on China and was part of the team that designed
programmes for the Davos annual meetings and for the
regional summits in Asia.
In my current role at the WTO, I work with colleagues to
create communication products, with a view to interacting
effectively with WTO stakeholders and facilitating
awareness about what the WTO does. In the Information
and External Relations Division, we are the interface
between the WTO and the world, and we strive to
enhance the organization’s reputation and to gain public
support for the multilateral trading system. Our role has
never been more important!

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

-----------------------Page 176 End-----------------------

Figure 3: WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender, as of 31 December 2018
241

4

32

3

11

3

4

35

16

11

5

57

56

334

7

8

31

Men

11

9
10
11

47
38

66

51

8

293

10

22

6

7
9

Women

5
30

55

6

4

14

12
DDG

44

DG

Figure 4: Percentage of WTO staff by professional/support category
100%
90%

12.7%
21.3%
27.3%

80%
70%

28.4%

33.8%

60%

34.6%

Professional women
Professional men

50%

Support women
Support men

40%
42.5%
30%

30.5%
26.0%

20%
10%

16.3%

14.4%

01.01.1995

31.12.2005

12.1%

0%
31.12.2018

New recruits
Mark Henderson
Economic Affairs Officer
Market Access Division
Nationality: British
Joining date: 1 August 2018
My route to the WTO started in 2010 when I joined a
trade project supporting China’s integration into the WTO
system. Since then I have worked continuously on trade
and development issues, including in Brussels as an EU
negotiator on the UN Sustainable Development Goals
and on free trade agreement chapters. I have observed

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

an unprecedented public interest in the UK in trade policy
and trade negotiations in recent years – consequently,
more people there know of the WTO than ever!
I am now working in the Market Access Division on the
Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) Facility, supporting
developing and least-developed countries in their efforts to
implement the TFA and simplify border procedures.
I see it as a real privilege to continue combining my
knowledge and experience of trade policy with my project
management background to assist WTO members as
they seek to use the TFA to drive inclusive growth and
sustainable development.

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

175

9

-----------------------Page 177 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Figure 5: WTO staff on regular budget by gender and nationality, as of 31 December 2018

334 women
293 men
Total 627

North America
Member

Women

Men

Total

Canada

3

11

14

Mexico

2

6

8

United States
of America

21

13

34

Grand total

26

30

56

South/Central America and
the Caribbean

176

Member

Women

Men

Argentina

3

5

Total
8

Barbados

0

1

1

Bolivia,
Plurinational
State of

0

2

2

14

Brazil

6

8

Chile

1

0

1

Colombia

3

4

7

Costa Rica

1

1

2

Cuba

1

0

1

Ecuador

1

1

2

Guatemala

2

0

2

Honduras

2

0

2

Jamaica

1

1

2

Paraguay

1

0

1

Peru

5

4

9

Trinidad and
Tobago

1

0

1

Uruguay

0

3

3

Venezuela,
Bolivarian
Republic of

1

3

4

Grand total

29

33

62

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

-----------------------Page 178 End-----------------------

Europe
Member

Women

Men

Total

Austria

2

2

4

Belgium

2

2

4

Member
Moldova,
Republic of

Women

Men

Total

1

0

1

Bulgaria

1

4

5

Netherlands

1

5

6

Croatia

1

0

1

Norway

0

2

2

Czech Republic

1

0

1

Poland

3

1

4

Denmark

2

1

3

Portugal

0

4

4

Estonia

1

0

1

Romania

2

0

2

Finland

2

3

5

2

1

3

France

Russian
Federation
Spain

30

14

44

Sweden

1

2

3

Switzerland

6

7

13

100

68

168

Germany

7

13

20

Greece

3

2

5

Hungary

0

2

2

Ireland

11

1

12

Italy

11

12

23

Lithuania

0

1

1

Ukraine

2

1

3

United Kingdom

40

12

52

Grand total

232

160

392

Asia
Member

Africa
Women

Men

Benin

Member

0

2

Total
2

Botswana

1

0

1

Cameroon

1

0

1

Chad

0

1

1

Democratic
Republic
of the Congo

1

2

3

Egypt

3

1

4

Ghana

0

1

1

Guinea

0

1

1

Kenya

1

0

1

Malawi

0

1

1

Mauritius

0

2

2

Morocco

1

3

4

Nigeria

0

1

1

Rwanda

0

1

1

Senegal

0

1

1

Women

Men

Bangladesh

0

1

1

China

9

7

16
14

India

3

11

Japan

2

3

5

Jordan

1

0

1

Korea,
Republic of

4

0

4

Malaysia

0

2

2

Nepal

0

1

1

Pakistan

0

4

4

Philippines

6

9

15

Sri Lanka

2

0

2

Turkey

1

3

4

Grand total

28

41

69

Seychelles

0

1

1

South Africa

0

1

1

Tanzania

1

0

1

Member

Women

Men

The Gambia

2

0

2

Australia

2

7

9

Tunisia

2

2

4

New Zealand

0

1

1

Grand total

2

8

10

Uganda

1

0

1

Zambia

1

0

1

Zimbabwe

2

0

2

Grand total

17

21

38

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

Total

Oceania
Total

9

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

177

-----------------------Page 179 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Budget , f i n a nc e a nd ad m i n i s t rat ion
•	 The Committee reviewed reports on the WTO’s financial and budgetary situation
and examined the mid-term review of the budget for 2018-19.
•	 The Committee made a recommendation with respect to the utilization of the
budgetary surplus.

Background on
budget, finance and
administration
The Committee on
Budget, Finance and
Administration monitors
the WTO’s budgetary
and financial matters.
It considers issues
concerning human
resources management,
hears progress reports
on the WTO pension plan
and deals with financial
and administrative
matters concerning the
WTO Secretariat. The
Committee reports to the
General Council.

In 2018, the Committee on Budget, Finance
and Administration held six formal meetings
and submitted related reports to the General
Council. The Committee reviewed and took note
of quarterly reports on the financial situation
of the regular budget of the WTO and extrabudgetary funds, regular updates on the arrears
of contributions from WTO members and
observers, an update on the WTO pension plan,
and a report on the WTO medical plan and after
service health insurance (ASHI) contributions.
The Committee also reviewed and took note of
regular updates on external audit findings, the
WTO risk management report, the annual report
on diversity in the WTO Secretariat, the human
resources annual report on grading structure
and promotions, the salary survey of 2017, the
2017 report of the Office of Internal Oversight,
and the WTO Strategic Facilities Plan.
The Committee took note of outstanding
contributions from WTO members and observers
and invited the General Council to urge members
and observers under administrative measures to
liquidate their arrears.
The Committee made a recommendation to
the General Council for the suspension of
administrative measures for the Central African
Republic. The member agreed to liquidate all
arrears over a period of 30 years. The General
Council approved the recommendation.

178

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

The Chief of the Office of Internal Oversight (OIO)
presented his report on the activity plan conducted
by the OIO from July 2017 to June 2018.
The Committee also examined the mid-term review
of the budget for 2018-19 of the WTO and the
International Trade Centre.
In December 2018, the Committee made a
recommendation to the General Council on the
2019 scale of WTO members’ contributions
to the regular budget, using a formula based
on updated trade statistics (see below). It also
made a recommendation that the accumulated
budgetary surplus as at 31 December 2017 be
transferred to the Working Capital Fund and that
an investment policy be developed to govern the
investment management of the Capital Fund.
The Committee also approved procedures for
disclosure of non-official documents of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and
for making them available on the internet.

WTO budget 2019
The WTO derives its income from annual
contributions from its 164 members (see Tables
1 and 2) and miscellaneous income. These
contributions are based on a formula that takes
into account each member’s share of international
trade. Miscellaneous income mainly consists of
contributions from observer countries, income
from the sale of publications and rental of
meeting rooms.

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

-----------------------Page 180 End-----------------------

The WTO’s budget for 2019 is:
WTO Secretariat:

Appellate Body and its Secretariat:

The total WTO budget is

CHF 189,624,000

CHF 7,579,900

CHF 197,203,900

Table 1: Consolidated budget for 2019
Section

Budget 2019
(in thousand CHF)

Staff expenditure (including staff remuneration, pension and post‑employment benefits, health and invalidity insurance,
family and international benefits)

131,415

Temporary assistance (including short-term staff, consultants, translators, panellists and Appellate Body member fees)

17,281

General services (including telecommunications and post, contractual services and maintenance, energy and
supplies, documentation and publication)

15,773

Travel and hospitality

7,450

Implementing partners (includes any activity or event partly/jointly/fully funded by the WTO but executed by a thirdparty organization)

213

Capital expenditure (including procurement of fixed assets and rental and leasing of equipment)

2,349

Financial expenditure (including bank and interest charges and building loan reimbursement)

1,280

Contributions to International Trade Centre and special reserves (including Appellate Body operating fund, Ministerial
Conference operating fund and Building Renovation fund)
Grand total

21,443

197,204

9

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

179

-----------------------Page 181 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Table 2: WTO members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the WTO Secretariat and the
Appellate Body Secretariat 2019 (in Swiss Francs with a minimum contribution of 0.015%)
Member

2019
2019
Contribution Contribution
CHF
%

Afghanistan

46,920

2019
2019
Contribution Contribution
CHF
%

0.024%

Ecuador

228,735
496,570

0.254%

78,200

0.040%

Albania

41,055

0.021%

Egypt

Angola

428,145

0.219%

El Salvador

0.117%

29,325

0.015%

Estonia

175,950

0.090%

733,125

0.375%

Eswatini

29,325

0.015%

Armenia

37,145

0.019%

European Union

0

0.000%

Australia

2,594,285

1.327%

Fiji

29,325

0.015%

Austria

Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina

1

1,911,990

0.978%

Finland

877,795

0.449%

Bahrain, Kingdom of

246,330

0.126%

France

7,440,730

3.806%

Bangladesh

338,215

0.173%

Gabon

60,605

0.031%

29,325

0.015%

The Gambia

29,325

0.015%

3,646,075

1.865%

Georgia

Barbados
Belgium

70,380

0.036%

13,882,455

7.101%
0.085%

Belize

29,325

0.015%

Germany

Benin

29,325

0.015%

Ghana

166,175

103,615

0.053%

Greece

608,005

0.311%

74,290

0.038%

Grenada

29,325

0.015%

2,394,875

1.225%

Guatemala

146,625

0.075%

72,335

0.037%

Guinea

29,325

0.015%

Bolivia, Plurinational State of
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam

310,845

0.159%

Guinea-Bissau

29,325

0.015%

Burkina Faso

33,235

0.017%

Guyana

29,325

0.015%

Burundi

29,325

0.015%

Haiti

29,325

0.015%

Cabo Verde

29,325

0.015%

Honduras

76,245

0.039%

105,570

0.054%

Hong Kong, China

5,427,080

2.776%

70,380

0.036%

Hungary

991,185

0.507%

4,922,690

2.518%

Iceland

76,245

0.039%

Bulgaria

Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic

29,325

0.015%

India

4,445,670

2.274%

Chad

39,100

0.020%

Indonesia

1,722,355

0.881%

Ireland

2,361,640

1.208%

842,605

0.431%

5,096,685

2.607%

52,785

0.027%

Chile

731,170

0.374%

China

19,737,680

10.096%

Israel

563,040

0.288%

Italy

78,200

0.040%

Jamaica

Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica

152,490

0.078%

Japan

7,896,245

4.039%

Côte d'Ivoire

109,480

0.056%

Jordan

168,130

0.086%

Croatia

220,915

0.113%

Kazakhstan

570,860

0.292%

127,075

0.065%

5,777,025

2.955%

645,150

0.330%

41,055

0.021%

Cuba

136,850

0.070%

Kenya

Cyprus

121,210

0.062%

Korea, Republic of

1,388,050

0.710%

Kuwait, the State of

105,570

0.054%

Kyrgyz Republic

1,517,080

0.776%

Lao People's Democratic Republic

29,325

0.015%

Latvia

29,325

0.015%

164,220

0.084%

Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic

1

Member

37,145

0.019%

160,310

0.082%

Lesotho

29,325

0.015%

Liberia

29,325

0.015%

The European Union is not subject to contributions. However, its 28 members are assessed individually. The total share of members of the European Union represents 33.6%
of the total assessed contributions of 2019.

180

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

-----------------------Page 182 End-----------------------

Member

Liechtenstein

2019
2019
Contribution Contribution
CHF
%
64,515

Member

2019
2019
Contribution Contribution
CHF
%

0.033%

Saint Lucia

29,325

0.015%

Lithuania

316,710

0.162%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

29,325

0.015%

Luxembourg

930,580

0.476%

Samoa

29,325

0.015%

Macao, China

256,105

0.131%

Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of

2,326,450

1.190%

Madagascar

31,280

0.016%

Senegal

46,920

0.024%

Malawi

29,325

0.015%

Seychelles

29,325

0.015%

Malaysia

1,966,730

1.006%

Sierra Leone

29,325

0.015%

Maldives

29,325

0.015%

Singapore

4,774,110

2.442%

Mali

31,280

0.016%

Slovak Republic

768,315

0.393%

136,850

0.070%

Slovenia

303,025

0.155%

29,325

0.015%

Solomon Islands

29,325

0.015%

Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius

58,650

0.030%

South Africa

3,720,365

1.903%

Spain

37,145

0.019%

Sri Lanka

Mongolia

54,740

0.028%

Suriname

Montenegro

29,325

0.015%

Sweden

Mexico
Moldova, Republic of

Morocco

973,590

0.498%

3,663,670

1.874%

173,995

0.089%

29,325

0.015%

2,068,390

1.058%

353,855

0.181%

Switzerland

3,710,590

1.898%

70,380

0.036%

Chinese Taipei

3,384,105

1.731%

Myanmar

115,345

0.059%

Tajikistan

29,325

0.015%

Namibia

50,830

0.026%

Tanzania

95,795

0.049%

2,404,650

1.230%

29,325

0.015%

Mozambique

Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand

44,965

0.023%

Thailand

5,745,745

2.939%

Togo

459,425

0.235%

Tonga

29,325

0.015%

Nicaragua

54,740

0.028%

Trinidad and Tobago

117,300

0.060%

Niger

29,325

0.015%

Tunisia

199,410

0.102%

Nigeria

656,880

0.336%

Turkey

2,011,695

1.029%

Norway

1,411,510

0.722%

Uganda

54,740

0.028%

627,555

0.321%

3,071,305

1.571%

Republic of North Macedonia

52,785

0.027%

Ukraine

Oman

383,180

0.196%

United Arab Emirates

Pakistan

346,035

0.177%

United Kingdom

Panama

263,925

0.135%

United States of America

62,560

0.032%

Uruguay

144,670

0.074%

111,435

0.057%

Vanuatu

29,325

0.015%

Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru

418,370

0.214%

Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

Philippines

719,440

0.368%

Viet Nam

2,142,680

1.096%

Poland

7,446,595

3.809%

22,660,405

11.591%

570,860

0.292%

1,401,735

0.717%

Yemen

89,930

0.046%

Portugal

772,225

0.395%

Zambia

86,020

0.044%

Qatar

793,730

0.406%

Zimbabwe

54,740

0.028%

TOTAL

195,500,000

100.00%

Romania

688,160

0.352%

3,937,370

2.014%

Rwanda

29,325

0.015%

Saint Kitts and Nevis

29,325

0.015%

Russian Federation

9

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

181

-----------------------Page 183 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

How t he W TO i s s t r uc t u red
The WTO’s top-level decision-making body is the Ministerial Conference, which usually
meets every two years.

Below this is the General Council (normally
ambassadors and heads of delegation in Geneva,
and sometimes officials sent from members’
capitals), which meets several times a year in the
Geneva headquarters. The General Council also
meets as the Trade Policy Review Body and the
Dispute Settlement Body.
At the next level, the Goods Council, Services
Council and Intellectual Property (TRIPS)
Council report to the General Council.

Numerous specialized committees, working
groups and working parties deal with the
individual agreements and other areas such
as the environment, development, membership
applications and regional trade agreements.
All WTO members may participate in all
councils and committees, with the exceptions
of the Appellate Body, Dispute Settlement
panels and plurilateral committees.

Ministerial
Conference

Committees on:
Trade and Environment
Trade and Development
Sub-Committee on Least-Developed Countries
Regional Trade Agreements
Balance of Payments Restrictions
Budget, Finance and Administration

General Council
meeting as Dispute
Settlement Body

Working parties on:
Accession
Working groups on:
Trade, debt and finance
Trade and technology transfer

General
Council

Inactive
Relationship between Trade and Investment
Interaction between Trade and
Competition Policy
Transparency in Government
Procurement

:
Plurilateral
Information
Technology
Agreement
Committee

Council for
Trade in
Goods

Council for
Trade-Related
Aspects of
Intellectual
Property Rights

Committees on:
Market Access
Agriculture
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
Technical Barriers to Trade
Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures
Anti-Dumping Practices
Customs Valuation
Rules of Origin
Import Licensing
Trade-Related Investment Measures
Safeguards
Trade Facilitation
Working party on:
State Trading Enterprises

182

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

General Council
meeting as
Trade Policy
Review Body

Appellate Body
Dispute settlement
panels

Plurilaterals:
Trade in Civil
Aircraft Committee
Government
Procurement
Committee

Council for
Trade in
Services

Committees on:
Trade in Financial Services
Specific Commitments
Working parties on:
Domestic Regulation
General Agreement on
Trade in Services
Rules

Trade
Negotiations
Committee

Doha Development Agenda:
Trade Negotiations
Committee and its bodies
Special sessions of:
Services Council / TRIPS Council /
Dispute Settlement Body / Agriculture
Committee and Cotton Sub-Committee /
Trade and Development Committee /
Trade and Environment Committee
Negotiating groups on:
Market Access
Rules

How the WTO is structured
www.wto.org

-----------------------Page 184 End-----------------------

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2018)
Chairpersons of the General Council
and bodies reporting to it

Chairpersons of the General Council
and bodies reporting to it

General Council

Ambassador Junichi Ihara (Japan)

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Goods

Dispute Settlement Body

Ambassador Sunanta Kangvalkulkij
(Thailand)

Committee on Agriculture

Ms Débora Cumes (Guatemala)

Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices

Ms Karine Mahjoubi Erikstein (Norway)

Trade Policy Review Body

Ambassador Eloi Laourou (Benin)

Committee on Customs Valuation

Mr Yuichiro Okumura (Japan)

Council for Trade in Goods

Ambassador Stephen de Boer
(Canada)

Committee on Import Licensing

Ms Lorena Rivera Orjuela (Colombia)

Council for Trade in Services

Ambassador Alfredo Suescum
(Panama)

Committee on Market Access

Ms Zsófia Tvaruskó (Hungary)

Committee on Rules of Origin

Council for Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights

Ambassador Walter Werner
(Germany)

Ms Thembekile Mlangeni
(South Africa)

Committee on Safeguards

Committee on Trade and Environment

Ambassador Sondang Anggraini
(Indonesia)

Mr Hyouk Woo Kwon (Republic of
Korea)

Ambassador Diego Aulestia (Ecuador)

Committee on Sanitary
and Phytosanitary Measures

Ms Noncedo Vutula (South Africa)

Committee on Trade and Development
Committee on Balance-of-Payments
Restrictions

Ambassador Claudio de la Puente
(Peru)

Committee on Subsidies
and Countervailing Measures

Mr Luis Adolfo Fernández (Costa Rica)

Committee on Regional Trade
Agreements

Ambassador Julian Braithwaite
(United Kingdom)

Committee on Technical Barriers
to Trade

Ms Kate Swan (New Zealand)

Committee on Budget, Finance
and Administration

Ambassador Juan Esteban Aguirre
Martínez (Paraguay)

Committee on Trade Facilitation

Ms Dalia Kadišienė (Lithuania)

Ms Sabine Böhlke-Möller (Namibia)

Committee on Trade-Related
Investment Measures

Ms Carrie Wu (Chinese Taipei)

Working Group on Trade and
Transfer of Technology

Ambassador Mohammad Haqjo
(Afghanistan)

Working Party on State
Trading Enterprises

Mr Antonius Yudi Triantoro (Indonesia)

Working Group on Trade,
Debt and Finance
Trade Negotiations Committee

Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
(WTO)

Committee of Participants on the
Expansion of Trade in Information
Technology Products

Mr Muhammad Nur Hadri Bin Sopri
(Singapore)

Chairpersons of bodies established under the Trade
Negotiations Committee

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Services
Committee on Trade in
Financial Services

Mr Jean Marc Van Dril (Switzerland)

Working Party on Domestic Regulation

Mr Henning Enval (Sweden)

Committee on Specific Commitments

Mr Nurbek Maksutov (Kyrgyz Republic)

Working Party on GATS Rules

Mr Felipe Henriquez Palma (Chile)

Negotiating Group on Market Access

Ambassador Didier Chambovey
(Switzerland)

Negotiating Group on Rules

Ambassador Roberto Zapata Barradas
(Mexico)

Special Session of the Council for
Trade in Services

Ambassador Zhanar Aitzhanova
(Kazakhstan)

Special Session of the Council
for TRIPS

Ambassador Dacio Castillo
(Honduras)

Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft

Mr Hsiao-Yin Wu (Chinese Taipei)

Special Session of the Dispute
Settlement Body

Ambassador Coly Seck (Senegal)

Committee on Government
Procurement

Mr Carlos Vanderloo (Canada)

Special Session of the Committee
on Agriculture

Ambassador John Deep Ford (Guyana)

Sub-Committee on Cotton

Ambassador John Deep Ford (Guyana)

Special Session of the Committee
on Trade and Environment

Ambassador Syed Tauqir Shah
(Pakistan)

Special Session of the Committee
on Trade and Development

Ambassador Tan Yee Woan
(Singapore)

Chairpersons of Committees of Plurilateral Agreements

9

WTO Chairpersons
www.wto.org

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

183

-----------------------Page 185 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Membership of the WTO: 164 members (as of 31 December 2018)
Member1

Year of
accession

Afghanistan
Albania
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Bahrain, Kingdom of
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bolivia, Plurinational State of
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cabo Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
European Union
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
The Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
1

2016
2000
1996
1995
1995
2003
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
2008
1995
1996
1995
2001
1995
1997
1995
1995
2000
1995
1995
1995
1997
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1999
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1996
2000
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995

Member1
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Republic of
Kuwait, the State of
Kyrgyz Republic
Latvia
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Lesotho
Liberia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova, Republic of
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia, Republic of
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa

Year of
accession
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2000
2015
1995
1995
1995
1998
1999
2013
1995
2016
1995
2001
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2001
1997
2012
1995
1995
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
2003
1995
2000
1995
1997
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
2012
1996
1996
1995
1995
2012

Member1

Year of
accession

Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Chinese Taipei
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States of America
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Countries seeking to join the WTO
(as of 31 December 2018)
Algeria
Andorra
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Belarus
Bhutan
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Comoros
Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia
Iran
Iraq
Lebanese Republic
Libya
São Tomé and Principe
Serbia
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Syrian Arab Republic
Timor-Leste
Uzbekistan

M
 embers are mostly states but can also be customs territories with full autonomy over their external commercial relations.

184

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Membership of the WTO
www.wto.org/members

2005
1995
2015
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2002
2013
1995
1995
1995
2007
1995
1995
1995
1995
2008
1996
1995
1995
1995
2012
1995
2007
2014
1995
1995

-----------------------Page 186 End-----------------------

A bb rev iat ion s
ADP	
ASEAN 	
CTD 	
DDA 	
DSB 	
DSU 	
EIF 	
EU 	
FAO 	
FDI 	
GATS 	
GATT 	
GDP 	
GIs 	
GPA 	
HS 	
ICC 	
ILO 	
IPU 	
ISO 	
ITA 	
ITC 	
ITTC 	
ITU 	

anti-dumping practices
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Committee on Trade and Development
Doha Development Agenda
Dispute Settlement Body
Dispute Settlement Understanding
Enhanced Integrated Framework
European Union
Food and Agriculture Organization
foreign direct investment
General Agreement on Trade in Services
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
gross domestic product
geographical indications
Government Procurement Agreement
Harmonized System
International Chamber of Commerce
International Labour Organization
Inter-Parliamentary Union
International Organization for Standardization
Information Technology Agreement
International Trade Centre
Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation
International Telecommunication Union

LDCs 	
least-developed countries
MEAs 	 multilateral environmental agreements
MFN 	
most-favoured nation
NAMA 	 non-agricultural market access
NGO 	
non-governmental organization
NTMs 	 non-tariff measures
OECD 	 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
PSI 	
Agreement on Preshipment Inspection
PTAs 	
preferential trade arrangements
RTAs 	
regional trade agreements
SCM 	
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
SG 	
Agreement on Safeguards
SMEs 	 small and medium-sized enterprises
sanitary and phytosanitary measures
SPS 	
STDF 	
Standards and Trade Development Facility
SVE 	
small, vulnerable economy
technical barriers to trade
TBT 	
TNC 	
Trade Negotiations Committee
TPR 	
Trade Policy Review
TPRM 	 Trade Policy Review Mechanism
TRIMs 	 trade-related investment measures
TRIPS 	 Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights
UNCTAD 	 United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
WIPO 	 World Intellectual Property Organization

0 is zero or became zero due to rounding.
Billion means one thousand million.
Minor discrepancies between constituent figures and totals are due to rounding.
Unless otherwise indicated, (i) all value figures are expressed in US dollars; (ii) trade figures include the intra-trade of free trade areas, customs unions, regional and other
country groupings.
Note This report covers the WTO’s activities in 2018 and early 2019. The word “country” is frequently used to describe WTO members whereas a few members are officially
“customs territories”, and not necessarily countries in the usual sense of the word.

Further information

10 things the WTO can do

Further information about the organization and
its activities can be found on the WTO website:
www.wto.org

This publication highlights some of the benefits of the trading
system, but it does not claim that everything is perfect –
otherwise there would be no need for further negotiations and
for the system to evolve and reform continually.

General information about the WTO is available in the following
publications, which may all be downloaded free of charge from
the website:

Online bookshop

WTO in Brief

Printed publications can be purchased through the WTO’s
online bookshop: https://onlinebookshop.wto.org

WTO in Brief provides a starting point for essential information
about the WTO. Concise and practical, this short brochure is an
ideal introduction to the WTO.

Many publications may be downloaded free of charge
from the WTO website: www.wto.org

9

You can register to receive free alerts when new titles
become available.

World Trade Organization
www.wto.org

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

185

-----------------------Page 187 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

D ow n load t he app
The WTO Annual Report 2019 will be made available as an app.
It can be downloaded from the App Store, Google Play and
Amazon Apps for viewing on your iPad, iPhone, Android tablet
or your Android smartphone.

Annual Report 2019

World Trade Organiza tion

Annual Report 2019

World Trade Organiza tion

Quiz
How well do you know the
World Trade Organization?

Skip the quiz
and go directly to
the Annual Report

Try out our interactive
quiz to find out.

Quiz
How well do you know the
World Trade Organization?

Home

Share

Download Report

Home

186

World Trade Organization  Annual Report 2019

Skip the quiz
and go directly to
the Annual Report

Try out our interactive
quiz to find out.

Share

Download Report

WTO publications
www.wto.org/publications

-----------------------Page 188 End-----------------------

Photo c red it s
Cover: © Hoxton/Ryan Lees/Getty Images.
© Tatiana Chekryzhova/Shutterstock.com.
© aydinmutlu/Getty Images.
Pages 2, 17, 20, 25, 96, 97, 131, 148, 150, 151, 155, 156, 157,
162: © WTO/Jay Louvion.
Pages 4, 14, 15, 18, 19, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29, 35, 37, 52, 54, 57,
59, 60, 113, 115, 122, 123, 127, 138, 143, 146, 147, 149, 154,
163, 165, 171, 172, 174, 175: © WTO.
Page 4: © aydinmutlu/Getty Images.
Page 5: © Westend61/Getty Images.
Page 8: © WTO/Cuika Foto.
Page 11: © Mint Images/Getty Images.
Page 13: © Caiaimage/Paul Bradbury/Getty Images.
Page 14 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO;
Pixabay/Hemmo; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO.
Page 15 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; ©
WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO/ANTARA; © WTO/Cuika
Foto; © Anton Petrus/Getty Images.
Page 18 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; ©
G20; © Government of Canada.
Page 19 (according to date): © WTO; © Marvin del Cid/Getty
Images; © Government of France; © WTO; © Paris Peace
Forum; © G20.
Page 24: © WTO/Paulo González.
Page 31: © China Round Table.
Page 38: © ThitareeSarmkasat/Getty Images.
Page 39: © Alfribeiro/Getty Images.
Page 42: © Alistair Berg/Getty Images.
Pages 43, 45: © hadynyah/Getty Images.
Page 44: © Watchara Kokram/EyeEm/Getty Images.
Page 46: © Arterra Picture Library/Alamy Banque D’Images.

Pages 51, 98: © Hero Images/Getty Images.
Page 53: © jeffbergen/Getty Images.
Pages 63, 83, 84: © Monty Rakusen/Getty Images.
Page 65: © Juice Images/Alamy Banque D’Images.
Page 68: © abadonian/Getty Images.
Page 70: © Jenner Images/Getty Images.
Page 73: © Andrew Errington/Getty Images.
Page 76: © RainStar/Getty Images.
Page 78: © TradeMark East Africa.
Page 79: © 7postman/Getty Images.
Page 81: © primeimages/Getty Images.
Page 89: © Hill Street Studios/Getty Images.
Page 98: © Hero Images/Getty Images.
Page 100: © tuachanwatthana/Getty Images.
Page 102: © The Mašanović winery located in Orahovo polje
in Crmnica, near Lake Skadar, in Montenegro.
Page 109: © International Monetary Fund/World Bank.
Page 110: © AtomicZen/Getty Images.
Page 124: © WTO/Kristian Skeie.
Page 129: © Mikolette/Getty Images.
Page 130: © Bartosz Hadyniak/Getty Images.
Page 133: © Yuri_Arcurs/Getty Images.
Page 134: © pixelfusion3d/Getty Images.
Page 140: © STDF.
Page 145: © SONNY TUMBELAKA/AFP/Getty Images.
Page 153: © G20.
Page 157: © Google.
Page 163: © WTO/Stela Rubinova.

Page 49: © Jake Lyell/Alamy Banque D’Images.

ISBN 978-92-870-4766-3 (Print) / 978-92-870-4769-4 (web)
Printed by the WTO Secretariat.
Report designed by 400 Communications.
© World Trade Organization 2019.
The Annual Report is also available in French and Spanish.

-----------------------Page 189 End-----------------------

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
Tel. switchboard: +41 (0)22 739 51 11
email: enquiries@wto.org
www.wto.org

-----------------------Page 190 End-----------------------

