Annual
Report
2016

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Who we are
The World Trade Organization deals with the global rules of trade
between nations. Its main function is to ensure that trade ﬂows as
smoothly, predictably and freely as possible.

Using this report
The 2016 Annual Report begins with a message from the WTO
Director-General and an overview of the past year. This is followed
by more in-depth accounts of the WTO’s areas of activity over the
past 12 months.

Find out more
Website: www.wto.org
General enquiries: enquiries@wto.org
Tel: +41 (0)22 739 51 11

Also available as an app to
download to your tablet or smartphone.
for iPad and iPhone
for Android
for Kindle

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual
Report
2016

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Major events of 2015
Spotlight:

20th anniversary
of the WTO

See page

8

The WTO celebrated its
20th birthday on 1 January 2015.

Spotlight:

Nairobi
Ministerial
Conference
The Nairobi Ministerial
Conference took place from
15 to 19 December 2015.

See page

20
Spotlight:

Fifth Global
Review
of Aid for Trade
See page

126

The Fifth Global Review of
Aid for Trade took place from
30 June to 2 July 2015.

Spotlight:

Public Forum
2015
The Public Forum took
place from 30 September
to 2 October 2015.

See page

140
Spotlight:

WTO Open Day

See page

156

The WTO’s ﬁfth Open Day
took place on 14 June 2015.

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

1. Introduction

2

Message from Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo

2

Understanding the WTO

4

A brief history

6

Spotlight: 20th anniversary of the WTO

8

2. A year in review

10

2015: a snapshot

12

Our year

14

Spotlight: Nairobi Ministerial Conference 20

3. Membership
Joining the WTO

22
24

A global membership

28

4. Trade negotiations

30

Changes to the rules of trade require the agreement of all WTO members, who must reach
consensus through rounds of negotiations.

5. Implementation and monitoring

48

Various WTO councils and committees seek to ensure that WTO agreements are being
properly implemented. All WTO members undergo periodic scrutiny of their trade policies
and practices.

6. Dispute settlement

100

WTO members bring disputes to the WTO if they think their rights under trade agreements
are being infringed. Settling disputes is the responsibility of the Dispute Settlement Body.

7. Supporting development and building trade capacity

116

The WTO aims to help developing countries build their trade capacity and allows them a
longer time to implement trade agreements. Hundreds of training courses are organized
each year for officials from developing countries.

8. Outreach

136

The WTO maintains regular dialogue with non-governmental organizations, parliamentarians,
other international organizations, the media and the general public to enhance cooperation
and raise awareness of trade issues.

9. Secretariat and budget

166

The WTO Secretariat has over 600 regular staff and coordinates the activities of the WTO.
Most of the WTO’s annual budget consists of contributions by its members.

How the WTO is structured

178

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2015)

179

Membership of the WTO (as of 31 December 2015)

180

Abbreviations and further information

181

Download the app

182
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

1

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Introduction

Message from
Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo
Surely few years in the history of the WTO can have been as memorable as 2015.
Not only did we mark the organization’s 20 year anniversary, we also ended
the year with the successful conclusion of our Tenth Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi, where a number of historic agreements were reached.

T

he “Nairobi Package” consists of six ministerial decisions
covering agriculture, cotton and issues of speciﬁc interest
to least-developed countries (LDCs). It includes a landmark
commitment to abolish subsidies for farm exports, which
is the most important reform of international trade rules
in agriculture since the WTO was founded. Farmers and
exporters in developing countries will beneﬁt in particular from
this decision.
Developing countries will also beneﬁt from the other
decisions taken in Nairobi. These include a commitment by
WTO members to ﬁnd a permanent solution on rules for the
stockpiling of staple food crops for food security purposes,
and a commitment to develop a special safeguard mechanism
for developing countries. For LDCs, ministers agreed steps
to support their integration into the global economy, including
granting preferential treatment to LDC services providers.
In addition, members agreed measures to help low-income
cotton producers access new markets.
The conference also saw the conclusion of a landmark deal
to expand the WTO’s Information Technology Agreement,
eliminating tariffs on 201 additional IT products with annual
trade valued at over US$ 1.3 trillion.
The success of the Nairobi Ministerial Conference comes
hot on the heels of our successful Ministerial Conference
in Bali in December 2013, where ministers approved the
Trade Facilitation Agreement as part of the “Bali Package”
of measures. It has been estimated that, once implemented,
this new agreement could increase global merchandise
exports by up to US$ 1 trillion per annum by reducing transit
times and slashing trade costs by nearly 15% on average.
The Trade Facilitation Agreement will enter into force once
two-thirds of WTO members have ratiﬁed it. We are seeing
signiﬁcant progress in reaching this target. By April 2016,
77 WTO members had ratiﬁed the Agreement and presented
their country’s instrument of acceptance to the WTO.

We are also making good progress on the protocol amending
the WTO’s intellectual property (TRIPS) agreement. In 2015,
ten more WTO members accepted the protocol, which aims
to make it easier for the WTO’s poorest members to access
affordable medicines. Again, the protocol will come into
force once two-thirds of WTO members have ratiﬁed the
amendment. We are now very close to this target.
Another successful outcome of the Nairobi conference was
the approval of the WTO membership packages for Liberia and
Afghanistan. Both countries have experienced troubled times
recently so I am delighted to see them embracing membership
of the WTO as a way of achieving greater stability and
economic growth in the future. It was a pleasure to mark these
momentous occasions by sharing the podium in Nairobi with
Liberia’s President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, and the First Deputy
Chief Executive of Afghanistan, Mohammad Khan Rahmani.
I was also delighted to see the Seychelles and Kazakhstan
ofﬁcially join the WTO last year. Seychelles becomes the latest
small island developing state to join the organisation while the
arrival of Kazakhstan, with its population of 27 million, brings
another major economy into the WTO family.
One of the most memorable features of the Nairobi conference
was the generosity of our Kenyan hosts. I was honoured to
be joined at the opening ceremony by Kenya’s President,
Uhuru Kenyatta, and the Conference itself was ably chaired by
Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for Foreign Affairs and International
Trade, Amina Mohamed. The meeting was an historic occasion
in its own right as it was the ﬁrst WTO ministerial conference
to be held on African soil.
While the Nairobi conference was a success in many ways,
it has also presented the WTO with some challenges.
The Ministerial Declaration issued at the end of the conference
acknowledges that WTO members “have different views” on
the future of the Doha Round negotiations. Although there is
a strong commitment by all members to advance negotiations
on the remaining Doha issues, there was no consensus on

Message from Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg

2

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

how that should be done. Moreover, the declaration notes that
some members may also wish to take up issues outside the
Doha mandate. Members must face up to these fundamental
divisions on our negotiating agenda and decide how to
move forward.
Despite these differences the overriding message of Nairobi,
as our second successful ministerial conference in two
years, is that the WTO can deliver very signiﬁcant negotiated
outcomes – and the clear message I am receiving from our
members is that they want to keep delivering in the years to
come. Indeed, I am now encountering levels of interest in and
optimism about our work which surpass anything that I have
seen for a very long time.
While the negotiating agenda attracts a lot of attention,
we should also maintain a spotlight on what we are achieving
in other areas of our work. In 2015, the WTO reached the
signiﬁcant milestone of our 500th trade dispute, demonstrating
members’ continuing conﬁdence in the dispute settlement
system. In recent years, the breadth and complexity of disputes
brought to the WTO have increased immeasurably, placing a
strain on our existing resources. To ensure the system remains
one of the most efﬁcient in the world, I have made some
internal reforms to ensure that it has the resources needed to
keep delivering to the standard that members expect.
In addition, we continue our work on monitoring countries’
trade policies. By the end of 2015, 151 of the WTO’s
162 members had undergone an in-depth review of their
trade policies and practices. For the membership as a whole,
our latest trade monitoring report has revealed that the
stockpile of trade restrictions introduced by WTO members
since 2008 continues to grow. Only 20 per cent of the
restrictions put in place have been rolled back so the pace of
removal of these measures needs to be accelerated. This is
an area where continued vigilance and action will be required
in 2016.

We also continue to work to build the trading capacity of our
developing country members. In 2015, we undertook over
300 training activities and helped almost 15,000 participants
gain a better understanding of WTO agreements and the
multilateral trading system. We also marked the launch of
phase two of the Enhanced Integrated Framework – ensuring
that it can continue to deliver essential practical support
to LDCs.
The WTO’s Aid for Trade initiative continues to help developing
countries participate more effectively in global trade.
According to the latest available ﬁgures, WTO members’
commitments to this initiative increased by US$ 1.8 billion
compared with the previous year. The Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade, which took place at the WTO in July 2015,
highlighted the important role the initiative can play in
helping the international community attain the Sustainable
Development Goals recently launched by the United
Nations. Through the Nairobi decision to abolish agricultural
export subsidies, we have already delivered on a key target
of the second Sustainable Development Goal, entitled
“Zero Hunger”.
It is ﬁtting that an anniversary year should record some major
achievements and begin to set a path for the future. In this
sense, 2015 delivered. It was an historic year for the WTO
in many ways and it has provided the momentum for us to
deliver many more historic achievements in the years to come
in the service of growth, development and job creation around
the world.

Roberto Azevêdo
Director-General

Message from Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

3

Introduction

“The overriding message of Nairobi, as our
second successful ministerial conference
in two years, is that the WTO can deliver
very significant negotiated outcomes – and
the clear message I am receiving from our
members is that they want to keep delivering
in the years to come.”

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Introduction

Understanding the WTO
There are a number of ways of looking at the World Trade Organization. It is an organization
for trade opening. It is a forum for governments to negotiate trade agreements. It is
a place for them to settle trade disputes. It operates a system of trade rules. It helps
developing countries build their trade capacity. Essentially, the WTO is a place where
member governments try to sort out the trade problems they face with each other.

Who we are

What we stand for

The WTO was born out of negotiations aimed at progressively
reducing obstacles to trade. Where countries have faced
trade barriers and wanted them lowered, the negotiations have
helped to open markets for trade. But the WTO is not just
about opening markets, and in some circumstances its rules
support maintaining trade barriers – for example, to protect
consumers or prevent the spread of disease.

The WTO agreements are lengthy and complex because
they are legal texts covering a wide range of activities. But a
number of simple, fundamental principles run throughout all of
these documents. These principles are the foundation of the
multilateral trading system.

At its heart are the WTO agreements, negotiated and signed
by the bulk of the world’s trading nations. These documents
provide the legal ground rules for international commerce.
They are essentially contracts, binding governments to keep
their trade policies within agreed limits. Although negotiated
and signed by governments, the goal is to help producers of
goods and services, exporters, and importers conduct their
business, while allowing governments to meet social and
environmental objectives.
The system’s overriding purpose is to help trade ﬂow as freely
as possible – so long as there are no undesirable side effects
– because this is important for stimulating economic growth
and employment and supporting the integration of developing
countries into the international trading system. That partly
means removing obstacles. It also means ensuring that
individuals, companies and governments know what the trade
rules are around the world, and giving them the conﬁdence
that there will be no sudden changes of policy. In other words,
the rules have to be “transparent” and predictable.
Trade relations often involve conﬂicting interests. Agreements,
including those painstakingly negotiated in the WTO system,
often need interpreting. The most harmonious way to settle
these differences is through a neutral procedure based on
an agreed legal foundation. That is the purpose behind the
dispute settlement process written into the WTO agreements.

Non-discrimination
A country should not discriminate between its trading partners
and it should not discriminate between its own and foreign
products, services or nationals.
More open
Lowering trade barriers is one of the most obvious ways of
encouraging trade; these barriers include customs duties
(or tariffs) and measures such as import bans or quotas that
restrict quantities selectively.
Predictable and transparent
Foreign companies, investors and governments should be
conﬁdent that trade barriers should not be raised arbitrarily.
With stability and predictability, investment is encouraged,
jobs are created and consumers can fully enjoy the beneﬁts of
competition – choice and lower prices.
More competitive
Discouraging “unfair” practices, such as export subsidies and
dumping products at below normal value to gain market share;
the issues are complex, and the rules try to establish what is
fair or unfair, and how governments can respond, in particular
by charging additional import duties calculated to compensate
for damage caused by unfair trade.
More beneﬁcial for less developed countries
Giving them more time to adjust, greater ﬂexibility and
special privileges; over three-quarters of WTO members are
developing countries and countries in transition to market
economies. The WTO agreements give them transition
periods to adjust to WTO provisions and, in the case of the
Trade Facilitation Agreement, provide for practical support for
implementation of the Agreement.

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto

4

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Introduction

Protect the environment

Implementation and monitoring

The WTO’s agreements permit members to take measures
to protect not only the environment but also public health,
animal health and plant health. However these measures
must be applied in the same way to both national and
foreign businesses. In other words, members must not use
environmental protection measures as a means of disguising
protectionist policies.

WTO agreements require governments to make their trade
policies transparent by notifying the WTO about laws in
force and measures adopted. Various WTO councils and
committees seek to ensure that these requirements are
being followed and that WTO agreements are being properly
implemented. All WTO members must undergo periodic
scrutiny of their trade policies and practices, each review
containing reports by the country concerned and the
WTO Secretariat.

What we do
The WTO is run by its member governments. All major
decisions are made by the membership as a whole, either by
ministers (who usually meet at least once every two years)
or by their ambassadors or delegates (who meet regularly
in Geneva). While the WTO is driven by its member states,
it could not function without its Secretariat to coordinate
the activities. The Secretariat employs over 600 staff,
and its experts – lawyers, economists, statisticians and
communications experts – assist WTO members on a daily
basis to ensure, among other things, that negotiations progress
smoothly, and that the rules of international trade are correctly
applied and enforced.
Trade negotiations
The WTO agreements cover goods, services and intellectual
property. They spell out the principles of liberalization, and the
permitted exceptions. They include individual countries’
commitments to lower customs tariffs and other trade barriers,
and to open services markets. They set procedures for
settling disputes. These agreements are not static; they are
renegotiated from time to time and new agreements can be
added, as was the case at the Bali and Nairobi ministerial
conferences of 2013 and 2015. Negotiations continue on
the issues of the Doha Development Agenda, which was
originally launched by WTO trade ministers in Doha, Qatar,
in November 2001.

Dispute settlement
The WTO’s procedure for resolving trade disputes under
the Dispute Settlement Understanding is vital for enforcing
the rules and therefore for ensuring that trade ﬂows
smoothly. Countries bring disputes to the WTO if they
think their rights under the agreements are being infringed.
Judgements by specially appointed independent experts are
based on interpretations of the agreements and individual
countries’ commitments.
Supporting development and building trade capacity
WTO agreements contain special provision for developing
countries, including longer time periods to implement
agreements and commitments, measures to increase their
trading opportunities, and support to help them build their
trade capacity, to handle disputes and to implement technical
standards. The WTO organizes hundreds of technical
cooperation missions to developing countries annually. It also
holds numerous courses each year in Geneva for government
ofﬁcials. The Aid for Trade initiative aims to help developing
countries develop the skills and infrastructure needed to
expand their trade.
Outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with non-governmental
organizations, parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general public on various
aspects of the WTO and its negotiations, with the aim
of enhancing cooperation and increasing awareness of
WTO activities.

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Introduction

A brief history
The WTO began life on 1 January 1995, succeeding the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade which had regulated world trade since 1948. Over the past
20 years, the WTO has made a major contribution to the strength and stability of the
global economy, helping to boost trade growth, resolve numerous trade disputes
and support the integration of developing countries into the trading system.

• 1994
April
Marrakesh Agreement establishing the
WTO is signed.

• 1995
January
The WTO is born on 1 January.
May
Renato Ruggiero (Italy) takes office as
WTO Director-General.

• 1997
December
Seventy WTO members reach a multilateral
agreement to open their financial
services sector.

• 1998
May
Second Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

• 2000
January
Negotiations begin on services.
March
Negotiations begin on agriculture.

• 2001
November
Fourth Ministerial Conference in Doha,
Qatar. Doha Development Agenda is
launched.China becomes the WTO’s
143rd member.

• 1999
• 1996

September
Mike Moore (New Zealand) becomes
WTO Director-General.

December
First Ministerial Conference takes place
in Singapore. Information Technology
Agreement concluded.

• 2002
September
Supachai Panitchpakdi (Thailand) is
elected WTO Director-General.

November
Third Ministerial Conference takes place
in Seattle, US.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto

6

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

September
Fifth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Cancún, Mexico.

• 2009
April
DG Pascal Lamy reappointed for second
term of four years.

Introduction

• 2003
• 2013
September
Roberto Azevêdo (Brazil) takes office as
WTO Director-General.

September
First WTO Open Day in Geneva.
November
Seventh Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

• 2005
September
Pascal Lamy (France) becomes
WTO Director-General.

December
Ninth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Bali, Indonesia. “Bali Package” adopted.

• 2014
• 2010
January
“Chairs Programme” launched to support
developing country universities.

April
Revised WTO Agreement on Government
Procurement comes into force.
June
Yemen becomes the WTO’s 160 th member.

December
Sixth Ministerial Conference takes place in
Hong Kong, China. Aid for Trade initiative
is launched. Hong Kong Declaration
is approved.

• 2006
September
First WTO Public Forum takes place
in Geneva.

• 2011
December
Eighth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

November
Approval of Trade Facilitation Agreement,
the first multilateral trade agreement to be
concluded since the WTO was established.

• 2015
April
Seychelles becomes the WTO’s
161st member.
November
Kazakhstan becomes the WTO’s
162nd member.

• 2007
January
Viet Nam becomes the WTO’s 150 th member.
November
First Global Review of Aid for Trade takes
place in Geneva.

• 2012
August
Russia becomes the WTO’s 156 th member.

December
Tenth Ministerial Conference takes place in
Nairobi, Kenya. “Nairobi Package” adopted.
Expansion of Information Technology
Agreement concluded.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Spotlight

20th anniversary of the WTO
The WTO marked its 20th birthday in 2015 with a series of events – book launches,
exhibitions and other special activities – designed to remind WTO members and
the general public of what the WTO has achieved over the past two decades.

T

he WTO’s achievements are wide-ranging. Global trade
barriers are historically low, the WTO’s dispute settlement
mechanism ensures international trade rules are respected,
and participation in an open, increasingly integrated and
rules-based world trading system has become all but universal,
with 33 new members, including China and Russia, joining
since 1995.

The overall effect of increasing WTO membership over the
past 20 years has been to boost growth, increase stability
in the global economy and strengthen the organization.
The current 162 WTO members – soon to be 164 with the
incorporation of Afghanistan and Liberia – are home to more
than 7 billion people and account for nearly 96 per cent of the
global economy and 98 per cent of world trade.

WTO members have also made important progress in areas
of trade opening. The “Bali Package” of 2013 resulted in the
landmark Trade Facilitation Agreement, which, in simplifying
and speeding up global customs procedures, could see
average trade costs fall signiﬁcantly. More recently, at the
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, 50-plus WTO members
reached agreement on an expanded Information Technology
Agreement that aims to eliminate tariffs on over 200
technology products, representing trade of US$ 1.3 trillion
per annum.

Trade volumes have increased two-and-a-half times since
1995, with the developing world’s share rising from 27 per
cent to over 43 per cent today. Average applied tariffs have
been cut in half – to less than 8 per cent from 15 per cent.
Today, almost 60 per cent of world trade ﬂows tariff free, while
another ﬁfth is subject to tariffs of under 5 per cent.

Also in Nairobi, trade ministers agreed to abolish export
subsidies for farm exports as part of a “Nairobi Package”.
WTO Director-General Roberto Azevêdo hailed the result
as the “most signiﬁcant outcome on agriculture” in the
organization’s history.

And while industrialized countries dominated the WTO’s
predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT), developing countries play a key role in managing the
WTO, shaping its agenda and negotiating its agreements.

20 th anniversary highlights
To mark the 20th anniversary, the WTO organized a
number of events highlighting the achievements of the past
two decades. Many of these were organized with other
intergovernmental organizations.

Spotlight: 20th anniversary of the WTO
www.wto.org/20years

8

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Introduction

Together with the World Health Organization and the
World Intellectual Property Organization, the WTO hosted
a symposium on “Public Health, Intellectual Property and
TRIPS at 20”. The symposium illustrated the importance of
international cooperation for improving global governance in
the area of trade-related intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
and what can be achieved by organizations working in unison.

The WTO also hosted a series of high-proﬁle events, such as
the Public Forum, the Open Day and the Global Review of Aid
for Trade.

Together with the World Bank, the WTO launched the
co-publication The Role of Trade in Ending Poverty, which
highlights trade as a key factor for growth in developing
countries. “Trade plays an essential role in driving … job
creation and can be a powerful force in reducing poverty,”
World Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim said at the launch
of the publication.
Other books published during the year included The WTO at
Twenty, bringing together contributions from across the WTO
to assess the challenges and achievements of the organization.
A History of Law and Lawyers in the GATT/WTO and The
Making of the TRIPS Agreement, meanwhile, offer unique
ﬁrst-hand accounts of how the WTO’s rulebook has evolved.
And WTO Accessions and Trade Multilateralism looks at how
the organization’s growing membership has expanded the
reach of the multilateral trading system.
In addition, the WTO published a series of anniversary
brochures, covering various aspects of the WTO’s work,
to allow policy-makers and the wider public to gain a better
understanding of the organization’s activities. Also to mark the
anniversary, the WTO launched a video series, “Trade Starts
Here”, showcasing people from different parts of the world and
different backgrounds who have beneﬁted from trade.

“The most important takeaway from the past
two decades is the spirit of cooperation. Without
multilateral cooperation, members cannot
conclude new agreements. And when members
are willing to work together, agreement can be
reached, as history has shown us”

Deputy Director-General Xiaozhun Yi,
who oversaw the 20 th anniversary activities.

Spotlight: 20th anniversary of the WTO
www.wto.org/20years
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

A year in review

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

A year in
review

2015: a snapshot

12

Our year

14

Trade negotiations

15

Implementation and monitoring

16

Dispute settlement

17

Supporting development and building trade capacity

18

Outreach

19

Spotlight: Nairobi Ministerial Conference

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non-governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

20

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

A year in review

2015: a snapshot
• WTO marks its 20 th anniversary.

• WTO welcomes Seychelles as
161st member.

• WTO holds joint event with
UNEP on building pathways to
sustainable development.

• DG Azevêdo attends
World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland.

February
January
• Istanbul Bilgi University joins WTO
Chairs Programme.

May

June

April
• WTO launches website for Trade
Facilitation Agreement Facility.

• WTO welcomes over 3,000 visitors
to its “Merci Genève” Open Day.

•

• Fernando de Mateo, of Mexico,
is appointed as Chair of
General Council.
• WTO and World Bank launch new
publication on role of trade in
ending poverty.

• Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade
takes place at WTO.

•
•

2015: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2015

12

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

• Public Forum on “Trade Works”
takes place at WTO.

• DG Azevêdo attends UN General
Assembly that adopts Sustainable
Development Goals.

A year in
review

• WTO receives 500 th trade dispute
for settlement.

• Niger becomes first leastdeveloped country to ratify Trade
Facilitation Agreement.
• Kazakhstan joins WTO as
162nd member.

• DG Azevêdo attends G20 leaders
summit in Antalya, Turkey.

October
August

September

• WTO and UNCTAD sign declaration
on increased cooperation.

December
November

• WTO holds joint symposium with
WHO and WIPO on public health,
trade and intellectual property.

• Tenth Ministerial Conference
adopts “Nairobi Package”, including
decision to abolish agricultural
export subsidies.

• WTO members approve
membership packages for Liberia
and Afghanistan.

• WTO members conclude landmark
US$ 1.3 trillion IT trade deal.

2015: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2015
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Our year
The WTO held its Tenth Ministerial Conference in
Nairobi in 2015, the first time such a meeting has
been held in Africa. Ministers took a number of
decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related to
least-developed countries. These included a historic
decision to abolish export subsidies for farm exports.
The Ministerial Declaration issued at the end
of the conference acknowledged that WTO
members “have different views” on how to address
the Doha Round negotiations but noted the
“strong commitment of all members to advance
negotiations on the remaining Doha issues”.
The conference saw the approval of the
WTO membership packages for Liberia and
Afghanistan, paving the way for them to become
WTO members in 2016. Earlier in the year,
Seychelles and Kazakhstan joined the WTO,
bringing the total number of members to 162.

14

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

A year in
review

6
The “Nairobi
Package” includes
six ministerial
decisions on
agriculture, cotton
and LDC issues.

Trade negotiations
Trade negotiations in 2015 culminated at the Nairobi Ministerial
Conference in December with the adoption of six ministerial
decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related to leastdeveloped countries, known collectively as the “Nairobi
Package”. Ministers also issued a declaration on the future of
the WTO and members’ divergent views on the Doha Round.
The Nairobi Package included a historic decision to abolish
export subsidies for farm exports, hailed by DirectorGeneral Roberto Azevêdo as the “most signiﬁcant outcome
on agriculture” in the organization’s 20-year history. Other
decisions on agriculture covered public stockholding for
food security and a special safeguard mechanism, which,
once agreed to by WTO members, would allow developing
countries to raise tariffs temporarily to deal with import surges
or price falls.
On cotton, ministers decided to prohibit cotton export
subsidies by developed countries immediately while developing
countries are required to do so no later than 1 January 2017.
For least-developed countries, ministers took two decisions
aimed at making it easier for these countries to qualify for
preferential market access and to play a bigger role in global
trade in services. The conference also saw the conclusion of
negotiations to expand the Information Technology Agreement,
eliminating tariffs on 201 additional IT products valued at over
US$ 1.3 trillion per year.

In the Ministerial Declaration issued at the end of the
conference, ministers acknowledged that WTO members
“have different views” on how to address the Doha Round
negotiations but noted the “strong commitment of all members
to advance negotiations on the remaining Doha issues”.
Earlier in the year, the Trade Negotiations Committee and its
subsidiary bodies had focused on preparing a clearly deﬁned
work programme on the remaining Doha Development Agenda
issues by the end of July. Despite much effort, no substantive
progress was made and signiﬁcant differences remained
across many key areas. From September, work switched
to focusing on potential outcomes for the Tenth Ministerial
Conference (MC10). Work continued up to and during
the conference.
The chair of MC10, Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for Foreign
Affairs Amina Mohamed, and DG Azevêdo chaired meetings in
Nairobi to facilitate discussion and consensus-building on the
various texts that would be put forward for formal consideration
by ministers, including the text of a draft Ministerial Declaration.
Some ministers were asked to act as facilitators to assist in
and help speed up the negotiations that led ultimately to the
successful conclusion of the conference with the adoption of
the Nairobi Package.
See pages 30-47.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

A year in review

Implementation and monitoring
members to access affordable medicines and will come into
force once it is approved by two-thirds of the membership.

Various WTO councils and committees seek to ensure that
WTO agreements and rules are being properly implemented.
The General Council is the WTO’s highest-level decisionmaking body in Geneva.

The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures
continued its review of the SPS Agreement. It received a
record 1,681 notiﬁcations from WTO members regarding new
or changed food safety, animal or plant health regulations.
Seven developing countries submitted notiﬁcations for the ﬁrst
time, improving the transparency of their trade measures.

In 2015, the Council oversaw preparations for the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi. In July, it approved the
membership terms for Kazakhstan, which became the
162nd member of the WTO. Earlier in the year, Seychelles
joined the WTO following the approval of its accession
package in December 2014. The Tenth Ministerial Council
approved the WTO membership packages of Liberia
and Afghanistan.
By late January 2016, 68 WTO members had ratiﬁed the Trade
Facilitation Agreement, which will come into effect once twothirds of the WTO membership have ratiﬁed it. The Agreement
will simplify and speed up global procedures for the movement
of goods across borders and could see average trade costs
fall by over 14 per cent. The Preparatory Committee on Trade
Facilitation has received over 70 notiﬁcations from WTO
members indicating how they will implement the Agreement
once it enters into force. The Tenth Ministerial Conference
saw the launch of the Global Alliance for Trade Facilitation,
a new public-private platform that seeks to use private sector
expertise and resources to support trade facilitation reforms.
In 2015, ten more WTO members accepted the protocol
amending the WTO’s intellectual property (TRIPS) agreement.
The amendment aims to make it easier for the poorest

The Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) Committee agreed on
a three-year work plan, including work on good regulatory
practice, regulatory cooperation between members and
transparency on issues such as labelling requirements. As part
of the WTO’s 20th anniversary activities, an event was held
in November to look back at the Committee’s work in dealing
with concerns arising from standards and regulations and in
resolving frictions between WTO members.
The WTO’s trade monitoring reports showed that WTO
members continued to introduce trade-restrictive measures
in 2015. Given the continuing uncertainties in the global
economy, the reports stressed the need for members to show
restraint in imposing new trade restrictions and to eliminate
more of the existing measures. The WTO conducted 20 Trade
Policy Reviews in 2015, bringing the total number of members
covered by these reviews to 151.
See pages 48-99.

Trade Policy Reviews in 2015
Republic of Moldova

Canada

European
Union
Japan

Cabo Verde

Pakistan
Haiti
Barbados

Dominican
Republic

India
Thailand
Brunei
Darussalam

Guyana
Jordan
Madagascar
Chile

Australia

Angola

Southern African Customs Union:
Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland,
South Africa and Lesotho

New Zealand

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

16

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

WTO members most involved in disputes, 1995 to 2015

109 124

United States

96 82
European
Union

13 34
China

Japan

A year in
review

Canada 34 18

21 15
17 15 Republic
of Korea

Mexico 23 14

India 21 23
27 16
Brazil
Argentina 20 22

Complainant

Respondent

Dispute settlement
WTO members bring disputes to the WTO if they think their
rights under trade agreements are being infringed. Settling
disputes is the responsibility of the Dispute Settlement
Body (DSB).
The WTO’s dispute settlement system experienced its busiest
year so far, with an average of 30 active panels per month.
During 2015, the 500th dispute was submitted to the WTO,
demonstrating WTO members’ continuing conﬁdence in the
dispute settlement process.
Over the year, the DSB received 13 requests for consultations,
the ﬁrst step in the dispute settlement process, more than half
of them from developing countries. It adopted 11 panel reports,
compared with nine in 2014. The DSB also adopted eight
Appellate Body reports against seven the year before. There
has been a recent increase in WTO members requesting that
an arbitrator determine how long a “losing” member can have
to implement the panel and Appellate Body recommendations
as adopted by the DSB. During 2015, WTO members made
three such requests.
There has also been an increase in compliance panel
proceedings. A compliance panel is established when there
is disagreement between the parties as to whether the losing
party has brought its measure into line with WTO rules

500
Over 500 trade disputes have
been submitted to the WTO
for settlement since 1995.

following an adjudication process. Four compliance panel
reports were adopted in 2015. Compliance panel proceedings
in the disputes concerning Boeing and Airbus are still ongoing.
WTO members continue to litigate in many different trade
areas. Current disputes include Australia’s plain packaging
requirements for tobacco products, certain measures imposed
by Argentina that affect trade in goods and services, a ban
imposed by Russia on the importing of European pork
products because of concerns related to African swine fever,
and EU modiﬁcations to its tariff concessions on poultry meat.
In October 2015, DG Azevêdo addressed the DSB on the
challenges faced by the dispute settlement system. He said
the increased breadth and complexity of disputes have
changed the face of WTO dispute settlement completely.
He acknowledged that the dispute settlement system is
highly efﬁcient and faster than other international adjudicatory
systems but WTO members face some delays as their disputes
progress through the system. To deal with the increasing
workload, he has nearly doubled the number of lawyer posts
in the three legal divisions since he has taken ofﬁce, from 30
to 57. He said that the Secretariat is focused on recruiting and
developing expertise in key areas, and is looking into other
ways of reducing the waiting time for dispute settlement.
The DSB reappointed two Appellate Body members,
Ujal Singh Bhatia of India and Thomas Graham of the United
States, for second four-year terms.
See pages 100-115.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

A year in review

321
The WTO undertook
321 technical
assistance activities
for government
ofﬁcials in 2015.

Supporting development and building trade capacity
The WTO aims to help developing countries improve their
trade capacity so that they can participate more effectively
in the multilateral trading system.
At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in December 2015,
ministers took decisions of speciﬁc beneﬁt to least-developed
countries (LDCs). These include a decision on “rules of origin”
to help make it easier for LDC exports to qualify for preferential
market access. Ministers also decided to extend the waiver
allowing WTO members to grant preferential treatment to LDC
suppliers of services.
On cotton, ministers adopted a decision prohibiting export
subsidies and calling for a further reduction in domestic
support. They also called for improvements to market access
for LDCs. The decision aims to level the playing ﬁeld for cotton
exporters in the poorest countries, where the cotton sector is
of vital importance.
As part of the WTO’s 20th anniversary activities in 2015,
the WTO organized an event to review the progress made
in integrating LDCs into the multilateral trading system and
discussed how the WTO could help LDCs overcome the
remaining challenges.
The WTO’s Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade, held in July,
examined how high trade costs impede LDC efforts to fully
beneﬁt from the multilateral trading system. The three-day
meeting, which attracted over 1,500 delegates, highlighted
the importance of implementing the WTO’s Trade Facilitation
Agreement as one means of reducing trade costs.

The Aid for Trade initiative aims to enhance growth and
reduce poverty in developing countries, particularly LDCs,
so that they can better integrate into the multilateral trading
system. Financing for the initiative has continued to grow,
despite the ﬁscal challenges faced by many donor countries.
The latest available ﬁgures – for 2013 – show an increase
in commitments of US$ 1.8 billion compared with the
previous year.
Phase Two of the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF),
a multi-donor programme that aims to help LDCs use trade
as a tool for growth, was launched at the Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade. At an EIF pledging conference in December,
approximately US$ 90 million was promised to support the
new phase, which runs from 2016 to 2022.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), launched by the
United Nations in September 2015, put signiﬁcant emphasis
on the role that trade can play in boosting growth, tackling
poverty and promoting sustainable development. The WTO
is already fulﬁlling a key target of the second SDG, entitled
“Zero Hunger”, by its decision to abolish agricultural export
subsidies, as agreed at the Tenth Ministerial Conference.
In 2015, the WTO organized 321 training activities to help
government ofﬁcials improve their understanding of the
multilateral trading system. The number of participants
beneﬁting from training reached 14,900 in 2015, with nearly
half of these accessing training resources through the WTO’s
e-learning platform.
See pages 116-135.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

18

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

A year in
review

85
The Public Forum attracted
participants from 85 countries.

Outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media, businesses and the general public
to enhance openness and transparency.
The WTO’s major outreach event – the Public Forum –
attracted 1,300 participants from 85 countries. Its 90 sessions
were organized by a wide range of participants, including
business representatives, NGOs, academia, law ﬁrms,
international organizations and WTO members.
On 14 June 2015, the WTO held its ﬁfth Open Day, entitled
“Merci Genève”. The event brought over 3,000 people to the
WTO’s headquarters in Geneva, and provided the opportunity
to thank the people of Geneva for hosting the organization over
the past 20 years.
In the run-up to the Tenth Ministerial Conference, the WTO
organized workshops for NGOs in Kenya, South Africa and
Senegal. About 30 side events were organized by NGOs
during the conference, which was attended by over 300 NGO
representatives. The WTO organized two regional workshops
for members of parliament from Asia and from the Indian
Ocean Commission.
During the year, the WTO increased its cooperation with other
intergovernmental organizations. In June, the World Bank
and the WTO jointly launched a new co-publication, “The
Role of Trade in Ending Poverty”, which looks at the complex
relationships between economic growth, poverty reduction and

trade. In September, DG Azevêdo attended the UN General
Assembly which adopted the Sustainable Development Goals.
In October, the WTO and the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development signed a declaration to strengthen
their collaboration, committing them to work together to
harness trade as a tool for development and poverty alleviation.
Also in October, the WTO held a joint symposium with the
World Health Organization and the World Intellectual Property
Organization, which looked at access to medical innovation
and technologies.
Some 350 journalists attended the Tenth Ministerial
Conference, including 12 from least-developed countries
(LDCs) invited by the WTO. During the year, the WTO held
seminars in Geneva for journalists from Russia and from
francophone African countries.
The WTO continued to build its relations with business.
Over 170 business representatives attended the Public Forum,
up from the previous year’s total of 150, and 23 business
organizations attended the Ministerial Conference.
In 2015, the WTO website received just over 20 million visits.
The site was merged with the WTO members’ website to
bring all WTO material into one self-contained area. The WTO
expanded its use of social media, almost doubling its number
of Twitter followers.
See pages 136-165.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Spotlight

Nairobi Ministerial
Conference
The WTO’s Tenth Ministerial Conference, held in Nairobi from 15 to 19 December 2015, adopted
a range of decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related to least-developed countries.
The decisions include a commitment to abolish export subsidies for farm exports, which
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo hailed as the “most significant outcome on agriculture”
in the organization’s 20-year history. In their Nairobi Declaration, ministers acknowledged
that WTO members “have different views” on how to address the future of the Doha Round
negotiations. The Conference also approved the accessions of Liberia and Afghanistan.
A landmark information technology deal was concluded.

Nairobi Package
The Tenth Ministerial Conference, the ﬁrst to be held in
Africa, was attended by over 3,000 participants. At the
end of the ﬁve-day meeting, ministers adopted the “Nairobi
Package”, including six ministerial decisions on agriculture,
cotton and issues of particular interest to least-developed
countries (LDCs).
Agriculture
On export competition, developed countries committed
to remove export subsidies immediately, except for a
handful of agriculture products, which were given extra
but limited time. Developing countries will do so by 2018,
although net food-importing developing countries will have
more time. The decision also contains new rules on export
ﬁnancing support, international food aid and exporting
state-trading enterprises.
A ministerial decision on public stockholding for food security
commits WTO members to engage constructively in ﬁnding a
permanent solution to the issue of countries stockpiling staple
food crops for food security purposes. The Bali ministerial decision
of 2013 set a deadline of the 11th Ministerial Conference in 2017
for resolving this matter. Until a permanent solution is approved,

Background on the Ministerial Conference
The Ministerial Conference of the WTO consists of
representatives of all WTO members. It is the highest
decision-making body of the organization and usually
meets every two years. Ministerial conferences review
ongoing work, give political guidance and direction
to that work, and set the agenda for further work.

food stockpiling at administered prices will continue to be
protected from legal action by WTO members as long as certain
conditions are met (see page 35).
Ministers decided that negotiations to establish a special
safeguard mechanism – which would allow developing
countries to raise tariffs temporarily to deal with import surges
or price falls – will take place in dedicated sessions of the
Committee on Agriculture and progress in these negotiations
will be regularly reviewed by the General Council.
Cotton
Ministers stressed the vital importance of cotton to LDCs.
Their decision mandates developed countries to prohibit
cotton export subsidies immediately while developing countries
are required to do so no later than 1 January 2017. It also
includes a commitment by developed countries – and those
developing countries declaring they are able to do so – to
grant duty-free and quota-free market access to cotton exports
from LDCs from 1 January 2016, to the extent provided for in
their respective preferential trade arrangements.
LDC issues
Ministers built on the 2013 Bali Ministerial Decision on
preferential rules of origin for LDCs, which set out, for the
ﬁrst time, guidelines to help make it easier for LDC exports
to qualify for preferential market access. The latest decision
(see page 39) provides more detailed directions on issues
such as methods for determining when a product qualiﬁes as
“made in an LDC”.
Ministers also extended a current waiver under which WTO
members may grant preferential treatment to LDC services.
The waiver, adopted in December 2011, runs 15 years.
Ministers extended it an additional four years until
31 December 2030 (see page 74).

Spotlight: Nairobi Ministerial Conference
www.wto.org/mc10

20

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

A year in
review

(Left) President Uhuru
Kenyatta at the Opening
Session of the Tenth
Ministerial Conference.

(Right) DG Azevêdo
greets Kenya’s
President,
Uhuru Kenyatta.

Other decisions

Accessions

Ministers took three decisions regarding the regular work of
WTO committees. On small economies, they reafﬁrmed
their commitment to the work programme (see page 122).
They extended a current moratorium on so-called
non-violation and situation complaints in intellectual
property (see page 41). On e-commerce, ministers extended
a moratorium on imposing customs duties on electronic
transmission (see page 50).

WTO members adopted the accession packages of
Liberia and Afghanistan. The two countries will become
WTO members 30 days after they notify the WTO of their
acceptance of their accession terms and conditions.

Landmark information technology deal
WTO members representing major exporters of IT products
concluded a landmark deal to eliminate tariffs on 201
information technology products valued at over U$ 1.3 trillion
per year. DG Azevêdo called it the “ﬁrst major tariff-cutting
deal at the WTO since 1996”.
Negotiations on the expanded Information Technology
Agreement (see page 47) were conducted by 53 WTO
members but all members will beneﬁt from duty-free market
access to the markets of members eliminating tariffs on these
products. Under the agreement, approximately 65 per cent of
tariff lines will be fully eliminated by 1 July 2016 and by 2019
almost all of the relevant products will be duty free.

Future work of the WTO
In the Ministerial Declaration issued at the end of the conference,
ministers acknowledged that, while many WTO members
reafﬁrmed their full commitment to conclude the Doha
Development Agenda on the basis of the existing mandate,
others “do not reafﬁrm the Doha mandates, as they believe new
approaches are necessary to achieve meaningful outcomes in
multilateral negotiations. Nevertheless, there remains a strong
commitment of all members to advance negotiations on the
remaining Doha issues.” Ministers agreed that ofﬁcials should
work to ﬁnd ways to advance negotiations and they requested
the Director-General to report regularly to the General Council
on these efforts.

3,000
Over 3,000 participants
attended the WTO’s Tenth
Ministerial Conference.

DG Azevêdo welcomes Liberia’s
President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf.

Spotlight: Nairobi Ministerial Conference
www.wto.org/mc10
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Membership
>

Seychelles and Kazakhstan became the newest members of the
WTO in 2015, bringing the WTO’s total membership to 162.

>

The WTO membership packages of Liberia and Afghanistan were
approved at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi.

>

Least-developed countries now represent more than one-fifth of
the WTO membership.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

24

A global membership

28

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non-governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Membership

Joining the WTO

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Membership

Joining the WTO
Seychelles and Kazakhstan became the 161st and 162nd members of the WTO in 2015.
In December, the Tenth Ministerial Conference approved the WTO membership packages of
Liberia and Afghanistan, which will become members once they have ratified their entry
accords. These new accessions bring the WTO closer to its target of achieving universality,
with the current membership representing 98 per cent of world trade.

S

eychelles became a WTO member on 26 April 2015,
followed by Kazakhstan on 30 November. Liberia and
Afghanistan have until June 2016 to ratify their respective
accession packages. They will become WTO members 30
days after notifying the acceptance of these packages to the
WTO Director-General. Least-developed countries (LDCs)
now represent more than a ﬁfth of the WTO membership.
A number of other aspiring members (see list on page 180)
made progress with their accession negotiations.

Seychelles
Seychelles became the 161st WTO member, ending 20 years
of negotiating its accession terms with WTO members.
“I am delighted to welcome the Republic of Seychelles
as the 161st member of the WTO,” said Director-General

The accession packages, or entry terms, contain speciﬁc
commitments binding the countries to WTO rules, including
negotiated concessions and commitments on market access
for goods and services. The WTO accession process
promotes the integration of new members into the global
economy and in return acceding economies undertake to
liberalize their trade regimes.
The length of accession processes varies depending on the
negotiating commitment of the acceding economy, the degree
to which its trade rules are already WTO-consistent and the
mix and complexity of the subject matter of the negotiation,
which differs from one accession to another.
Seychelles President James Michel signs
the Instrument of Acceptance of the WTO
Accession Protocol on 25 March 2015.

Background on joining the WTO

162
The WTO has 162 members following
the accession of Seychelles in April 2015
and of Kazakhstan in November 2015.

An important goal of the newly created WTO in
1995 was to make the organization universal in
coverage. In the past two decades, 34 members have
joined, including China, Russia and Saudi Arabia,
vastly expanding the global coverage of WTO rules.
The WTO is open to states or customs territories
with full autonomy over their external commercial
relations. To join the WTO, a government has to
bring its economic and trade policies in line with
WTO rules and principles, and negotiate with trading
partners on guaranteed minimum levels of access
to their domestic markets for goods and services.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

24

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Following signature of the ratiﬁcation of the WTO Accession
Protocol, Seychelles President James Michel said: “It is a
proud moment for Seychelles to have taken this ﬁnal step
towards WTO accession. As a Small Island Developing State,
we are reliant on open access to trade in goods and services
both to ensure that the basic needs of our people are met,
and to ensure that we continue to create opportunities for
wealth creation and prosperity. As we join this world trading
body, we look forward to working with the WTO Secretariat
to further help us in building our capacity.”

tough negotiation process. For a long time now, we have
been shaping our economic policies in the spirit of the
WTO, by removing barriers, acting as an engine of regional
integration and promoting the principles of open collaboration.
Effective implementation of the reforms will help to shape a
brand new institutional environment”.

Membership

Roberto Azevêdo. “This is great news for Seychelles’ economy
and, therefore, for the people of Seychelles. It is also a boost
for the WTO and a vote of conﬁdence in the Organization.”

Kazakhstan
Kazakhstan became the 162nd WTO member, closing a
20-year long chapter of negotiating its accession terms with
WTO members. DG Azevêdo said: “I think this is a truly
historic occasion for Kazakhstan, and for the WTO. We are
delivering a result which will have a major economic impact,
a major systemic impact, and a major human impact. Because,
crucially, the beneﬁts of accession can help to create jobs,
raise incomes, and improve people’s lives. For Kazakhstan,
this is an endorsement of the extensive programme of reforms
which you have undertaken. And it is a message to the world
that Kazakhstan is open for business.”
Speaking at the General Council meeting of 27 July 2015,
where WTO members formally adopted Kazakhstan’s terms
of entry, Kazakhstan’s President Nazarbayev said: “We are
sincerely grateful to each of the WTO member states for
their constructive approach and support throughout a very

Liberia’s President, Ellen Johnson
Sirleaf, at the ceremony marking the
approval of Liberia’s accession during
the Tenth Ministerial Conference.

Liberia
The accession negotiations of Liberia took eight years.
Congratulating Liberia on its achievement, Kenya’s President
Uhuru Kenyatta said: “I am pleased that this decision was
taken here in Nairobi, on African soil, at the WTO’s Tenth
Ministerial Conference. Without a doubt, WTO membership
carries considerable gains and beneﬁts. Liberia’s accession
package provides a platform for continuing domestic
reforms and should inspire other African countries in their
domestic measures.”
Liberia’s President, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, said that Liberia’s
accession to the WTO “marks another turning point in our
history, particularly in our journey of economic transformation
for inclusive growth. Our transformation can neither be
done alone, nor in isolation, but by forging partnerships.
We appreciate the collective efforts of our partners who
have made this accession a resounding success. We fully
subscribe to the African common position on strengthening the
rules-based multilateral trading system to create the Africa that
we want”.
DG Azevêdo and President Nazarbayev
signed the Protocol on the Accession
of Kazakhstan on 27 July 2015.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Membership

Liberia
Accession Working Party report
Paragraphs with commitment language

31

Market access for goods
Average ﬁnal bound tariff rates:
All goods

26.7%

Agricultural goods

23.8%

Non-agricultural goods

27.2%

Market access for services
Sectors
Sub-sectors

11
102

In welcoming the approval of Liberia’s terms of entry,
DG Azevêdo paid tribute to the “engagement and leadership”
of the President of Liberia. “It is particularly appropriate that,
at this ﬁrst ministerial conference in Africa, we are welcoming
a new African member,” he said. “I hope that this achievement
here today will help Liberia to continue on the path of hope,
progress and development.”

Afghanistan
The accession negotiations of Afghanistan took 11 years.
On 17 December, at the Nairobi Ministerial Conference,
Mohammad Khan Rahmani, First Deputy Chief Executive of
Afghanistan, declared: “Today is a historic day for the people
of Afghanistan who have embraced democratic values and
market economy principles. Our WTO membership will
cement our long-standing commitment to an open economy,
transparency, rule of law, good governance, non-discrimination,
and market instruments for the development of our economy
and the private sector, and for the alleviation of poverty.
Trade-led growth will create new economic opportunities
and jobs, especially for women; it will reduce poverty and
increase prosperity. It will certainly contribute in a major way
to dramatically reducing extremism and achieve regional
peace and security.”

Afghanistan’s WTO membership terms were
formally approved at a special ceremony
attended by Afghanistan’s First Deputy
Chief Executive Mohammad Khan Rahmani
during the Tenth Ministerial Conference.

Afghanistan
Accession Working Party report
Paragraphs with commitment language

37

Market access for goods
Average ﬁnal bound tariff rates:
All goods

13.5%

Agricultural goods

33.6%

Non-agricultural goods

10.3%

Market access for services
Sectors

DG Azevêdo paid special tribute to the government of
Afghanistan for “this historic achievement” and for having
undertaken an “extensive programme of domestic reforms to
accelerate economic growth despite very challenging
circumstances”. He said: “Afghanistan’s WTO accession is a
clear sign for all the world to see that the country is building a
business-friendly environment. I am conﬁdent that WTO
membership will contribute to establishing a ﬁrm foundation
for Afghanistan’s future development and prosperity.”

11

Sub-sectors

104

20 years
1995

2015

Seychelles and Kazakhstan both
concluded 20 years of negotiations
when they became WTO members.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

26

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

The WTO launched a new publication in October entitled
WTO Accessions and Trade Multilateralism: Case Studies
and Lessons from the WTO at Twenty, which looks at how
the organization’s ever-expanding membership has increased
the scope of the multilateral trading system. Speaking at the
launch, DG Azevêdo said: “By bringing an increasing number
of countries together in an atmosphere of cooperation and
shared rules, the multilateral trading system is a means not
just to achieve growth and development, but also to support
peaceful relations.”

19
19 countries are
currently negotiating
WTO membership.

The Director-General issued the Seventh Annual Report on
WTO Accessions in November 2015. The report provides
detailed information on work on WTO accessions, accession
events and initiatives during the 20th anniversary year of the
WTO, including post-accession support and the trade and
economic performance of economies that have joined the
WTO since 1995.

Technical assistance
Acceding economies participated in over 40 WTO technical
assistance activities in 2015, with six acceding economies
acting as hosts for some of these events. Beneﬁciaries
included Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran, Liberia and Seychelles.

Programme (known as the China Programme). This initiative
aims to assist acceding LDCs and to strengthen LDC
members’ participation in the WTO. Two round tables
were held in 2015, the ﬁrst in Dushanbe, Tajikistan,
on 2-4 June, and the second in Nairobi, Kenya,
on 13-14 December, just before the Ministerial Conference.
The beneﬁciary economies included all acceding economies
and several WTO members. As part of the programme,
four interns (from Afghanistan, Brazil/Colombia, Montenegro
and Uganda) were selected in 2015 to participate in the
internship scheme at the WTO Secretariat.
The Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF) (see page 128)
continued to provide technical assistance and capacitybuilding support in selected acceding economies. For Liberia,
the EIF-funded project was coordinated with the Swedish
National Board of Trade. The International Trade Centre (ITC)
and the WTO Secretariat continued their work under the joint
ITC-WTO programme, launched in 2009, in support of the
private sector in acceding developing economies and LDCs.
Working party chairs visited several acceding economies to
meet key domestic stakeholders to promote outreach, answer
questions and improve understanding of WTO membership.
The Accessions Division also undertook brieﬁngs for newly
designated working party chairs and new delegates as well as
workshops for parliamentarians and civil society.
Awareness of accession activities was further enhanced
by regular meetings of the Informal Group on Accessions,
the WTO accessions newsletter, the Director-General’s
Annual Report on WTO Accessions and the annual
accessions outreach dialogue with WTO groupings.
In 2015, this dialogue included the Group of Latin American
and Caribbean Countries, the Asian Group of Developing
Members, the Arab Group, the African Group and the LDC
Consultative Group. A follow-up brieﬁng for LDCs was
provided at the 75th session of the Sub-Committee on LDCs.

The WTO Secretariat continued with the implementation
of China’s Least-Developed Countries and Accessions

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

27

Membership

New publications

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Membership

A global membership

Seychelles joined the WTO in April 2015,
followed by Kazakhstan in November 2015.
The accession packages of Afghanistan and
Liberia were approved in December 2015 at
the WTO’s Tenth Ministerial Conference.

WTO members
New members in 2015
WTO membership package approved in 2015
Observers
Non-members
Source: WTO.

For a full list of WTO members and observers, see page 180.

Liberia
WTO membership package approved
in 2015
111,369 km2

Geographical area
Population (thousands, 2014)

4,397

GDP (million current US$, 2014)

2,027

GDP real growth rate (2014)

9%

Rank in world trade (2014) –
goods

imports: 170

Rank in world trade (2014) –
services

imports: 162

exports: 162
exports: 157

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions

28

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Membership
Kazakhstan
New member in 2015
Geographical area

2,724,900 km²

Population (thousands, 2014)
GDP (million current US$, 2014)

Population (thousands, 2014)
GDP (million current US$, 2014)
GDP real growth rate (2014)
Rank in world trade (2014) – goods
Rank in world trade (2014) –
services

GDP real growth rate (2014)

4%

Rank in world trade (2014) –
goods

imports: 60

Rank in world trade (2014) –
services

imports: 57

exports: 45
exports: 70

Afghanistan
WTO membership package approved
in 2015

Seychelles
New member in 2015
Geographical area

27,289
212,248

455 km²
92
1,406

Geographical area

652,230 km2

Population (thousands, 2014)

31,281

GDP (million current US$, 2014)

20,842

3%

GDP real growth rate (2014)

2%

imports: 167

Rank in world trade (2014) –
goods

imports: 109

Rank in world trade (2014) –
services

imports: 110

exports: 165
imports: 170
exports: 148

exports: 163
exports: 87

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
>

The WTO’s Tenth Ministerial Conference, held in Nairobi from 15 to 19 December,
concluded with the adoption of the “Nairobi Package”, a series of six ministerial
decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related to least-developed countries.

>

The Nairobi Package includes a historic decision to eliminate
agricultural export subsidies, the most important reform of international
trade rules in agriculture since the WTO was founded.

>

The Nairobi Ministerial Declaration acknowledges that WTO members “have
different views” on the future of the Doha Round negotiations but notes the “strong
commitment of all members to advance negotiations on the remaining Doha issues”.

>

Over 50 WTO members concluded a landmark deal to expand the
WTO’s Information Technology Agreement, eliminating tariffs on
201 additional IT products valued at over US$ 1.3 trillion per year.

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

32

Agriculture

34

Market access for non-agricultural products

36

Services

37

Rules of origin

39

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)

40

Trade and development

42

Trade and environment

43

Trade and transfer of technology

44

WTO rules

45

Dispute Settlement Understanding

46

Information Technology Agreement

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
Background
on trade
negotiations
with non-governmental
organizations,
parliamentarians,
other
Changes
to the rules
ofinternational
trade
organizations,
the media
the general
require
the agreement
of and
all WTO
public to enhance
cooperation
and
members,
who must
reach consensus
raise awareness
trade issues.
through
rounds ofofnegotiations.

47

Trade
Negotiations

Trade negotiations in 2015

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Trade negotiations in 2015
In 2015, the Trade Negotiations Committee and its subsidiary bodies focused on delivering
meaningful outcomes for the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December. In the first
half of the year, WTO members focused on preparing a post-Bali work programme. Although
members ultimately failed to establish this programme, they redoubled efforts in the second
half of the year to deliver substantive outcomes in Nairobi. Negotiations at the Ministerial
Conference concluded with six ministerial decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related
to least developed countries, known collectively as the “Nairobi Package”. Ministers also
issued a declaration on the future of the WTO and members’ divergent views on the
Doha Round.

Post-Bali work programme

Deliverables for Nairobi

The Ninth Ministerial Conference in Bali had instructed the
Trade Negotiations Committee (TNC) to prepare a clearly
deﬁned work programme on the remaining Doha Development
Agenda (DDA) issues. Work took place on three tracks: in
negotiating groups, consultations by the TNC chair DirectorGeneral Roberto Azevêdo in different conﬁgurations,
and meetings of the full membership at the level of heads
of delegation.

From September, WTO members intensiﬁed work on potential
outcomes for the Nairobi Ministerial Conference. Reporting on
his consultations, the TNC chair told a meeting in September
that it was time to start working intensely on those issues where
there appeared to be more convergence. He reported that
export competition in agriculture, development issues, with a
particular focus on least-developed countries (LDCs), and some
transparency provisions in various areas had emerged as the
areas where consensus seemed most likely. He encouraged the
respective chairs of the negotiating groups to intensify work in their
groups and also intensiﬁed his own consultations on a number
of issues.

Despite much effort and engagement, no substantive progress
was made and signiﬁcant differences remained across many
key areas. Consultations continued until 31 July to explore all
avenues. At a 31 July TNC meeting, the chair reported that
he had not seen the progress necessary to deliver on the
ministers’ instructions. The chair asked WTO members to use
their summer break to reﬂect and to return in September fully
committed to making the upcoming Ministerial Conference
a success.

Background on trade negotiations
At the WTO’s Fourth Ministerial Conference in Doha,
Qatar, in November 2001, WTO members agreed to
launch a new round of trade negotiations. They also
agreed to work on other issues, in particular the
implementation of the current WTO agreements.
The entire package is called the Doha Development
Agenda. The negotiations take place in the Trade
Negotiations Committee (TNC) and its subsidiaries,
which are regular councils and committees meeting
in special session or specially created negotiating
bodies. The negotiating bodies report to the TNC,
which supervises the overall conduct of their work.

In the discussions, divergent positions started to emerge about the
future of the Doha Round after the Tenth Ministerial Conference
(MC10). A parallel negotiating process was launched to discuss
a potential outcome document for MC10 that would take stock
of decisions taken at the Conference, including on the Doha
Development Agenda (DDA), and give guidance on future work.
Work in the negotiating groups continued in various
conﬁgurations. WTO members submitted textual proposals,
and text-based negotiations were carried out in some areas.
However, at the 7 December meeting of the General Council – the
last before the start of the Ministerial Conference – the chair of
the TNC reported that progress on some key issues was difﬁcult,
even on export competition, where text-based negotiations had
begun. On extending a waiver for preferential access for LDC
services, WTO members had agreed that a draft text provided a
basis for continuing work. Members were also close to agreeing
a draft ministerial decision on preferential rules of origin for
LDCs (see page 39).
The TNC chair concluded that, as of 7 December, the only certain
deliverables for the Nairobi Conference were three draft decisions
in the area of regular work (see page 50). However, he said there

Trade negotiations in 2015
www.wto.org/tnc

32

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Trade
Negotiations

As Chair of the
Trade Negotiations
Committee,
Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo
regularly reported on
the activities of the
negotiating groups.

was still a chance of delivering some signiﬁcant elements for
Nairobi and urged WTO members to increase their efforts.

Preparatory process for
Ministerial Declaration
At the General Council in October, WTO members discussed
a potential Ministerial Declaration in Nairobi. At an informal
meeting of heads of delegation, the TNC chair appointed three
facilitators to assist him and the chair of the General Council
in this process: Ambassador Gabriel Duque of Colombia,
Ambassador Harald Neple of Norway and Ambassador
Stephen Karau of Kenya.
The facilitators consulted extensively with WTO members and
presented a report on the structure, elements and process
to lead members to a consensual text. There was rapid
convergence on how the declaration should be divided into
three parts: an introduction focusing on the importance of
the multilateral trading system, the deliverables of the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference, and the future work of the WTO after
Nairobi. There were clear differences among WTO members
about the future of the Doha Round and on the possibility of
extending negotiations to other areas not covered in the DDA.
These issues were not addressed by the facilitators.
WTO members submitted textual proposals on what they
wished to see in the Ministerial Declaration, and the facilitators
were requested to produce a compilation of these proposals.
They were subsequently asked to produce a draft consolidated
text. Text-based negotiations among WTO members continued
on the basis of the facilitators’ draft.
By the General Council meeting on 7 December – the
last before the start of MC10 – WTO members had made
substantial progress. However, bracketed texts – indicating
areas where agreement could not be reached – remained in
some areas. Contentious issues, namely the reafﬁrmation of

the DDA and how to address new issues, which had not been
addressed in the facilitators’ consultations, were forwarded to
ministers in Nairobi.

Consultations continue in Nairobi
The chair of MC10, Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for Foreign
Affairs Amina Mohamed, and DG Azevêdo announced that
informal meetings open to all WTO members at the level of
heads of delegation would continue throughout the conference
in parallel with the formal plenary meetings. These informal
meetings would constitute the core forum for facilitating
discussion and consensus-building on the various texts that
would be put forward for formal consideration and action by
ministers, including the text of a draft Ministerial Declaration.
Some ministers were asked to act as facilitators to assist in
and help speed up the negotiations.
The facilitators were Norway’s Minister of Foreign Affairs
Børge Brende, Mexico’s Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso
Guajardo Villarreal, Lesotho’s Trade Minister Joshua Setipa,
Rwanda’s Trade Minister François Kanimba, Jamaica’s Foreign
Affairs Minister Arnold Nicholson and WTO Deputy DirectorGeneral Yonov Frederick Agah.
While not all issues could be agreed, draft texts in a number
of areas, including agriculture, cotton and LDC issues,
as well as a ﬁnal draft text of the Ministerial Declaration,
were presented at an informal heads of delegations meeting
on 19 December, the ﬁnal day of the conference. Late in the
afternoon, heads of delegations reached agreement to transmit
the texts to the formal plenary session of the Ministerial
Conference, held immediately afterwards, for ministers to
consider. The result was a ﬁnal Ministerial Declaration, which
listed six decisions on agriculture, including an end to farm
export subsidies, cotton and LDC issues (see page 20).
The declaration also included a section on the future of
the WTO.

Trade negotiations in 2015
www.wto.org/tnc
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Future work
In the Ministerial Declaration, ministers acknowledged that
WTO members “have different views” on the future of the
Doha Round negotiations but noted the “strong commitment
of all members to advance negotiations on the remaining Doha
issues”. Some members “wish to identify and discuss other
issues for negotiation; others do not. Any decision to launch
negotiations multilaterally on such issues would need to be
agreed by all members,” ministers stated in the declaration.

Ambassador
Vangelis Vitalis
chaired the
agriculture
negotiations
in 2015.

Agriculture
The Tenth Ministerial Conference (MC10) took four
decisions on agriculture, including a historic
decision to end export subsidies. The other
decisions were on cotton, the special safeguard
mechanism for developing countries and public
stockholding for food security. The Nairobi
Ministerial Declaration contained a strong
commitment to advance work in all areas of the
agriculture negotiations.
Intensive negotiations took place throughout the year in various
conﬁgurations, with a view to identifying what could constitute
an agricultural outcome at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in
Nairobi. They were complemented by a series of consultations
held by Director-General Roberto Azevêdo on various key
issues in close cooperation with the chairs of the special
session of the Committee on Agriculture, ﬁrst Ambassador
John Adank and then, from September, Ambassador Vangelis
Vitalis, both of New Zealand.
Initially attention had focused on all three pillars of the
agriculture negotiations – domestic support (subsidies), market
access and export competition – together with cotton and the
search for agreement on a permanent solution to the issue of

public stockholding of food for food security purposes.
The latter is on a separate but parallel negotiating track outside
the agriculture negotiations in the Doha Round. As for other
areas of the Doha Round, the agriculture negotiations were
aiming for agreement on a work programme by 31 July 2015,
as called for by the General Council. But this proved
impossible, with no narrowing of differences on domestic
support and market access.
Over the second part of the year, it became clear that export
competition (export subsidies and export measures with
equivalent effect) offered the best chance of agreement in
Nairobi. Another issue mentioned as a possible outcome for
the Nairobi Conference was the special safeguard mechanism
(SSM) — a mechanism for developing countries to temporarily
raise import tariffs in response to import surges or price falls.
It was also clear from the outset, as reiterated by Ambassador
Vitalis in November, that “cotton must be part of any outcome
from the 10th Ministerial Conference”.
In addition, WTO members were striving for agreement on the
public stockpile issue, as instructed by the General Council.
The only proposal on the table was one from the G-33 group
of developing countries from July 2014. This argued that
support given when governments buy food at non-market
prices for stockholding should not be considered trade
distorting and therefore be allowed without limit.

Background on agriculture
The agriculture negotiations began in 2000 under
a commitment that WTO members made in the
1986-94 Uruguay Round to continue farm trade
reforms. They were brought into the Doha Round
when it was launched in 2001. Broadly, the objective
is to reduce distortions in agricultural trade caused
by high tariffs and other barriers, export subsidies
and domestic support. The negotiations take
place in the WTO Committee on Agriculture,
meeting in special session. They also take into
account social and political sensitivities in the
sector and the needs of developing countries

4
MC10 took four decisions on
agriculture, including a historic
decision to end export subsidies.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs

34

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Intensive negotiations continued in Nairobi during the
15-19 December Ministerial Conference and these ﬁnally led
to the adoption of decisions in these four areas (see page 20).

Special safeguard mechanism
During the year, WTO members discussed the issue of the
special safeguard mechanism in a variety of conﬁgurations.
Despite intensive efforts, including the submission of new
proposals by the G-33, no convergence had been achieved
with respect to details of the mechanism in the lead up to the
Ministerial Conference.
The G-33 introduced a few changes to previous proposals in
terms of the products subject to tariff increases, the extent and
duration of such increases and ﬂexibilities for poor countries.
Many developing countries maintain that the mechanism,
as agreed in principle in the 2005 Hong Kong Ministerial
Declaration, would help to protect farmers suffering from
subsidies by big players. Opponents of the proposal, however,
note that distortions in agricultural trade should not be tackled
by introducing more distortions.
In Nairobi, ministers reafﬁrmed that developing countries
will have the right to have recourse to a special safeguard
mechanism and speciﬁed that WTO members should meet
in dedicated sessions of the Committee on Agriculture in
special session to continue negotiations. The Nairobi decision
further speciﬁes that the General Council will regularly review
progress on negotiations in this area.

Public stockholding, food security
During the year, WTO members met in various conﬁgurations
to discuss the issue of public stockholding for food security,
including in dedicated sessions as mandated by the
General Council.
Despite the efforts and two new proposals – one by the
G-33 and the other by Australia, Canada and Paraguay –
WTO members could not agree on a permanent solution
as the divergences remained too deep. Proponents say
stockpiling is needed to ensure food security but others
fear that without appropriate disciplines, the procurement
of food at government-set prices may lead to an increase
of produced quantities and their subsequent release could
depress prices, so affecting farm incomes and food security
elsewhere. The Ministerial Conference reafﬁrmed members’
commitment to make “all concerted efforts” to agree on

a permanent solution and to continue to negotiate “in an
accelerated time-frame”.
The Bali Ministerial decision of 2013 had set a deadline of the
11th Ministerial Conference in 2017 for resolving this matter,
but in 2014 the General Council decided that agreement
should be sought by end-2015. Until a permanent solution is
approved, food stockpiling at administered prices will continue
to be protected from legal action under domestic support
provisions of the Agreement on Agriculture, as long as certain
conditions are met.

Export subsidies and related policies
In the second part of the year, WTO members engaged in
an in-depth negotiation on the so-called export competition
pillar covering export subsidies, export ﬁnancing support,
agricultural exporting state trading enterprises (STEs) and
international food aid.
In Nairobi, ministers took the historic decision to eliminate
agricultural export subsidies more than 50 years after a similar
decision had been made for industrial products. This will
be especially beneﬁcial to developing countries, where
farmers will not have to face unfair competition from products
beneﬁting from such highly trade-distortive subsidies.
WTO members will eliminate export subsidies according
to different timelines. Developed countries will eliminate
export subsidies immediately as a general rule, with delayed
implementation under certain conditions for a limited
number of products. Developing countries have longer
implementation periods.
The decision also contains disciplines on maximum repayment
terms and self-ﬁnancing of export credits, export credit
guarantees and insurance programmes. WTO members also
agreed to ensure that agricultural exporting STEs do not
operate in a manner that would circumvent the other provisions
of the decision. Finally, the decision includes disciplines on
food aid aimed at minimizing the risk of it distorting trade and,
more speciﬁcally, ensuring that food aid does not negatively
affect domestic producers and local or regional markets.
The decision also includes various ﬂexibilities to take on board
the speciﬁc concerns of least-developed countries (LDCs) and
net food-importing developing countries.

The abolition of agricultural export
subsidies, agreed at MC10, is
fulﬁlling a key target of the second
UN Sustainable Development Goal.

Trade negotiations in 2015
www.wto.org/agnegs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

35

Trade
Negotiations

As a result of this process, the Chair circulated on
9 December four compilations of proposals received from
WTO members concerning the special safeguard mechanism,
public stockholding and export competition as well as a draft
ministerial text on cotton. The latter resulted from the separate
negotiations held with the major cotton players, including the
co-sponsors of the Sectoral Initiative in Favour of Cotton –
Burkina Faso, Benin, Mali and Chad (the Cotton Four or C-4).

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Cotton
The decision on cotton taken in Nairobi covers market
access, domestic support and export competition plus a
development-related component. Developed countries and
developing countries in a position to do so agreed to grant,
to the extent provided for in their respective preferential trade
arrangements, duty free and quota free (DFQF) market access
for exports by LDCs of cotton and cotton-related agricultural
products (listed in the annex to the decision).
WTO members also agreed that developed countries
would immediately eliminate export subsidies for cotton,
with developing countries doing so by not later than 1 January
2017. Finally, on domestic support, ministers acknowledged
the efforts made by some members to reform their
domestic cotton policies, but emphasized that more efforts
were needed.
In 2015, the cotton transparency and monitoring process put
in place following the Bali Ministerial Conference continued
and two dedicated discussions of relevant trade-related
developments for cotton were held, in June and November.
As in 2014, the dedicated discussions were aided by a WTO
Secretariat background paper with information and data
from members’ notiﬁcations and other submissions on export
subsidies, domestic support and market access.
Members also beneﬁtted from presentations by the
International Cotton Advisory Committee (ICAC) on the
global cotton market and trade trends as well as on recent
developments relating to government measures in favour of
cotton. Members agreed in Nairobi to extend this transparency
and monitoring process.

Ministerial Declaration
In Nairobi, ministers declared that “there remains a strong
commitment of all members to advance negotiations on the
remaining Doha issues. This includes advancing work in all
three pillars of agriculture, namely domestic support, market
access and export competition”.

Market access for
non-agricultural products
The Negotiating Group on Non-Agricultural Market
Access (NAMA) met regularly in 2015 with the aim
of drawing up a work programme and presenting
some progress in the negotiations to the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi. However, “very
limited progress” was made. Ministers in Nairobi
acknowledged that views differed among WTO
members on how best to proceed with the Doha
Round but declared that WTO members
maintained a “strong commitment” to advance on
the remaining Doha issues, including NAMA.
In the ﬁrst half of 2015, the objective of the Negotiating Group
on Market Access was to reach a work programme by end
July 2015, as mandated at the Ninth Ministerial Conference
and subsequently extended by the General Council. During
this time, the Negotiating Group discussed how they could
move forward the NAMA negotiations and resolve a stalemate
in the talks. This stalemate partly stemmed from the difﬁculty
some WTO members had with the draft 2008 negotiating text
(commonly referred to as Rev. 3), and in particular the “Swiss
Formula” which was envisaged as the main means of tariff
cutting. The Swiss formula is a “non-linear” formula, under
which the higher the initial tariff, the higher the cut.
Discussions took place in various formats, including meetings
open to the entire membership, small-group consultations and
bilaterals. WTO members explored alternative tariff-cutting
modalities to the Swiss Formula, such as averaging. In terms
of concrete proposals, only one proposal on a request/offer
approach was submitted by Argentina. Regarding non-formula
applying members, there was some understanding that these
members – including small, vulnerable economies and leastdeveloped countries – would not have to do more than what
was envisaged in the draft text. In spite of these exchanges,
the gap between members could not be bridged.

Background on market access for
non-agricultural products
Non-agricultural products are products not covered
by the Agreement on Agriculture. These range
from manufactured goods to fuels and ﬁsheries.
Collectively, they represent more than 90 per cent
of world merchandise trade. The negotiations aim
to reduce or, as appropriate, eliminate tariffs as well
as non-tariff barriers, particularly on goods of export
interest to developing countries. The negotiations
are conducted in the Negotiating Group on
Market Access for Non-Agricultural Products.

Market access for non-agricultural products
www.wto.org/namanegs

36

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Services

The Chair of the Negotiating Group, Ambassador Remigi
Winzap (Switzerland), reported to the General Council on 31
July that “members have only made very limited progress on
NAMA”. It was not possible to “identify much convergence as
of today,” the Chair added.
Further meetings took place early in the second half of
the year in smaller formats convened by Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo, the Chair and individual WTO members,
with a view to presenting some progress to the Tenth
Ministerial Conference to be held in Nairobi in December.
But in September 2015, it became clear that a broad result
in agriculture, including on domestic support (subsidies) and
market access, would be extremely difﬁcult to achieve in time.
Under these circumstances, many members’ interest and
engagement in NAMA diminished strongly because it has long
been understood that progress in NAMA depends on parallel
advances in the agriculture negotiations.
In Nairobi, ministers acknowledged that views differed among
WTO members on how best to proceed with the Doha
Round. “Nevertheless, there remains a strong commitment of
all members to advance negotiations on the remaining Doha
issues. This includes … non-agricultural market access…”,
they stated in their Ministerial Declaration.
In respect of non-tariff barriers (NTBs), while some WTO
members believed that it would be useful to begin a
conversation on NTBs, others felt that a tariff outcome was
required before a discussion on non-tariff barriers could
commence. As a result, no discussions were pursued
on NTBs.

In the run-up to the Tenth Ministerial Conference
(MC10), WTO members made a number of
proposals in the special session of the Council for
Trade in Services on transparency issues as
potential deliverables for MC10. But there proved
to be insufﬁcient time to reach consensus on the
proposed texts. However, ministers adopted one
decision on services at MC10, extending the
current waiver period under which WTO members
may grant preferential treatment to service
suppliers from least-developed countries (LDCs).
During the ﬁrst half of the year, the special session continued
to consider possible services elements of a post-Bali work
programme, in the hope of meeting a July 2015 deadline set for
all aspects of the Doha Round negotiations. WTO members
recognized that services must form an essential part of any
Doha Round outcome and highlighted the crucial importance
of services for the growth and development of their national
economies and for world trade. It was understood that the
services negotiations need to be “calibrated” in some way
with those in agriculture and non-agricultural market access
(NAMA), yet there remained a wide range of views on the
nature of such calibration.
Several WTO members suggested that there should be a
discussion on what members want from the negotiations and
what they are willing to contribute. As a ﬁrst step, this could
mean that members would provide a list of sectors and modes
of supply they are willing to include or improve upon before
entering into “request and offer” negotiations. This would help
to determine the level of ambition for the services negotiations,
they argued.

Background on services
Services are the most important economic activity
in most countries when measured as a share of
overall production, and are the single largest source
of employment. The General Agreement on Trade
in Services (GATS) mandates WTO members to
progressively open up trade in services through
rounds of negotiations. At the Doha Ministerial
Conference in November 2001, the services
negotiations became part of the “single undertaking”
under the Doha Development Agenda. They are
overseen by the Council for Trade in Services, meeting
in special session, and its subsidiary bodies,
in particular the Working Party on Domestic
Regulation and the Working Party on GATS Rules.

Services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

37

Trade
Negotiations

Ambassador
Remigi Winzap
chaired
the NAMA
negotiations
in 2015.

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

A number of WTO members indicated sectors and modes of
service supply where they would like to see new or improved
commitments from members. These include express delivery,
transport and logistics, telecommunications, computer
services, distribution, ﬁnancial services, construction and
energy-related services as well as the temporary movement
of contract suppliers and independent professionals (mode 4,
i.e. movement of persons). The General Agreement on Trade
in Services (GATS) distinguishes between four modes of
supplying services: cross-border trade, consumption abroad,
commercial presence, and presence of natural persons.
In addition, the ACP (Africa, Caribbean and Paciﬁc) group of
developing countries called attention to a paper submitted
to the Trade Negotiations Committee, recalling the GATS
provisions that allow developing countries to provide market
access in fewer services sectors than in developed countries,
in line with their development situation, and the importance
of achieving liberalization in sectors and modes of supply of
interest to developing countries.
Members generally recognized that a result on services market
access was essential for any services outcome, yet expressed
varying views on the desirable levels of improved coverage or
depth of commitments. Most members recalled that the market
access part of the services negotiations would need to fully
take account of the need to promote development and the
importance of LDC interests.
Despite the various ideas put forward, WTO members were
unable to produce a text of clearly deﬁned work for services
for the post-Bali programme.

Potential deliverables for Nairobi
From July 2015, the special session held two informal meetings
predominantly focused on the possibility of deliverables for
the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December.
One potential deliverable, based on proposals by the European
Union, Canada, Australia and Russia, related to transparency
in domestic regulation in services.
Two distinct positions emerged on whether to start
discussions on a potential services outcome in transparency,
such as disciplines for the publishing of regulatory measures,
the establishing of mechanisms to respond to requests
for information by service suppliers and publishing of draft
regulation to facilitate comments of service suppliers.
Proponents expressed readiness to explore appropriate
development components. However, several developing
countries said they would not take on new obligations on their
domestic regulations.
Other proposals were made by India, regarding transparency in
the question of movement of natural persons, and by the ACP
group concerning the maintaining of ﬂexibility for developing
countries in all areas of WTO negotiations, including services.
In the end, there was not sufﬁcient time to reach consensus
among WTO members on texts related to these proposals
prior to the Nairobi Ministerial Conference.

Ambassador
Gabriel Duque
chaired the
special session
of the Council
for Trade
in Services
in 2015.

In Nairobi, therefore, the only services-related decision
adopted by ministers was a proposal that had emerged
from discussions in the regular sessions of the Council for
Trade in Services. The decision (see page 74) extends the
current waiver period under which WTO members may grant
preferential treatment to LDC services and service suppliers.
The waiver, adopted in December 2011, runs 15 years.
The ministerial decision extends this an additional four years,
or until 31 December 2030.

Domestic regulation
The Working Party on Domestic Regulation has explored
a variety of technical issues in recent years, including the
clariﬁcation of concepts and terms as they relate to regulatory
frameworks and practices as well as experience-sharing
of regulatory provisions in regional trade agreements.
One additional contribution was received on the latter issue,
but no further technical work took place.
During the ﬁrst half of 2015, the Working Party on Domestic
Regulation considered the relationship of the domestic
regulation work programme and the post-Bali work
programme. This work complemented discussions in the
special session of the Services Council focused on the
market access aspects of a possible services outcome.
Several delegations provided substantive views on their
domestic regulation priorities in the context of a post-Bali work
programme, which included provisions to discipline licensing
and qualiﬁcation requirements and procedures. Other
delegations reiterated that other areas of the negotiations
needed to progress before the issue of domestic regulation
could be considered in the same context.
During the second half of 2015, the special session discussed
whether transparency in domestic regulation could be an
element of a “Nairobi package”. While the proposal received
support from some delegations, various developing countries
expressed concern that cherry-picking “transparency” in
the services negotiations would undermine the focus on
development, particularly given the uncertainty on what the
Nairobi package would deliver for development.

Services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs

38

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Given the overall context of the Doha Round negotiations and
the focus on possible deliverables for the Nairobi Ministerial
Conference, 2015 saw little progress in the Working Party
on GATS Rules in its technical discussions on emergency
safeguard measures, government procurement and subsidies
(discussions conducted in accordance with the negotiating
mandates contained in Articles X, XIII and XV of the WTO
General Agreement on Trade in Services).
On emergency safeguard measures (ESM), the Working Party
continued its dedicated discussion on emergency safeguard
provisions in regional trade agreements, as proposed by
the “Friends of ESM” (comprising Brunei Darussalam,
Cambodia, Indonesia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Viet Nam) in
October 2013. On substance, however, WTO members
brought no new elements to the negotiating table.
On government procurement, the Working Party discussed
a WTO Working Paper entitled “The Relationship between
Services Trade and Government Procurement Commitments:
Insights from Relevant WTO Agreements and Recent RTAs”.
The paper discusses the relationship between commitments
on trade in services and government procurement in services,
with reference to relevant WTO agreements and a number of
recent regional trade agreements.
Concerning subsidies, the WTO Secretariat issued a revised
version of its background note on “Subsidies for Services
Sectors – Information contained in WTO Trade Policy
Reviews”. More conceptual work would be needed to better
understand how subsidies are provided and what trade effects
they might have.

Rules of origin
At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi,
ministers adopted a new decision on preferential
rules of origin that builds on their decision of 2013
to make it easier for exports from least-developed
countries (LDCs) to qualify for preferential market
access. The Nairobi ministerial decision provides
more detailed directions on speciﬁc issues, such
as methods for determining when a product
qualiﬁes as “made in an LDC”.
The 2015 ministerial decision on preferential rules of origin for
LDCs constitutes another step to ensuring that preferential
trade arrangements for LDCs have simple and transparent
rules of origin. It expands on the agreement on preferential
rules of origin reached at the 2013 Bali Ministerial Conference
by providing more detailed directions on speciﬁc issues,
such as methods for determining when a product qualiﬁes
as “made in an LDC” and when inputs from other sources
can be “cumulated” — or combined together — into the
consideration of origin. It also calls on preference-granting
members to consider allowing the use of non-LDC originating
materials for up to 75 per cent of the ﬁnal value of the product.
Key beneﬁciaries will be sub-Saharan African countries, which
make up the majority of the LDC Group.
When a good is manufactured using imported inputs,
preferential rules of origin set minimum requirements to ensure
that these inputs have been “substantially transformed”
into a new ﬁnal product which can qualify for preferences.
When such requirements are complex or overly strict,
LDC producers may ﬁnd it difﬁcult to comply with them and
not be able to utilize the preferences.
The Bali decision sought to ensure that these requirements
were not strict or overly complex. It set out, for the ﬁrst time,
multilaterally agreed guidelines to help make it easier for LDC
exports to qualify for preferential market access. It recognized
that each country granting trade preferences to LDCs had
its own method of determining rules of origin, and it invited
members to draw upon the elements contained in the decision
when they developed or built on their individual rules of origin
arrangements applicable for LDCs. The decision also required

Background on rules of origin
Rules of origin are the criteria used to determine
the country in which a product was made. They are
used in the implementation of many trade measures,
including trade statistics, the determination of
customs duties, labelling of country of origin,
and the application of trade policy instruments,
such as anti-dumping and countervailing duties,
origin marking, and safeguard measures.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

39

Trade
Negotiations

GATS rules

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

members to notify their preferential rules of origin for LDCs to
the WTO to enhance transparency.
Ambassador
Dacio Castillo
chaired the
special session
of the Council
for TRIPS
in 2015.

The decision by the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi
drew on proposals made by the LDC Group in negotiations
during the year in the Committee on Rules of Origin. LDCs had
sought to go beyond the Bali ministerial decision, which they
said had remained largely “non-operationalized”.
Speaking on behalf of the LDC Group, Bangladesh put
forward proposals at the October meeting that it said were
“based on existing best practices and drafted to reﬂect the
real-world problems LDCs were facing in beneﬁtting from
such schemes”. The proposals included adopting a maximum
percentage of non-originating materials of “at least” 75
per cent in the total value of the ﬁnal qualifying good and
recognizing self-certiﬁcation of rules of origin. In his report
as Chair of the Trade Negotiations Committee, DG Azevêdo
announced at a meeting of the General Council in October
that he had appointed Ambassador Steffen Smidt of Denmark,
in his role as LDC Facilitator, to take forward the proposals
of the LDC Group on his behalf and to act as “Friend of
the Chair”.
Ministers in Nairobi instructed the Committee on Rules of
Origin to review annually the developments in preferential
rules of origin applicable to imports from LDCs, in accordance
with their guidelines, and to report to the General Council.
The Secretariat was to provide the Sub-Committee on LDCs
with an annual report on the outcome of such a review.

Trade-related aspects of
intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
The TRIPS Council special session held a
comprehensive review of work on geographical
indications (GIs) but made no signiﬁcant progress
in 2015 on outstanding questions. WTO members
did not see GIs as a priority for the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in December. The Council,
in regular session, undertook its 13th annual review
of the incentives given to companies by developed
countries to transfer technology to least-developed
countries (LDCs). After detailed discussions about
the application of so-called non-violation and
situation complaints to the TRIPS Agreement, the
Council recommended a further extension of the
moratorium on such complaints, which the
Ministerial Conference subsequently adopted.

Negotiations on a GI register
Work on GIs was not a priority for WTO members in their
preparations for the Nairobi Ministerial Conference, and the
TRIPS Council special session made no progress on the
issue. Throughout 2015, the Chair, Ambassador Dacio Castillo
(Honduras), sought to revitalize the work of the special session.
In February, after a series of consultations, the special session
held an information meeting that included a comprehensive
overview of past work on GIs. But members showed little
appetite for work on this mandate in the short term.
Members have long disagreed over the legal effects a GI
register should have and whether the effects would apply to
all WTO members, or only to those who chose to participate
in the register. Positions also remained divided on product
coverage and whether, as the negotiating mandate says,
the register should be conﬁned to GIs for wines and spirits or
whether it could also apply to other products, such as food
and agricultural goods. The register is intended to facilitate the
protection of GIs for wines and spirits. These are indications
(including place names, or other terms or signs associated with
a place) used to identify products whose place of origin gives
them particular qualities, reputation or other characteristics.

Background on TRIPS
The Doha Development Agenda mandates negotiations
on a multilateral system for notifying and registering
geographical indications for wines and spirits.
The Council for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights (TRIPS) carries out the negotiations
in special session. In its regular sessions, the TRIPS
Council implements other relevant ministerial
decisions, notably those relating to technology
transfer and dispute settlement. The Hong Kong
Ministerial Declaration mandates the Director-General
to consult on certain TRIPS-related implementation
issues identiﬁed in the Doha Declaration.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights
www.wto.org/tripsnegs

40

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

During 2015, there was no work on the question of whether
the TRIPS obligation to give a “higher” or “enhanced” level
of protection for wine and spirit GIs should be extended to
GIs for other products. Members differ on whether extending
such higher protection would help trade in such products or
would create an unnecessary legal and commercial burden.
This question of possible “GI extension” is the ﬁrst of the two
so-called “outstanding implementation issues” in the TRIPS
area on which the 2005 Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration had
called for consultations by the Director-General.
The second of these issues concerns the relationship between
the TRIPS Agreement and the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD): whether – and, if so, how – TRIPS should
do more to promote the CBD objective of equitably sharing
the beneﬁts that arise when genetic resources are used in
research and industry. The main focus has been on proposals
to amend the TRIPS Agreement to require patent applicants to
disclose the source or the country providing genetic resources
and associated traditional knowledge that form the basis for
an invention. No further consultations on the outstanding
implementation issues have been held since the last written
report by the Director-General in April 2011. A number of
members raised this matter in the TRIPS Council’s regular
meetings during 2015 but no advances were made.

Incentives for technology transfer
In October 2015, the TRIPS Council, in regular session,
undertook its 13th annual review of the reports provided by
developed countries on the incentives they give to transfer
technology to LDCs. The TRIPS Agreement requires
developed countries to provide such incentives, and in 2003
the Council, fulﬁlling a directive of the 2001 Doha Ministerial
Conference, established a review mechanism to monitor
this obligation.

The WTO Secretariat organized an eighth annual workshop
for LDC and developed-country delegations to discuss in
more depth the operation of these incentives. The discussions
also covered harmonization of reporting formats based on
an LDC proposal and the Secretariat’s efforts to improve
the accessibility of the vast amounts of useful information
available. A representative from the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) presented plans for
a UN Technology Bank that would aim to address science,
technology and innovation gaps in LDCs.

TRIPS non-violation and situation disputes
WTO members made new submissions and had detailed
exchanges on the merits of applying so-called non-violation
and situation complaints in the context of trade disputes
concerning intellectual property rights. In general,
WTO disputes can be brought not only if an agreement
or commitment has been violated but also if an expected
beneﬁt under an agreement has been nulliﬁed even without
any violation of the letter of the agreement. However,
for disputes over intellectual property protection, the TRIPS
Agreement prescribed a ﬁve-year moratorium on initiating
“non-violation and situation complaints” and this moratorium
has been repeatedly extended by decisions made by
ministerial conferences.

Trade
Negotiations

Outstanding implementation issues

Debate in 2015 focused on possible consequences of
applying such complaints under the TRIPS Agreement,
and whether the existing framework of WTO rules provided
sufﬁcient guidance to allay concerns over possible lack of
legal clarity in this area. Members continued to disagree over
whether such disputes should be permitted under the TRIPS
Agreement, and over the grounds on which such disputes
could be based. Hence, the Council recommended that the
moratorium be extended, and the Tenth Ministerial Conference
subsequently maintained the extension while recommending
that the TRIPS Council continue examining the scope and
modalities for these disputes and make recommendations to
the next ministerial conference.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights
www.wto.org/tripsnegs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Trade and development
WTO members worked hard in special session of
the Committee on Trade and Development during
2015 to close gaps on a series of proposals on
special and differential treatment (S&D) for
developing countries to submit to the Tenth
Ministerial Conference, held in Nairobi in
December 2015. But differences remained too
great and no agreed text could be presented to
ministers. In Nairobi, ministers took decisions,
however, on rules of origin and a services waiver
that beneﬁt least-developed countries (LDCs).
In February the special session of the Committee on
Trade and Development received a list of 14 proposed
agreement-speciﬁc S&D provisions from the African group
and the African Caribbean and Paciﬁc (ACP) group, together
with another list of 25 provisions from the LDCs. S&D refers
to the special treatment, or ﬂexibility, granted to developing
countries in WTO agreements, such as longer implementation
periods and easier obligations. As part of the Doha Round,
the Committee is seeking to make these provisions more
precise, effective and operational.
After much coordination work, the G90 group of developing
countries presented consolidated proposals covering 25
provisions in July. The submission, which proponents said
was based on a thorough review of S&D provisions in WTO
agreements, covered areas such as infant industry protection,
sanitary and phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to
trade, and trade-related aspects of intellectual property
rights (TRIPS).

Ambassador
Tan Yee
Woan chaired
the special
session of the
Committee
on Trade and
Development
in 2015.

But positions remained widely divergent. Sticky issues
impeding progress included deﬁning exactly who should
beneﬁt from the ﬂexibilities sought, together with some
systemic concerns. Just before leaving for Nairobi, the Chair
circulated text on nine proposals identiﬁed as potential areas
of convergence among members. But these also failed to gain
traction. Last-ditch efforts in Nairobi could not bridge the gaps
and there was no tangible outcome in this area of work.
In Nairobi, however, ministers took two important decisions
that beneﬁt LDCs. They agreed to extend a current waiver for
preferential treatment for LDC services and service suppliers
until 31 December 2030. On rules of origin, they gave more
detailed directions on how to make it easier for LDC exports
to qualify for preferential market access (see pages 39).

The Chair, Ambassador Tan Yee Woan (Singapore), held a
number of meetings in various formats, including text-based
consultations in small groups. This intensive work led
proponents to prioritize a list of 19 proposals as potential
deliverables for the Nairobi Conference. Consideration of
these proposals continued throughout November, with the
special session convening almost every day in the run-up to
the Ministerial Conference.

Background on trade and development
Many WTO agreements contain provisions that give
developing countries special rights and that allow
developed countries to treat them more favourably than
other WTO members. As part of the Doha Round of
negotiations, the special session of the Committee on
Trade and Development is reviewing these “special
and differential treatment” provisions with a view to
making them more precise, effective and operational.

Trade and development
www.wto.org/developmentnegs

42

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

Trade and environment
The Committee on Trade and Environment in
special session (CTESS) held an information
session in March on the state of play in the
negotiations and discussed the way forward on
the environment chapter of the Doha mandate,
including priorities for the Tenth Ministerial
Conference (MC10) in Nairobi. Consultations
continued during the year. At a meeting in
November, however, there was general consensus
among WTO members that there was not
sufﬁcient time for an outcome on the Doha trade
and environment mandate to be reached at MC10.
The CTESS held an information session in March to review the
state of play in all three aspects of the environment chapter
of the Doha Round negotiations. The negotiations cover the
relationship between existing WTO rules and speciﬁc trade
obligations set out in multilateral environmental agreements
(MEAs), procedures for regular information exchange between
MEA secretariats and the relevant WTO committees, and the
reduction or, as appropriate, elimination of tariff and non-tariff
barriers to environmental goods and services.
Regarding barriers to environmental goods and services,
the CTESS chair Ambassador Wiboonlasana Ruamraksa
(Thailand) said it was clear that the trade opening efforts
on environmental goods being pursued by a group of WTO
members (see page 81) had affected the level of priority that
delegations were giving to the topic in the CTESS.
In September, Ambassador Syed Tauqir Shah (Pakistan)
took over as chair of the CTESS. Consultations continued
during the rest of the year on ways to advance the work of
the CTESS.

At an informal meeting of the CTESS in November, some WTO
members stressed the importance of sending an appropriate
signal on trade and environment in view of the other
international developments in 2015, notably the adoption
by the United Nations of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and the UN climate change negotiations in
Paris. Other members, while recognizing the importance of
the Doha Round trade and environment mandate, stressed
the need to ﬁrst address other core issues on the Doha
agenda – agriculture, non-agriculture market access and trade
in services.
There was general consensus that, while there was an interest
to remain engaged, there was not sufﬁcient time for an
outcome on the Doha trade and environment mandate at the
Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi.

Ministerial Declaration
The Ministerial Declaration issued at the end of the Ministerial
Conference referred to the Agenda for Sustainable
Development and the future work of the WTO on trade and

Background on trade and environment
The negotiations on trade and environment, part of the
Doha Development Agenda, address the relationship
between the WTO and multilateral environmental
agreements, and the elimination of barriers to trade in
environmental goods and services. The negotiations
take place in special session of the Committee on Trade
and Environment. The negotiations aim to ensure that
trade and environment policies are mutually supportive.

“We recognise the role the WTO can play in
contributing towards achievement of the 2030
Sustainable Development Goals.”

Nairobi Ministerial Declaration

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environmentnegs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

43

Trade
Negotiations

Ambassador
Syed Tauqir
Shah chaired
the special
session of the
Committee
on Trade and
Environment
in 2015.

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

environment. It stated: “We recognize the role the WTO
can play in contributing towards achievement of the 2030
Sustainable Development Goals [see page 119], in so far
as they relate to the WTO mandate, and bearing in mind the
authority of the WTO Ministerial Conference”.
The Declaration acknowledged that “international trade can
play a role towards achieving sustainable, robust and balanced
growth for all”. Furthermore, it stated that there is a strong
commitment of all WTO members to advance negotiations
on the remaining Doha Round issues. It also acknowledges
that members have different views on how to address
the negotiations.

Trade and transfer
of technology
The Working Group on Trade and Transfer of
Technology was briefed by various WTO members
on workshops, initiatives and projects in the area
of technology transfer undertaken in 2015. This
was part of ongoing work on the relationship
between trade and transfer of technology and
steps that could be taken to increase ﬂows of
technology to developing countries.
At one of the three meetings held during the year, Ecuador
briefed the Working Group on a workshop entitled
“Contribution of Intellectual Property to Facilitating the Transfer
of Environmentally Rational Technology”, held in May 2015 in
Crozet, France.
Organized by the Permanent Mission of Ecuador in
collaboration with German foundation Friedrich Ebert Stiftung,
the workshop gathered experts from the International Centre
for Trade and Sustainable Development, South Centre,
an intergovernmental organization of developing countries,
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), the WTO and academia to discuss a proposal that
Ecuador had earlier presented in the TRIPS Council on the

Background on trade and transfer
of technology
The Working Group on Trade and Transfer was
established at the Doha Ministerial Conference
in 2001 “to examine the relationship between
trade and transfer of technology and to make
recommendations on steps that might be taken,
within the mandate of the WTO, to increase
ﬂows of technology to developing countries”.

Ambassador
Luc-Joseph
Okio chaired
the Working
Group on Trade
and Transfer
of Technology
in 2015.

issue of technology transfer and climate change. The proposal
states that the issue of technology and its transfer is a
fundamental aspect of the ﬁght against climate change and
adapting to, and mitigating, its harmful effects. According
to the proposal, the timely dissemination and transfer of
technology are therefore essential for achieving that objective.
The Philippines briefed WTO members on some of the recent
initiatives taken by its government to encourage and generate
technology transfer. It shared information on speciﬁc legislative
measures, including the setting up of technology-focused
institutions to implement development-oriented
programmes promoting international cooperation and public
sector involvement.
Chinese Taipei briefed the Working Group on its e-Customs
information and communications technology project on
trade facilitation for Central American countries. The project
streamlines customs procedures by using high-tech integration
processes to reduce delays and transaction and trade costs.
The discussions of the Working Group underscored the
signiﬁcance of sharing experiences and lessons learnt in
innovation and technology generation, particularly by countries
that have undergone rapid technological advancement.
It was felt that such experiencesharing exercises not only
enriched and advanced the work of the Group but also
facilitated the ﬁnding of technology solutions and helped
technology-deﬁcient countries make more informed choices
about protechnology policies and measures.
India, Pakistan and the Philippines told the Working Group that
they were reﬁning an earlier presentation, “Facilitating Access
to Information on Appropriate Technology Sourcing – A Step
to Increase Flows of Technology to Developing Countries”.
They said that they intended to present the new version in
the near future. During the discussion, the proponents also
suggested that the WTO Secretariat host a webpage on
transfer of technology issues for the beneﬁt of producers in
developing countries. Other members expressed interest and
asked for more detail on the contents of such a website.

Trade and transfer of technology
www.wto.org/developmentnegs

44

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

WTO rules

In line with the instruction issued by ministers in Bali in
December 2013, the Negotiating Group on Rules held a series
of informal consultations and meetings to consider what, if any,
role WTO rules on anti-dumping, subsidies, countervailing
measures and regional trade agreements – the four pillars –
should play in the post-Bali work programme.
Members remained divided between those pressing for
progress in speciﬁc aspects, such as anti-dumping or ﬁsheries
subsidies, and those who argued that progress in rules was
not possible until it became clearer what could be achieved in
agriculture, industrial goods and services, the core pillars of
the Doha Development Agenda.
In May, the Secretariat held an information session on the rules
negotiations. Thereafter, during the course of the summer,
a number of delegations or groups of delegations submitted
proposals related to the post-Bali work programme, including
in relation to anti-dumping, ﬁsheries subsidies disciplines

Background on WTO rules
WTO members agreed at the Doha Ministerial
Conference in 2001 to launch negotiations to
clarify and improve WTO rules on anti-dumping,
subsidies and countervailing measures, and regional
trade agreements. In the context of the subsidies
negotiations, there was speciﬁc mention of disciplines
on ﬁsheries subsidies, and at the Hong Kong Ministerial
Conference in 2005 there was broad agreement on
strengthening those disciplines, including through
a prohibition of certain forms of ﬁsheries subsidy
that contribute to over-capacity and over-ﬁshing.
With regard to regional trade agreements, the General
Council established a transparency mechanism
on a provisional basis in December 2006.

and transparency across the different pillars of the rules
negotiations. While some delegations welcomed these
proposals, others said that elements in the proposals were still
far too ambitious and/or not properly calibrated to the current
state of play in the overall Doha Round negotiations.
Beginning in September, the focus turned to the upcoming
Tenth Ministerial Conference (MC10) in Nairobi. A number of
delegations submitted proposals for MC10 outcomes in one
or more of the four pillars of the rules negotiations, which were
considered in a variety of formats up to and including at MC10.
The negotiating group considered proposals for an outcome on
ﬁsheries subsidies in an eventual “Nairobi Package”, focusing
variously on transparency alone, or on transparency plus
certain disciplines and special and differential treatment for
least-developed countries. The group also considered a number
of proposals on anti-dumping as well as on transparency across
the different pillars of the rules negotiations.
But the differences remained in all areas of the negotiation
and, despite intensive work right up to the end of MC10,
no further progress was made beyond the area of RTAs. Here,
the Ministerial Declaration reafﬁrmed the need to ensure that
RTAs do not become a substitute for progress in multilateral
talks and instructed the Committee on Regional Trade
Agreements to discuss the systemic implications of RTAs for the
multilateral trading system and their relationship with WTO rules.
It also agreed that WTO members would work towards making
the Transparency Mechanism for RTAs, which is currently
provisional, into a permanent mechanism (see page 86).
During the year, work continued in the Technical Group.
While the Technical Group was created by the Negotiating
Group, it is not a negotiating forum. It is a forum in which
delegations exchange information about their anti-dumping
practices. The Technical Group met in April and October 2015
and exchanged information about WTO members’ practices
in regard to the so-called “lesser” duty rule, under which
authorities impose duties at a level lower than the margin
of dumping. They also discussed public interest clauses
(evidence for safeguard measures must include arguments on
whether a measure is in the public interest) and the treatment
of conﬁdential information in anti-dumping investigations.

WTO rules
www.wto.org/rulesnegs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

45

Trade
Negotiations

The Negotiating Group on Rules continued its
consideration of WTO rules on anti-dumping,
subsidies and countervailing measures, and
regional trade agreements (RTAs). It examined
possible rules outcomes for the Tenth Ministerial
Conference (MC10) in Nairobi but differences
remained in all areas of the negotiation. At MC10,
no further progress was made beyond the area of
RTAs. In the Nairobi Ministerial Declaration, the
Committee on RTAs was instructed to discuss the
systemic implications of regional trade
agreements for the multilateral trading system.
Ministers also agreed to work towards making the
provisional “Transparency Mechanism” for RTAs
into a permanent mechanism.

Ambassador
Wayne McCook
chaired the
Negotiating
Group on
Rules in 2015.

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Dispute Settlement
Understanding
Negotiations to improve the Dispute Settlement
Understanding (DSU) achieved further
convergence among WTO members in a number
of areas in 2015 but more conceptual work is
needed in others. Despite the progress, it was not
possible to agree any outcomes for the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi.
In December 2015, the Chair of the DSU negotiations,
Ambassador Ronald Saborío Soto (Costa Rica), reported
that convergence among WTO members had been achieved
in certain areas and signiﬁcant progress made in a number
of others. In some areas, however, further work at the
conceptual level would be needed to clarify the basis on which
convergence might be found.
Although it had not been possible to reach speciﬁc
agreements in time for the December Ministerial Conference,
participants remained strongly committed to continuing to
work towards agreement on improvements and clariﬁcations
of the DSU. They recognized the systemic importance of this
negotiation and its potential to lead to practical and meaningful
outcomes for the beneﬁt of all members, the Chair added.
Work during 2015 explored the potential for further
convergence across all 12 issues under discussion,
building on the elements of a potential solution identiﬁed in
the “horizontal process” in which all areas were covered.
The process was completed in 2014.
The 12 issues include third-party rights, panel composition,
remand (i.e. referral of cases by the Appellate Body to panels
for further action), mutually agreed solutions (including the
suspension of appellate proceedings on the joint request of
parties), strictly conﬁdential information, sequencing and postretaliation (i.e. the procedure to be followed when the parties
disagree whether compliance with dispute settlement rulings
has been achieved, either before retaliation has been granted

Ambassador
Ronald
Saborío Soto
chaired the
special session
of the Dispute
Settlement
Body in 2015.

– sequencing – or afterwards – post-retaliation). Other issues
under discussion include transparency (e.g. opening hearings
to the public) and amicus curiae briefs (when someone not
party to a case provides an unsolicited brief), timeframes
for consultations, speciﬁc developing country concerns
(including special and differential treatment for least-developed
countries), ﬂexibility and member control (involving issues
such as whether to allow the parties to jointly seek deletion of
parts of a panel or Appellate Body report), and ways to ensure
prompt and effective compliance with WTO rulings by WTO
members found to have breached them.
The Chair further highlighted that the increase in dispute
settlement activity (see page 102) made the work more urgent
and relevant. The negotiation and the work conducted to date
provided an important avenue for WTO members to address
current challenges and improve the overall efﬁciency and
effectiveness of the dispute settlement system.
In Nairobi, ministers noted that the DSU continued to offer
a means for the settlement of disputes “that is unique in
international agreements”. The large and growing number of
disputes demonstrated WTO members’ continuing conﬁdence
in the system. “We recognize that the increasing number and
growing complexity of disputes present challenges to the
system. We therefore commit to pursue and renew efforts
to address current challenges and to further strengthen the
system, including through effective implementation of the
rulings and recommendations of the Dispute Settlement Body
(DSB),” the Ministerial Declaration said.

Background on the Dispute
Settlement Understanding
In November 2001, at the Doha Ministerial
Conference, WTO members agreed to negotiate
to improve and clarify the DSU – the rules and
procedures governing the settlement of WTO
disputes. These negotiations, which take place in
special sessions of the Dispute Settlement Body,
are part of the Doha Development Agenda but
are not formally part of the “single undertaking”.
This means they are not legally tied to the success
or failure of the other Doha Round negotiations.

Dispute Settlement Understanding
www.wto.org/disputenegs

46

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Information Technology
Agreement

N

egotiations were conducted by 53 WTO members,
including both developed and developing countries,
accounting for approximately 90 per cent of world trade in
these products. The new tariff commitments will be recorded
in each participant’s WTO schedule of commitments and
applied on a most-favoured nation (MFN) basis, which means
that all 162 WTO members will beneﬁt from duty-free access in
those markets.

Participants in the ITA expansion negotiations had agreed in
July 2015 on a list of 201 additional products that will beneﬁt
from duty-free treatment. They then engaged in “staging”
negotiations on how and over what period of time they would
eliminate duties on these products. During November and
December 2015, with the assistance of the WTO Secretariat,
24 draft schedules were reviewed and approved, paving the
way for the conclusion of negotiations in Nairobi.

According to preliminary estimates by the WTO Secretariat,
approximately 95 per cent of participants’ import duties on
these products will be fully eliminated by 2019. Products
covered by the ITA expansion include new generation
multi-component integrated circuits, touch screens,
GPS navigation equipment, portable interactive electronic
education devices, video game consoles and medical
equipment, such as magnetic resonance imaging products
and ultra-sonic scanning apparatus.

Approximately 65 per cent of tariff lines will be fully eliminated
by 1 July 2016. Most of the remaining lines will be phased out
in four stages over three years, which means that by 2019
almost all imports of the relevant products will be duty-free.

Director-General Roberto Azevêdo said that the products
covered by the agreement amounted to more than global trade
in automotive products or global trade in textiles, clothing,
iron and steel combined. “In fact, this deal will eliminate
tariffs on approximately 10 per cent of global trade,” he said
in Nairobi following the announcement of the deal. He noted
that some of the IT products currently faced very high tariffs.
For example, in some markets, the import tariff for video
cameras is 35 per cent. “With this agreement, tariffs will be
reduced to zero — and legally locked-in at zero. So today
marks a very signiﬁcant achievement. Eliminating tariffs on
trade of this magnitude will have a huge impact,” he said.

The ITA expansion declaration also contains a commitment to
work to tackle non-tariff barriers in the IT sector (see page 71)
and to keep the list of products covered under review to
determine whether further expansion may be needed to reﬂect
future technological developments.

The lower prices will help many other sectors that use IT
products as inputs. The agreement will create jobs and help
to boost growth around the world. It will improve productivity
and market access, and enhance predictability for traders and
investors, the DG declared.

Background on the Information
Technology Agreement
The agreement is an expansion of the 1996 Information
Technology Agreement. In 2012, WTO members
recognized that technological innovation had
advanced to such an extent that many new categories
of IT products were not covered by the existing
agreement. Negotiations began in June 2012 to
expand the coverage of the accord. The ITA expansion
is open to any WTO member wishing to join it.

201
201 IT products worth
US$ 1.3 trillion a year have
been added to the goods
covered by the Information
Technology Agreement.

Information Technology Agreement
www.wto.org/ita
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

47

Trade
Negotiations

On 16 December 2015, at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, participants in
negotiations to expand the Information Technology Agreement (ITA) concluded a landmark
deal to liberalize trade in an additional 201 high-tech products, whose annual value is
estimated at US$ 1.3 trillion, accounting for nearly 10 per cent of world trade in goods. It is the
first major tariff-cutting deal at the WTO since 1996.

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
>

By the end of April 2016, 77 WTO members had ratified the Trade Facilitation
Agreement, which will come into effect once two-thirds of the WTO
membership have ratified it. Implementation of the Agreement will help to
cut trade costs by speeding up the flow of goods across borders.

>

In 2015, ten more members accepted the protocol amending the WTO’s intellectual
property (TRIPS) Agreement, which will come into force once two-thirds of
the WTO membership have ratified it. By the end of April 2016, 61 per cent of
WTO members had accepted the protocol. The aim of the protocol is to make
it easier for the WTO’s poorest members to access affordable medicines.

>

The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures received a record
1,681 notifications from WTO members concerning food
safety, animal or plant health regulations, helping to improve
the transparency of members’ use of these measures.

>

The use of trade-restricting measures by WTO members
is a cause for concern, according to the latest WTO trade
monitoring reports, as the overall stockpile of trade restrictions
introduced by members since 2008 continues to grow.

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

50

Trade in goods

53

Market access

55

Rules of origin

68

Agriculture

56

Import licensing

69

Balance of payments

58

Safeguards

70

Sanitary and phytosanitary
measures

59

Trade-related investment
measures

70

Technical barriers to trade

62

Information Technology
Agreement

71

State trading enterprises

72

Trade in civil aircraft

73

Subsidies and countervailing
measures
65
Anti-dumping practices

66

Customs valuation

67

Trade in services

74

Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS)

77

Trade and environment

80

Trade facilitation

83

Regional trade agreements

85

Trade Policy Reviews

88

Trade Policy Reviews in 2015

90

Trade monitoring reports

92

Trade, debt and finance

95

Government Procurement Agreement

97

Background on outreach
The
WTO maintains
regular dialogue
Background
on implementation
with
organizations,
and non-governmental
monitoring
parliamentarians,
other and
international
Various WTO councils
committees
organizations,
the
media
the general
seek to ensure that WTOand
agreements
are
public properly
to enhance
cooperation
being
implemented.
Alland
WTO
raise
awareness
of periodic
trade issues.
members
undergo
scrutiny of
their trade policies and practices.

Implementation
and monitoring

General Council

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

General Council
In 2015, the General Council made preparations for the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi
and submitted recommendations for decisions. It oversaw progress in the Doha Round
negotiations on the basis of reports from the Director-General in his capacity as Chair of the
Trade Negotiations Committee. It also oversaw progress in implementing decisions taken at
the Ninth Ministerial Conference in Bali, based on regular reports by the General Council
chair, Fernando de Mateo of Mexico. It heard the Director-General’s reports on the Fifth Global
Review of Aid for Trade and other matters, such as WTO accessions.

Ministerial Conference
The Chair of the General Council prepared both the
substantive and organizational aspects of the Tenth Ministerial
Conference. Delegations were consulted regularly on
organizational issues, such as the appointment of chairs and
other ofﬁcers for the Conference and the participation of
observers and non-governmental organizations.

“Reducing Trade Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth”.
He said that the review had been a success and that the Aid
for Trade initiative was already having a tangible effect on
reducing trade costs and in helping least-developed countries
(LDCs) connect to global supply chains. WTO members
stressed the importance of reducing trade costs and pledged
their continued support for the initiative.

The General Council submitted three recommendations for
decisions to the Nairobi Ministerial Conference regarding
e-commerce, small economies, and so-called non-violation
and situation complaints in trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights (TRIPS). Work to ﬁnalize Nairobi “deliverables”
– matters that could be agreed at the Ministerial Conference
– and the Ministerial Declaration took place in the relevant
negotiating bodies as well as in the General Council and the
Trade Negotiations Commitee.

E-commerce

The General Council also oversaw progress on mandates
given by ministers at the Bali Ministerial Conference in
2013, including on the drawing up of work programmes by
the negotiating bodies of the Doha Round (see page 32).
It reviewed other issues from regular WTO bodies for
ministerial action.

As instructed by the Ninth Ministerial Conference, the General
Council continued to review progress on the e-commerce
programme. The Friend of the Chair for e-commerce,
Ambassador Suescom (Panama), who chaired the dedicated
discussions on e-commerce on behalf of the General Council
Chair, reported in July that positions were little changed on key
issues, such as whether to make the current moratorium on
customs duties on electronic transmissions permanent. At the
30 November 2015 General Council meeting, WTO members
agreed to forward a draft decision on e-commerce to the
Tenth Ministerial Conference. In Nairobi, ministers decided to
continue the work and asked the General Council to keep the
moratorium on transmission duties until the next Ministerial
Conference in 2017.

Aid for Trade
In July, the Director-General reported on the Fifth Global
Review of Aid for Trade (see page 126) whose theme was

The Work Programme on Electronic Commerce, which
involves the digital transfer of goods and services across
borders, is carried out under the auspices of the General
Council, with the Council for Trade in Services, the Council
for Trade in Goods, the Council for TRIPS, and the Committee
on Trade and Development examining and reporting to the
General Council on various aspects of electronic commerce.

Background on the General Council
The General Council is entrusted with carrying out the
functions of the WTO and taking actions necessary
to this effect between meetings of the Ministerial
Conference in addition to carrying out the speciﬁc tasks
assigned to it by the Agreement establishing the WTO.

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

50

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Ambassador Fernando
de Mateo was elected
as Chair of the General
Council in February 2015.

The General Council considered and granted a number
of requests for waivers from obligations under the WTO
Agreement, as set out in Table 1. It also reviewed the following
multi-year waivers:
› LDCs — Article 70.9 of the TRIPS Agreement with respect
to pharmaceutical products, granted on 8 July 2002 until
1 January 2016
› Preferential treatment for LDCs, granted on 27 May 2009
until 30 June 2019
› United States — Former Trust Territory of the Paciﬁc Islands,
granted on 27 July 2007 until 31 December 2016
› United States — African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA), granted on 27 May 2009 until 30 September
2015 (see page 54)

of compulsory licences, referred to as the “Paragraph 6”
system (see page 78). The latter is a waiver permitting generic
versions of patented medicines to be exported to developing
countries with no domestic manufacturing capacity.
In November, the General Council received a report from
the TRIPS Council on implementation of Paragraph 6 of the
Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health.
The General Council agreed to extend until 31 December
2017 the period for WTO members to accept the protocol,
which comes into force when it has been accepted by
two-thirds of WTO members (see page 78).
In November, on the recommendation of the TRIPS Council,
the General Council agreed to extend for 17 years until
1 January 2033 the transitional period for LDCs to enforce
global trade rules protecting pharmaceutical patents and
clinical data (see page 79).

› Philippines — Special treatment for rice, granted on 24 July
2014 until 30 June 2017

WTO accessions

› Preferential treatment to services and service suppliers of
LDCs, granted on 17 December 2011 until 17 December
2026 (see page 74)

At a meeting in July, attended by Kazakhstan’s President
Nursultan Nazarbayev, the General Council approved the draft
protocol on the accession of Kazakhstan. It adopted the draft
decision on the country’s accession and the report of the
respective working party. Kazakhstan became the 162nd WTO
member on 30 November, 30 days after depositing its
instrument of acceptance of its membership terms with the
Director-General (see page 25).

› Kimberley process certiﬁcation scheme for rough diamonds,
granted on 12 December 2012 until 31 December 2018
› European Union — Application of autonomous preferential
treatment to the West Balkans, Granted on 30 November
2011 until 31 December 2016
› Cuba — Article XV:6 of GATT 1994, Extension of waiver,
granted on 14 February 2012 until 31 December 2016

Intellectual property issues
In February, the General Council heard an update on
implementation of the protocol amending the TRIPS
Agreement, which aims to make it easier for poorer WTO
members to gain access to medicines through the granting

The General Council considered at its meeting in November
the 2015 Annual Report on Accessions by the DirectorGeneral, which looked back at WTO accessions over
the past 20 years. The report said that the process of
accession and its results illustrated the value of the WTO
“in supporting domestic priorities for economic diversiﬁcation
and modernization, updating the rules of trade and promoting
broader international cooperation for trade”. The report also
highlighted the need for a post-accession support strategy
for new WTO members.

General Council
www.wto.org/gc
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

51

Implementation
and monitoring

Waivers under Article IX of the
WTO Agreement

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs)
At its meetings in July, October and November, the General
Council discussed proposals by the Philippines and other cosponsors for action to improve the participation of MSMEs in
global and regional markets. The Philippines proposed a forum
to share national experiences on MSMEs and to highlight the
opportunities and challenges confronting them (see page 54).

Other issues
The General Council heard updates about the chair’s
consultations on improving the guidelines for granting
intergovernmental organizations permanent observer status
in the WTO.

As part of its oversight function, the General Council
conducted a year-end review of WTO activities on the basis
of annual reports from its subsidiary bodies. All the annual
reports were forwarded to the Tenth Ministerial Conference.
The General Council reviewed the exemption provided under
paragraph 3 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
(GATT) 1994. This review of the exemption granted to US
legislation – the Jones Act – which prohibits the use, sale or
lease of foreign-built or foreign-reconstructed ships in US
national waters, takes place in the Council every two years.
The General Council approved the WTO biennial budget.
It also considered a report from the Joint Advisory Group of
the International Trade Centre (ITC), which is the policymaking
body of the ITC, the trade promotion agency for developing
countries jointly sponsored by the WTO and the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD).

Table 1: Waivers under Article IX (decision making) of the WTO Agreement
In 2015, the General Council granted the following waivers from obligations under the WTO agreements.
Member(s)

Type

Decision of

Expiry

Decision

Argentina, China and European Union

Introduction of Harmonized
System 2002 changes into WTO
schedules of tariff concessions

30 November 2015

31 Dec 2016

WT/L/967

Argentina, Brazil, China, Dominican Republic, El Salvador,
Introduction of Harmonized
European Union, Israel, Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
System 2007 changes into WTO
Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Philippines, Switzerland
schedules of tariff concessions
and Thailand

30 November 2015

31 Dec 2016

WT/L/968

Argentina; Australia; Brazil; Canada; China; Costa Rica;
Dominican Republic; El Salvador; European Union;
Guatemala; Honduras; Hong Kong, China; India; Israel;
Republic of Korea; Macao, China; Malaysia; Mexico;
New Zealand; Norway; Pakistan; Philippines; Russian
Federation; Singapore; Switzerland; Separate Customs
Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu; Thailand;
and United States

Introduction of Harmonized
System 2012 changes into WTO
schedules of tariff concessions

30 November 2015

31 Dec 2016

WT/L/969

United States

Africa Growth and Opportunity Act 30 November 2015

30 September 2025

WT/L/970

Least-developed countries

Obligations under Article 70.8
and Article 70.9 of the TRIPS
Agreement with respect to
pharmaceutical products

30 November 2015

1 January 2033

WT/L/971

Canada

CARIBCAN

28 July 2015

31 December 2023

WT/L/958

United States

Caribbean Basin Economic
Recovery Act

5 May 2015

31 December
2019

WT/L/950

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

52

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Trade in goods

Trade concerns
The Goods Council discussed a large number of trade
concerns raised by WTO members at its three meetings
in 2015.
Japan, echoed by Canada, Korea, Mexico and the United
States, reiterated its concerns that Ecuador had not taken
action to remove or correct its restrictions on imports of
automobiles and parts, which these members consider to
be contrary to GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade) Article XI on quantitative restrictions, and questioned
Ecuador’s justiﬁcation of protecting the environment. Japan
also expressed concern about Ecuador’s surcharge on imports
and urged it to notify this measure to the WTO Committee
on Balance-of-Payments (BOP) Restrictions (see page 58).
Colombia, the United States, the European Union, Guatemala,
Panama, Peru and Mexico shared these concerns. Ecuador
responded that its measures did not discriminate between
imported and domestically produced cars and were aimed at
reducing carbon emissions.
The European Union, Japan and the United States, supported
by Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, New Zealand, Norway,

Switzerland and Chinese Taipei, recalled the concerns
previously raised in the Goods Council and other WTO bodies
about a growing number of Indonesian trade and investment
restrictions affecting a broad range of sectors, including
agriculture, information and communications technology,
energy and consumer goods. Concerns were also raised with
regard to a prepaid corporate tax on importers, Indonesia’s
port of entry restrictions applying to certain raw materials,
its Mining Law restricting exports of raw material such as
nickel, and laws on trade and industry regarding minimum
local content.
The European Union, the United States, Australia, Japan and
Norway again asked Nigeria to respond to their concerns
over local content requirements in oil and gas, concerns
originally raised in 2011. Concerns were also raised by Chile,
the European Union, Iceland, Malaysia, Norway, Switzerland,
Thailand, the United States and Uruguay about Nigeria’s
regulations prohibiting foreign exchange transactions for
41 products. These included ﬁsh from Norway and the
European Union, as well as agricultural products, plastics,
aircraft and aircraft parts, and metal and metal products from
the United States.

Background on trade in goods
The Council for Trade in Goods is responsible for
the workings of all WTO agreements on trade in
goods. It consists of the full WTO membership and
reports to the WTO General Council. The Goods
Council has 11 subsidiary committees dealing with
speciﬁc subjects, such as agriculture, market access,
subsidies, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and
phytosanitary measures, import licensing, and customs
valuation. All these committees also comprise all
WTO members. Also reporting to the Goods Council
are working parties on state trading enterprises
and the Information Technology Agreement.

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

53

Implementation
and monitoring

The Council for Trade in Goods addressed a large number of trade concerns in 2015, reflecting
its increasing role as a forum for airing concerns about measures, policies and practices
considered potentially discriminatory or trade-restricting. It also considered a number of
waiver requests and took note of an updated and comprehensive list of notifications submitted
by WTO members. The Philippines delivered a statement about the obstacles faced by micro,
small, and medium-sized enterprises in participating in regional and global markets. Colombia
presented the conclusions of a panel on illicit trade and money laundering.

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The European Union reiterated its systemic and commercial
concerns over a series of Russian measures affecting the
transit of products through Russian territory, increased border
controls affecting mainly Lithuanian products and trucks
loaded in or dispatched from Lithuania, and the transit of
agricultural goods through Russian territory towards a ﬁnal
destination in Central Asia. Concerns were also expressed
over Russia’s industrial assembly programme and the local
content requirement to obtain preferential treatment as well
as subsidies provided to local automobile producers in areas
such as energy consumption, production of ecologically
friendly vehicles, employment and research and development.
Russia reiterated that its measures were WTO-compliant.

programme, which has been extended for another ten years
until 2025. It also extended a waiver for the US Caribbean
Basin Economic Recovery Act (CBERA), which offers
duty-free treatment or other preferential treatment for eligible
articles from 17 beneﬁciary countries.

Norway, Iceland and Switzerland raised concerns regarding
customs valuation practices in Ukraine. Norway said it had
received complaints from its seafood exporters about Ukrainian
customs authorities systematically rejecting the transaction
values reported by the exporters. Switzerland described the
practices as burdensome and non-transparent. Ukraine replied
that its customs valuation system was in full conformity with
WTO requirements. However, its regulations were undergoing
reforms which had already led to signiﬁcant improvements.

Regarding the EU enlargement of 2013 (Croatia), the Council
agreed to extend the deadline for the withdrawal of
concessions until 1 July 2016. It took note of statements by
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, New Zealand and Uruguay about
the slow pace of the negotiations. Following the accession of
Armenia and the Kyrgyz Republic to the Eurasian Economic
Union (EUEA), the Council agreed to their requests to extend
for 12 months the period in which interested members could
withdraw substantially equivalent concessions.

The Council heard concerns about various Chinese measures,
established since 2010, which included quarantine and
testing procedures and import licences for salmon and a
further 39 ﬁsh species. A number of members questioned
India’s decision to limit imports of apples to only one port
(Nhava Sheba). The EU, Canada, the United States, Japan
and Switzerland expressed concerns regarding what they said
were Pakistan’s discriminatory sales taxes, which impose a
higher rate of tax on imported over domestic goods. The United
States said a regulation adopted last year by Pakistan raised
sales tax on imported leather, footwear, apparel and sporting
goods from 5 to 17 per cent. Pakistan said the government
was considering withdrawing the measure and that an
indicative date for the withdrawal might be announced soon.
Brazil’s imposition of non-automatic licensing requirements
on imports of industrial nitrocellulose, which is used in the
production of lacquer and nail varnish, was raised by the
European Union, which said the licences were a de facto ban.
Brazil countered that the measure was being misrepresented
by the European Union as an import ban and that the
requirements were in conformity with WTO rules.

Waiver requests
The Council approved three collective waiver requests,
extending the deadlines for the updating of tariff schedules
under the Harmonized System changes (2002, 2007 and
2012) (see pages 55). It also approved a request from Canada
to extend a waiver for the Caribbean Initiative (CARIBCAN)
and from the United States regarding the African Growth
and Opportunity Act (AGOA). AGOA is a preferential trade
programme granting special access to the US market for
goods imported from 39 beneﬁciary countries in sub-Saharan
Africa. The AGOA waiver will run until the expiry of the

The Council continued to consider a waiver request from
Jordan to extend the phase-out period of an export subsidy
programme for domestic producers, in particular small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Jordan said it was facing an
“exceptional geopolitical situation” and that “severe instability”
in the region continued to negatively affect the country’s
economy and hinder the industrial sector.

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
In a statement, the Philippines said that micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) had become a critical
component of both developing and developed economies.
However, they faced a number of barriers that prevented
their integration into global value chains. The statement drew
members’ attention to the Boracay Action Plan to Globalize
MSMEs, an initiative of the Asia-Paciﬁc Economic Cooperation
(APEC) states aimed at addressing the cross-cutting concerns
of MSMEs.

Illicit trade and money laundering
Colombia, together with Chile, Costa Rica, the European
Union, Guatemala, Mexico and Peru, presented the
conclusions of the Panel on Illicit Trade and Money Laundering
in International Trade that took place during the 2015 WTO
Public Forum (see pages 140). The Panel’s objectives were
to sensitize the WTO community to illicit trade, a problem that
affected an ever-growing number of developing countries and
to stimulate a discussion about possible strategies collectively
to address the phenomenon.

Other issues
In 2015, the Council was informed about ten free trade
agreements (FTAs) (see pages 85) concluded and notiﬁed by
WTO members. Thailand notiﬁed the Council of its preferential
tariff treatment for LDCs.
Finally, the Council approved a draft decision concerning the
derestriction of the bilateral negotiating documents of the
Tokyo Round (see page 56).

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods

54

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

The Committee on Market Access heard a number
of trade concerns raised by WTO members. It
continued to make good progress in updating
members’ schedules of concessions to reﬂect the
latest international tariff classiﬁcation standards.
Members are making a big effort to provide tariff
and import data through the WTO’s Integrated
Data Base and the Consolidated Tariff Schedule
database. The Committee recommended the
derestriction of negotiating materials of the Tokyo
Round. Members expressed disappointment at the
low number of notiﬁcations received on
quantitative restrictions.

Trade concerns
A number of trade concerns were raised by WTO members
at the two formal meetings of the Committee on Market
Access. The European Union considered that Argentina
was applying discriminatory taxes against imported vehicles.
The European Union also considered that Pakistan was
applying discriminatory taxes to the detriment of imports
(see page 108). Switzerland asked the Kingdom of Bahrain to
explain why customs duties on cigarettes were being levied in
excess of the corresponding bound tariffs. The United States
and the European Union questioned Colombia’s excise taxes
on alcoholic beverages. The Dominican Republic expressed
concern at overland import restrictions affecting some 23
products imposed by Haiti. Finally, Chile questioned Nigeria’s
import restrictions on mackerel. In most cases, the concerns
expressed were supported by other WTO members who
requested that a prompt solution be found.

Background on market access
The Committee on Market Access provides a forum
for consultation and supervises the implementation
of tariff and non-tariff concessions not covered by
any other WTO body. It also seeks to ensure that
WTO members’ schedules of concessions are kept
up to date, including changes required to reﬂect
amendments to the Harmonized System (HS). This is
crucial for surveillance purposes (i.e. to be able to
compare tariffs in the schedules of concessions with
those applied in practice by WTO members). The HS,
administered by the World Customs Organization,
allows countries to classify traded goods on a common
basis. It has been updated three times since 1996.

Harmonized System (HS)
transposition exercise
The Committee continued its work to ensure that WTO
members’ schedules of concessions reﬂect the amendments
made by the World Customs Organization (WCO) to the
Harmonized System nomenclature, which take place every
four to ﬁve years. The amendments are typically referred to
by the year in which they enter into force. They include HS96,
HS2002, HS2007 and HS2012, with HS2017 soon to be
added. The “transposition” exercise helps guarantee that
members’ schedules are up to date and that tariff obligations
are transparent (i.e. allowing tariffs being applied in practice to
be compared with members’ legal obligations at the WTO).
Signiﬁcant progress was made on the HS2007 exercise,
with amendments to more than 102 schedules either certiﬁed
or under the certiﬁcation process, compared with 85 in 2014.
The HS96 and HS2002 transpositions are concluded for
most WTO members. The Committee is expected to begin the
HS2012 exercise in 2016.
As usual, the WTO Secretariat issued its “Situation of
schedules of WTO members” report, which lists in one place
all the legal instruments relating to each member’s schedule
of concessions.

Databases
WTO members have made a big effort to make available tariff
and import data, a process which is overseen by the Committee
on Market Access. The WTO Secretariat reported on the
Integrated Data Base (IDB), which provides information on
applied tariffs and import data as notiﬁed by WTO members,
and the Consolidated Tariff Schedules (CTS) database, which
compiles information on the legal obligations reﬂected in the
schedules of concessions. The Secretariat also provided
information on the use of information in the databases, the status
of software development, and technical assistance in this area.
IDB data coverage has signiﬁcantly improved in recent years
but some important gaps remain. A comprehensive dataset on
tariffs and import statistics is very important for any analysis that
WTO members might want to undertake. However, at present,
IDB data needs to be complemented with data coming
from other sources. For this reason, the WTO Secretariat
encouraged members to notify their data and help ﬁll in the
gaps. The Secretariat is available to provide technical support
on IDB notiﬁcations, and announced a joint pilot project with
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) to develop a module to collect information through
ASYCUDA, a computerized customs management system.

Quantitative restrictions
The WTO Secretariat issued a report analysing the
notiﬁcations of quantitative restrictions (QRs) submitted by
WTO members in accordance with the 2012 Council for
Trade in Goods decision that members must notify all such
restrictions in force every two years and any changes to those
restrictions no later than six months from their entry into force.

Market access
www.wto.org/marketaccess
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

55

Implementation
and monitoring

Market access

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The GATT requires the general elimination of quantitative
restrictions, which include prohibitions and other restrictions
on trade that do not take the form of a tariff or a tax. However,
QRs are allowed in a number of deﬁned circumstances.
According to the report, 27 WTO members had notiﬁed a
total of 731 quantitative restrictions on imports and exports,
with most of the restrictions taking the form of import/export
bans and non-automatic licensing procedures. At the formal
meetings of June and September, the Committee reviewed
new QR notiﬁcations from Australia, Canada, China, Japan,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, the Philippines, Russia,
Singapore and Chinese Taipei. Disappointment was expressed
at both meetings over the low number of notiﬁcations and poor
compliance with the decision.

its three meetings in 2015. This was down from some
80 in 2014. Members raised 200 questions on these
individual notiﬁcations.
The review of WTO members’ progress in implementing their
commitments on subsidies and market access under the
Agriculture Agreement is largely based on their notiﬁcations.
Members can also ask about agricultural measures that
have not been notiﬁed. Figure 1 gives a snapshot of the
proportion of questions on notiﬁcations raised by subject area.
The proportion of all questions posed annually to developing
countries has almost doubled since 2005.
Figure 1: Questions on notifications raised in the
Committee on Agriculture in 2015, by subject area
6.5%

Other issues

Export subsidies

6.0%

The Committee lifted restrictions on the publication on the
WTO website of bilateral tariff negotiating material from the
Tokyo Round. The negotiating records from the ﬁrst ﬁve trade
rounds of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
have already been posted on the site, and the records for the
Tokyo Round will be released in the near future.

Market access

Agriculture
The Committee on Agriculture examined how
countries are complying with their commitments
on subsidies and market access and discussed
issues arising from this. It reviewed a paper
submitted by a group of WTO members describing
trends in domestic support. In addition, the
Committee held an informal session to discuss
improving the implementation of notiﬁcations on
export restrictions and held a second dedicated
discussion on export competition.

Figure 2 shows the annual proportion of questions addressed
to developed and developing countries. In 2015, members
posed many questions to India and China relating to their
recently notiﬁed domestic support (subsidy) measures. China’s
notiﬁcation concerned its domestic support programme for
2009-10 while India’s covered 2004-05 to 2010-11.

The Committee reviewed approximately 58 notiﬁcations
of agricultural trade measures by WTO members at

Figure 2: Proportion of questions addressed to
developing country members, 2005-2015

Background on agriculture
The Agreement on Agriculture aims to reform trade and
make WTO members’ policies more market-oriented.
The rules and commitments apply to the areas of market
access, domestic support and export competition
as well as export restrictions and prohibitions.
The Committee on Agriculture meeting in regular
session oversees the implementation of the Agreement.
The Committee is also entrusted with monitoring
the follow up to the Marrakesh ministerial decision
regarding net food-importing developing countries,
which sets out objectives on the provision of food aid
and other assistance to the beneﬁciary countries.

87.5%
Domestic support

2005

38

2006

35

2007
2008

89

51

112

77
69

17

2009

57

40
38

2010

164

95

135

97
105

179

74

2011

201

2012

227

2013

206

52
233

2015
50

100

324

91

219

0

309

82

154

2014

319

118

150

200

57

276

250

300

350

Developing countries
Developed countries

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

56

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

The Committee discussed trends in notiﬁed domestic support
as portrayed in a revised paper submitted by the Cairns Group
of agricultural exporting nations, which compiled the latest data
notiﬁed to the Committee by the top ten agricultural trading
nations (counting the European Union as one).
WTO members expressed differing views on how to analyse
and evaluate which countries are important subsidizers.
Some focused on “trade distortion” (when policies cause
prices and production to be higher or lower than levels that
would usually exist in a competitive market) caused by large
overall quantities of support, including increases in major
developing countries. Others argued that those ﬁgures
overlooked the difference between the large amounts paid per
farm in commercial agriculture and the considerably smaller
amounts paid per head to poor farmers.
Many WTO members noted that the data depended on
notiﬁcations and urged timely notiﬁcation in order to strengthen
the review of trends in this area. Discussions beneﬁted
from additional information provided by some members that
extended the analysis and explored alternative methods for
summarizing notiﬁed information.

Export competition
In June, the Committee held its second annual dedicated
discussion on export competition, as called for by the Ninth
Ministerial Conference in Bali, to enhance transparency and
improve monitoring of the issue. Export competition covers
export subsidies, export credits, export credit guarantees or
insurance programmes, international food aid and agricultural
exporting state trading enterprises (STEs).
The discussion was based on a background document from
the WTO Secretariat circulated in May covering replies to a
questionnaire to WTO members on their export competition
programmes. A revised version of the document was circulated
in September. During these discussions many members
noted that an outcome on export competition was doable and
necessary at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in December.
In Nairobi, ministers decided to eliminate export subsidies
and prevent governments from reverting to trade-distorting
export support in the future. Following the ministers’ decision
(see page 35), the Committee will continue to monitor the
situation with respect to export competition on an annual basis.

Tariff rate quota (TRQ) administration
According to a decision of the Bali Ministerial Conference in
2013, WTO members are required to notify the Committee
of the extent to which their tariff rate quotas (TRQs) are ﬁlled.
Tariffs inside a quota are lower, often signiﬁcantly lower,
than duties outside the import quota. When import quotas
go unﬁlled, it means that exporters have missed out on
possible sales.
In this decision on TRQ administration, ministers established
a monitoring process within the Committee that combines
consultations with the quick provision of information about
factors, including administrative factors, that might contribute
to TRQs not being ﬁlled. In 2015, WTO members increasingly
began to provide ﬁll-rate information in their notiﬁcations but
they did not initiate the monitoring process.

Discussions on implementation
of notifications
The Committee discussed, in informal setting, issues relating
to the implementation of notiﬁcations, speciﬁcally in the area
of export restrictions. In these informal meetings, members
considered the deﬁnition of “foodstuffs” in the context of
Article 12 of the Agreement on Agriculture, covering export
prohibitions and restrictions, including the scope of the
notiﬁcation provisions under that article.

Notification workshop
Given the complexity of agriculture notiﬁcations, training and
technical assistance for government ofﬁcials involved in these
notiﬁcations is critical for enhancing the monitoring function
of the Committee. The Secretariat held its tenth workshop
on agriculture notiﬁcations on 6-9 July 2015. The workshop
provided specialized training to 26 capital-based

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

57

Implementation
and monitoring

WTO members raised 33 issues that were not related to
speciﬁc notiﬁcations, 18 of them for the ﬁrst time.
The remaining issues had been discussed at least once in
previous years. The Committee also looked at how well
members are fulﬁlling their reporting obligations.
Some delegations raised speciﬁc concerns about overdue
notiﬁcations, particularly on domestic support and export
subsidies. Many of the new issues raised in this context were
related to export policies, including various forms of export
subsidies. These topics included Pakistan’s wheat export
subsidies, US export credit guarantees, Switzerland’s export
subsidy budget, India’s export assistance and EU
dairy policies.

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

ofﬁcials involved in preparing notiﬁcations. Over three
days, participants attended lectures, received hands-on
practice, and met with Secretariat ofﬁcials to discuss
notiﬁcation questions.

Balance of payments

the surcharge as soon as possible. One WTO member
considered that Ukraine’s measure was not justiﬁed by the
BOP provisions of the WTO Agreement. The Committee was
unable to reach consensus and concluded the consultations.
The report of the consultations was circulated and sent to the
General Council for adoption.
As agreed during the BOP consultations, Ukraine removed the
measure at the end of 2015.

Ecuador
In 2015, the Committee on Balance-of-Payments
Restrictions held consultations with Ukraine and
Ecuador to review import surcharges they had
adopted for balance-of-payments purposes.
Ukraine lifted its measure at the end of 2015 and
Ecuador is due to do so by June 2016.

Ukraine
In February 2015, Ukraine introduced a temporary import
surcharge following a serious deterioration in its balance
of payments. The measure consists of a 10 per cent import
surcharge on agricultural goods and 5 per cent on industrial
goods, levied on all goods regardless of the country of origin.
A few essential goods, including oil and other energy products
and medical devices, are excluded.
In 2012-14, Ukraine’s economic growth declined due to the
impact of internal and external factors, including a fall in prices
and a reduction of global demand for major categories of
Ukrainian export goods, such as metals. In 2014, the negative
trends in the economy intensiﬁed as a result of the economic
and geopolitical impact of the military conﬂict in eastern
Ukraine, according to a document supplied by Ukraine.

In March 2015, Ecuador introduced a temporary tariff
surcharge for balance-of-payments purposes for a period
of up to 15 months because of what it termed the “highly
unfavourable economic climate”, including the sharp fall in the
price of oil, one of its main exports. The surcharge is applied to
38 per cent of Ecuador’s tariff lines at rates ranging from 5 per
cent on “non-essential” capital and primary capital goods to
45 per cent on ﬁnal consumer goods.
It is applicable to all of Ecuador’s trading partners, except
for Bolivia and Paraguay. Ecuador excluded these two WTO
members due to their status as countries of “lesser relative
economic development” under the Latin American Integration
Association (LAIA).
The BOP Committee held consultations with Ecuador in
June and October 2015 but was unable to reach consensus.
Following the October meeting, Ecuador presented a
timetable for the progressive removal of the measure, with a
ﬁnal phase-out programmed for June 2016. The Committee is
scheduled to continue its consultations with Ecuador in 2016.

The Balance of Payments (BOP) Committee held meetings
with Ukraine in April and June 2015. The majority of WTO
members recognized Ukraine’s balance of payments difﬁculties
and considered that it had applied the measure consistently
with WTO provisions, although they encouraged it to remove

Background on balance of payments
The Committee on Balance-of-Payments Restrictions
is responsible for the review of all import restrictions
applied by WTO members for balance-of-payments
purposes. Under WTO rules, measures can be
taken to safeguard a member’s external ﬁnancial
position and (in the case of developing countries)
to ensure a level of reserves adequate for the
implementation of programmes of economic
development. When adopting balance-of-payments
measures, members must give preference to
those with the least disruptive effect on trade.

Balance of payments
www.wto.org/balanceofpayments

58

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary
(SPS) Measures continued the fourth review of
the SPS Agreement, and held a thematic session
on risk communication. Thematic sessions are
one of the new approaches for experience-sharing
on important SPS issues. A workshop on
transparency provisions provided hands-on
training on SPS online tools and examined ways
of improving WTO members’ implementation of
transparency obligations, such as notiﬁcations.
The pilot version of the new notiﬁcation
submission system had its debut. Developing
countries accounted for a record 70 per cent of
all submitted notiﬁcations.
The SPS Committee held its ﬁrst thematic session on risk
communication, as a follow-up to the workshop on risk analysis
related to food safety, animal or plant health held in October
2014. The SPS Agreement requires that trade measures be
based on risk assessments or on international standards.
The thematic session examined risk communication
frameworks and provided a platform for WTO members
to share experiences and best practice concerning risk
communication strategies. It looked at guidance from the
relevant standard-setting organizations and questions
linked to identifying the audience and their communication
needs. Through thematic sessions, the Committee seeks
to encourage in-depth discussions among members on
SPS issues.
During 2015, the SPS Committee continued its fourth
review of the operation and implementation of the SPS

Background on sanitary and
phytosanitary measures
The Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and
Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures establishes the rights
and obligations of WTO members regarding measures
taken to ensure food safety, protect human health from
plant or animal-spread diseases, protect plant and
animal health from pests and diseases, or prevent other
damage from pests. Governments must ensure that
their SPS measures are based on scientiﬁc principles.

Agreement, started in 2014, including proposals submitted by
WTO members for possible areas of future work. However,
the Committee reached an impasse over adopting the report
of the review. A recommendation regarding the Committee’s
future work on private standards (see below) has been a major
point of contention. On a proposed catalogue of instruments
available for WTO members to manage SPS issues, members
have not reached a consensus on including a disclaimer to
clarify the legal status of the document.

Implementation of transparency obligations
A workshop in October on the transparency provisions of the
SPS Agreement provided interactive training on the use of
the SPS information management system and on the SPS
notiﬁcation submission system (NSS). A pilot version of the
new NSS was presented during the workshop as part of
the ongoing project to modernize the existing SPS online
systems. In addition, the workshop provided a platform for
discussion of a proposal, submitted under the fourth review,
on improving the quality and completeness of notiﬁcations
to enhance transparency.
WTO members shared their experiences in ﬁlling in
notiﬁcations, tracking notiﬁcations, handling comments,
and obtaining translations, and explored possible solutions
to the various challenges experienced in the notiﬁcation
process. Some of the challenges include how to effectively
ﬁll in notiﬁcations, limited access to the Internet and lack of
collaboration between the notiﬁcation authority and other
competent authorities. Members also discussed the difﬁculties
with prioritizing and dealing with a large volume of comments
received in response to notiﬁcations that have been circulated.
They discussed how to identify measures that facilitate trade
and that can therefore be implemented more quickly without
the comment periods granted for measures that restrict trade.
Participants included a large number of ofﬁcials from
developing and least-developed countries with direct
responsibility as SPS national notiﬁcation authorities
and enquiry points.

70%
Developing countries
provided 70 per cent of all
sanitary and phytosanitary
notiﬁcations in 2015.

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

59

Implementation
and monitoring

Sanitary and
phytosanitary measures

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Notifications by developing countries
Since 2008, developing countries have submitted more than
50 per cent of all notiﬁcations of new or changed food safety,
animal or plant health regulations with an effect on international
trade. In 2015, developing countries accounted for 70 per cent
of all SPS notiﬁcations, the highest percentage ever recorded
– see Figure 3.

Figure 3: Share of SPS notifications submitted by
developing countries, 2000-15
2000

26%

2001

36%

2002

47%

2003

35%

2004

Developing countries submitted 1,180 of the record 1,681
notiﬁcations received in 2015, representing a 15 per cent
increase for developing countries’ notiﬁcations compared
with the previous year. Seven developing countries submitted
notiﬁcations for the ﬁrst time in 2015: Burkina Faso,
the Central African Republic, Haiti, the Kyrgyz Republic,
Nigeria, Togo and Tunisia.
Notiﬁcations inform trading partners that there will be changes
in the importing member’s requirements and – unless there
is an urgent health protection issue – provide a period
during which partners can submit comments on these draft
regulations before they enter into force. When members
adopt a regulation in response to an urgent health problem,
they submit an emergency notiﬁcation immediately upon the
regulation’s entry into force, although they should still receive
and consider comments from trading partners. When there
are changes to a regulation after it has been notiﬁed, or when
a member wants to inform trading partners of a regulation’s
dates of adoption or entry into force, they can submit
an addendum.
As Figure 4 shows, the total number of all SPS notiﬁcations
has grown steadily over the years, reaching its highest level in
2015. The 1,681 notiﬁcations in 2015 compare with 1,633 the
year before. Of these, 1,166 were regular notiﬁcations (up from
1,057 in 2014), and 114 were emergency notiﬁcations (slightly
up from 111 in 2014).

1,681
A record 1,681 sanitary
and phytosanitary
notiﬁcations were received
by the WTO in 2015.

36%

2005

48%

2006

47%

2007

50%

2008

58%

2009

68%

2010

65%

2011

62%

2012

56%

2013

60%

2014

63%

2015

70%

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

Figure 4: Number of SPS notifications per year, 2000-15
2000

410

2002

468

6455

349

2001

144

524

2003

626

2004

297

598

2006

810

97

812
767

2008

788

855
101 1,155

242
333

272

345

915

2012

352

859

2014

353

1,057

2015

79

1,217
85

1,297
111 1,633

465

1,166

0

1,410

83

107 1,388

366

786

2013

106 1,265

76 1,016

982

2011

1 ,194

94

371

668

2010

921

121

186 71

2007

2009

856

161 69

503

2005

777

223
189

401

500

1,000

114

1,500

1,681

2,000

Regular notification
Addenda/corrigenda
Emergency notification

Figure 5 shows a regional breakdown of SPS notiﬁcations,
illustrating the very high numbers of notiﬁcations submitted by
WTO members in the Americas and Asia. In 2015, only two
regions increased the number of notiﬁcations submitted as
compared with 2014: Asia, 691 (up from 402) and Africa,
72 (up from 20).

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps

60

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Figure 5: Number of SPS notifications by region
North America
South America, Central
America and the Caribbean
Europe
Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS)
Africa

369
331
82
42
72

Middle East

94

Asia

691

0

100

200

300

400

500

600

700

Of the 403 trade concerns raised since 1995, WTO members
have reported that a solution has been found for 146 of them.
A partial solution has been reported for another 31, meaning
that not all those raising a concern accept the solution or that
a solution was found for only some of the products at issue.
Altogether, about 43 per cent of the speciﬁc trade concerns
raised in the SPS Committee since 1995 have been either
completely or partially resolved. For the remaining 57 per
cent, WTO members have not reported that a solution has
been found.

800

Private standards

The Committee considered a wide range of “speciﬁc trade
concerns” at each of its three meetings in 2015. Twenty-one
new speciﬁc trade concerns were raised and other previously
raised concerns were discussed again. The measures
discussed related to issues ranging from diseases such as
avian inﬂuenza and African swine fever to plant pests and
matters concerning approval processes.
New trade concerns included China’s restrictions on bovine
meat, Mexico’s measures on hibiscus ﬂowers, the European
Union’s and China’s policies related to genetically modiﬁed
organisms (GMO) and Russia’s restrictions on processed
ﬁshery products. Two trade concerns were reported to
have been resolved. One related to China’s import policy on
swallow nests and the other to several WTO members’ import
restrictions due to avian inﬂuenza.
Nigeria announced its intention to request a mediation process
regarding Mexico’s import measures on hibiscus ﬂowers.
According to Nigeria, Mexico requires veriﬁcation of plant
health certiﬁcates for consignments of hibiscus ﬂowers, a plant
commonly used in beverages, resulting in delays of up to six
weeks. Mexico said that the validation requirement was due
to its detection of false certiﬁcation by Nigeria.
Nigeria said it intended to request the “good ofﬁces” of
the Chair of the Committee to assist in resolving the issue.
The mediation process, a new procedure agreed by WTO
members in July 2014, offers a way of resolving differences
on speciﬁc trade concerns while avoiding a more complicated
legal challenge under the WTO’s dispute settlement system.

International harmonization of standards
Four new issues were raised under the Committee’s procedure
to monitor the process of international harmonization of
standards. These dealt with avian inﬂuenza-related restrictions
not consistent with World Organisation for Animal Health
(OIE) standards, use of the Codex international standard
on glyphosate, the risk of introduction of bovine spongiform
encephalopathy (BSE or “mad cow” disease) and the lack
of a Codex standard for the pesticide Imidacloprid used
in sesame production. Codex was established by the UN
Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World
Health Organization to develop harmonized international
food standards.
The SPS Agreement encourages WTO members to bring to
the attention of the SPS Committee any international standards
whose use or non-use is creating trade problems, or where
there is a lack of an international standard whose existence
could facilitate trade.

400
The Committee on Sanitary
and Phytosanitary Measures
has provided a forum for
WTO members to raise over
400 speciﬁc trade concerns.

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

61

Implementation
and monitoring

Specific trade concerns

The SPS Committee continued its efforts to develop a
working deﬁnition of SPS-related private standards, such as
those used by supermarket chains and other entities outside
government. A working group consisting of interested WTO
members had been attempting to ﬁnd consensus language.
In 2015, the Committee was unable to resolve all remaining
differences and agreed to have a “cooling-off” period for
the working group. Private standards are a growing concern
among developing countries, many of which urged continued
efforts to ﬁnd a compromise.

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Technical barriers to trade
In 2015, WTO members agreed on a three-year
work plan for the Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT)
Committee including work on good regulatory
practice, regulatory cooperation between
members and transparency. Members raised 86
speciﬁc trade concerns for discussion, the
second-highest number since 1995. An event was
held at the WTO in November, as part of the
WTO’s 20th anniversary activities, to look back at
the Committee’s work over the past two decades
on reducing trade frictions arising from standards
and regulations.

Work plan
WTO members adopted a new road map and a set of
recommendations for the work of the Technical Barriers
to Trade Committee for the next three years. This was
the Committee’s seventh triennial review. The work plan
covers themes such as good regulatory practice, regulatory
cooperation across borders, testing and certiﬁcation schemes,
standards, transparency and capacity building. The reviews are
intended to strengthen implementation of the TBT Agreement
by helping members adapt to a changing trade landscape.
The seventh review took into account 45 proposals from
WTO members. The adopted text broadens the scope of
the Committee’s thematic sessions – aimed at exchanging
experiences and developing guidance on the implementation
of the TBT Agreement – and seeks to make regulatory
cooperation between members more effective.
Under the work plan, the Committee will continue its work
on developing a list of voluntary mechanisms and related
principles of good regulatory practice. This includes initiating a
discussion on regulatory impact assessments. The purpose of
this work is to streamline the way that regulations are prepared,
adopted and applied so as to avoid unnecessary barriers
to trade.

The recommendations include a call for the Committee to
target technical assistance for developing countries more
effectively. They also mandate the WTO Secretariat to explore,
in cooperation with other organizations, the development of an
alert system for TBT notiﬁcations.

Specific trade concerns
WTO members raised 86 speciﬁc trade concerns (STCs)
for discussion, the second-highest number since 1995 (see
Figure 6). Measures affecting a wide range of products
were discussed, including tyres, toys, food and beverages,
and information technology (IT) products. Members raise
concerns about measures they believe are not consistent with
the TBT Agreement. These can concern standards, testing and
certiﬁcation procedures, regulations or labelling requirements
imposed by the importing country.
In contrast to the two previous years, WTO members focused
on following-up on previously raised concerns rather than
raising new ones. Only 37 of the concerns raised were new,
compared with 47 in 2015 and 42 in 2014.
Figure 6: Specific trade concerns raised in the TBT
Committee, 1995 to 2015
1995

6

6

1997
1998

4

4

1996

11

11
3

1999

6

2000

4

2001

11
17

13

7

22

15

2002

12

2003

12

2004

16

13
5

12

2006

12

2007

27

15

13

2005

32

20

27

14

24

12

2008

26

2009

58

32

28

74

46

2010

32

2011

32

61

29

75

43
59

2013

73

42

38

2015

85

47
49

0

94

35

31

2014

The Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) Agreement
aims to ensure that regulations, standards, testing and
certiﬁcation procedures followed by WTO members do
not create unnecessary obstacles to trade. The number
of regulations adopted by members has continued to
grow in response to consumers’ demands for safe,
high-quality products, the protection of health and the
need to curb pollution and environmental degradation.

46

27

2012

Background on technical barriers to trade

36

24
19

20

86

37

40

60

80

100

Previous concerns
New concerns

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

62

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Developing countries are increasingly raising STCs. In 2015,
they raised 14 new STCs, the same number as developed
members, while nine new STCs were raised jointly by
developing and developed countries (see Figure 7).
Figure 7: New specific trade concerns raised by
developing and developed country members,
1995 to 2015
4

4

1996

6

6

1997

8

1998

9

1999

2

2000

11

1 2

13

1 3
5

3
7

3

2001
2002

13

3

13

2003

9

2004

15

3

12

4
12

7

2007

24

5

20

2008

5

16

2

27

12

2009
16

12
6

2011
7

2013

14

12

2015

12
14

37

30

40

9

1998

650

1999

674

2000

608

2001

547

2002

587

47

501

10

20

Developed members
Both developed and developing members
Developing members

100

897

724

84

764

894

130

876

155

1,035

1,031
188

1,263

1,223
1,522

259

1,492

2010

397

1,432

2011

435

1,230

2012

2,235

677

1,466

500

2,137

509

1,558

0

2,195

624

1,628

2015

1,889
1,867
1,771

541

1,571

2014

In 2015, WTO members submitted a total of 1,989
notiﬁcations of new (or changed) draft measures
(see Figure 8), the lowest ﬁgure since 2011. More than
50 per cent of all TBT notiﬁcations were submitted through

625

38

2013

Notifications

633
574

27

2008
50

697

23
25

2009
0

681

31

640

2007

845

46

797

2006

40

386
40

799

2005

7

23

14

461

2004

43

8
35

20

19

2014

364 22

1996

2003

10

8

46

8

29

7

25

2012

32

4

26

2010

1995

1997

14

2 2

8

2006

20

2 1

3

10

Figure 8: TBT notifications, 1995 to 2015
15

11
17

2005

The WTO Secretariat continued to develop an online
notiﬁcation alert system in coordination with the International
Trade Centre and the UN Department of Social Affairs
(UNDESA). This system will allow increased access to sanitary
and phytosanitary (SPS) and TBT notiﬁcations, broken down
by product coverage or notifying member, and will be made
publicly available.

Implementation
and monitoring

1995

the WTO’s online portal, up from 34 per cent in 2014.
The system has enabled the WTO Secretariat to publish
notiﬁcations within two days of receipt. It also allows members
to track the status of submitted notiﬁcations through a user
interface and facilitates the preparation of similar notiﬁcations
through the use of templates.

523

1,000

1,500

1,989

2,000

2,500

Notifications
Addenda/Corrigenda

86
WTO members raised
86 speciﬁc trade concerns
in the Technical Barriers
to Trade Committee in
2015, the second-highest
number since 1995.

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

On 4 November 2015,
an event was held at
the WTO to mark the
20 th anniversary of the
Technical Barriers to
Trade Agreement.

TBT@20

Capacity building

An event to mark 20 years of the TBT Agreement attracted over
250 participants, including around 80 from the private sector
and academia, on 4 November 2015. The aim of the event was
to highlight the role of the TBT Committee in reducing trade
tensions and in avoiding disputes in the area of standards and
regulations over the past two decades.

Demand for technical assistance has increased signiﬁcantly
over the last few years. In 2015, the WTO Secretariat
organized 37 training activities. These included four regional
workshops, 13 national workshops and an advanced course in
Geneva on the TBT Agreement. The activities were designed
to help participants expand their understanding of the TBT
Agreement, to discuss challenges in implementing the TBT
Agreement and to better engage in the work of the TBT
Committee. Particular emphasis was placed on transparency
issues and national coordination. Several of the training
activities also covered the SPS Agreement.

In his opening speech, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo said
that the work in this area “often goes unseen and unremarked
upon – but it is one of the key strengths of the multilateral
trading system. Over the last 20 years it has become a
well-functioning, dynamic mechanism for addressing matters of
everyday commercial and social signiﬁcance – from chemicals
in toys, to carbon footprint labelling, to test procedures for
medical devices and pharmaceuticals.”
Three panels looked into different aspects of the Committee’s
work. The ﬁrst highlighted its success in developing
good practice for implementing the TBT Agreement and
in limiting or reducing technical barriers to trade. A second
panel looked at the broader relevance of the work of the
TBT Committee in relation to businesses, trade associations
and consumers. Speakers included representatives from
international companies and standards organizations.
A third panel looked at how the TBT Agreement will be
implemented in the future. Some of the challenges identiﬁed
included reviewing how regional trade agreements address
TBT issues, how trade barriers can be reduced in the area of
testing and certiﬁcation and how developing countries can
participate more effectively in the work of the TBT Committee.

Observers
The TBT Committee received updates in 2015 from
representatives of various observer organizations – the
Bureau International des Poids et Mesures, the FAO/
WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission, the International
Electrotechnical Commission, the International Organization
for Standardization, the International Trade Centre, the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe and the World
Health Organization – on their latest activities, including on
technical assistance.
The Committee granted ad hoc observer status to the African
Organization for Standardization and the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development.

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

64

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

The WTO’s Committee on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures focused on encouraging
more WTO members to notify their subsidy
programmes and on improving the timeliness and
completeness of notiﬁcations. The chairs
expressed serious concern that a signiﬁcant
number of members have yet to make new and full
notiﬁcations for the latest notiﬁcation periods,
2013 and 2015. The ﬁnal two-year phase-out
period for the export subsidies of 19 developing
members expired at the end of 2015.
The Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM)
Committee reviewed WTO members’ notiﬁcations of speciﬁc
subsidies, notiﬁcations of countervailing duty legislation,
semi-annual reports of countervailing actions and ad hoc
notiﬁcations of preliminary and ﬁnal countervailing measures
taken. At the Committee’s regular meeting in April, the then
Chair Eduardo Minoru Chikusa, of Brazil, expressed serious
concern about the state of subsidy notiﬁcations. His successor
as Chair, Mitsuhiro Fukuyama of Japan, reiterated this concern
at the October meeting. He urged the 65 members that had
not made their 2013 new and full subsidy notiﬁcations and
the 106 members that had not made their 2015 new and full
subsidy notiﬁcations by the 30 June deadline to explain why.
The Committee began its consideration of 2015 new and full
notiﬁcations and continued its consideration of new and full
notiﬁcations for prior periods (2013, 2011, 2009, and 2007).
At both its spring and autumn meetings, the Committee
continued its discussions of ways to improve the timeliness
and completeness of notiﬁcations and other information ﬂows
on trade measures under the SCM Agreement.
Regarding extending the period for elimination of the export
subsidy programmes of 19 developing-country members,
the Committee took no further action. For these members,
the ﬁnal two-year phase-out period for the elimination of export
subsidies expired at the end of December 2015. At the autumn

meeting, the Chair reminded the members involved that they
were required to eliminate their export subsidies not later than
31 December 2015 and to provide their ﬁnal transparency
notiﬁcations not later than 30 June 2016.
Certain other developing countries are exempted from the
general requirement to eliminate export subsidies so long as
they remain least-developed countries (LDCs) or if they are
listed individually in Annex VII to the SCM Agreement and
remain below the US$ 1,000 threshold for per capita GNP.
According to a ministerial decision taken in Doha in 2001,
a WTO member listed individually in Annex VII remains there
until its per capita gross national income (GNI) is above
US$ 1,000, calculated in constant 1990 dollars, for three
consecutive years. The World Bank calculates the deﬂated
per capita GNI ﬁgures for the members concerned once per
year. According to the most recent of these calculations,
performed in 2015, the listed members remaining in Annex VII
are Bolivia, Cameroon, Congo, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Guyana,
Honduras, India, Kenya, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Senegal
and Zimbabwe. In addition, all members designated as LDCs
by the United Nations are included in Annex VII and are exempt
from the export subsidy prohibition.
The Committee reviewed notiﬁcations related to the
countervailing duty legislation of Armenia, Australia, Bahrain,
Brazil, Cameroon, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
Figure 9: Countervailing initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 1995 to end-June 2015*
1995

10

1996

7

1997

16

1998

25

1999

41

2000

18

2001

27

2002

9

2003

15

2004

8

2005

6

2006

8

2007

11

2008

16

2009

28

2010

Background on subsidies and
countervailing measures
The Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM)
Agreement regulates WTO members’ use of subsidies
and of countervailing measures on subsidized imports
of a product found to be injuring domestic producers
of that product. The SCM Committee serves as a
forum for members to discuss the implementation of
the SCM Agreement and any matters arising from this.

9

2011

25

2012

23

2013

33

2014

45

30.06.2015

15

0

10

20

30

40

50

*Figure 9 covers initiations up to the end of June 2015. Data for the second half of
2015 are not yet available.

Subsidies and countervailing measures
www.wto.org/scm
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

65

Implementation
and monitoring

Subsidies and
countervailing measures

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The Committee also reviewed notiﬁcations of countervailing
actions taken (see Figure 9). The notifying members were
Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Egypt, the European Union,
India, Peru, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine and the United States.
As of 30 June 2015, there were 112 notiﬁed countervailing
measures (deﬁnitive duties and undertakings) in force, of which
60 were maintained by the United States, 18 by Canada and
15 by the European Union.

Figure 10: Anti-dumping initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 2015 to end-June 2015*
Argentina

4

Australia

3

Brazil

12

Canada

2

Chile

1

China

3

Colombia

6

Egypt

Anti-dumping practices

1

European Union

4

India

12

Indonesia

WTO members initiated 107 new anti-dumping
investigations from January to June 2015, just slightly
up from 106 in the same period in 2014. The United
States, Brazil and India were again the leading
initiators in 2015, along with Turkey. The Committee
on Anti-Dumping Practices reviewed new legislative
notiﬁcations, semiannual reports on anti-dumping
actions and ad hoc notiﬁcations of preliminary and
ﬁnal actions taken by WTO members.

4

Japan

2

Korea, Republic of

1

Malaysia

11

Mexico

5

Morocco

2

Pakistan

3

Peru

1

Russian Federation

1

Thailand

1

Turkey

12

Ukraine

Malaysia, Mexico, Turkey and the United States initiated
more anti-dumping investigations during the ﬁrst half of 2015
compared with the same period in 2014. Other frequent users
of anti-dumping investigations, including Brazil, China, India
and Russia, initiated fewer. However, the top initiators in 2015
were again the United States (15 new investigations), followed
by Brazil (12) and India (12), with Turkey also launching 12 (see
Figures 10 and 11).
WTO members taking anti-dumping actions used the revised
report format, adopted in 2008, for their semi-annual reports.
Many used the minimum information format, as revised in
2009, in making their ad hoc notiﬁcations of such actions.
Compliance with this notiﬁcation obligation has improved.
Following the creation of a more speciﬁc automated reply to
electronic notiﬁcations, most members have been providing
all their notiﬁcations electronically.

1

United States

15

0

2

4

6

12

14

Argentina

4

Australia

11

Brazil

29

Canada

3

China

4

Colombia

5
3
1

India

13

Japan

1

Korea, Republic of

4

Malaysia

6

Mexico

2

Morocco

1

Russian Federation

3

South Africa

1

Turkey

2

United States

13

0

5

10

15

20

25

Anti-dumping practices
www.wto.org/ad

66

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

16

Figure 11: Anti-dumping initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 2014 to end-June 2014

Guatemala

WTO members are allowed to apply “anti-dumping”
measures on imports of a product where the
exporting company exports the product at a price
lower than the price it normally charges in its
home market and the dumped imports cause or
threaten to cause injury to the domestic industry.
The Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices provides
WTO members with the opportunity to discuss any
matters relating to the Anti-Dumping Agreement.

10

* Figure 10 covers initiations up to the end of June 2015. Data for the second half
of 2015 are not yet available.

European Union

Background on anti-dumping practices

8

30

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

At its spring and autumn meetings, the Committee on
Anti-Dumping Practices reviewed semi-annual reports for
the second half of 2014 submitted by 34 WTO members
and semi-annual reports for the ﬁrst half of 2015 submitted
by 33 members. It also reviewed ad hoc notiﬁcations of
preliminary and ﬁnal actions taken by 25 WTO members at
both meetings. As of 30 June 2015, 32 members had notiﬁed
the WTO of 1,504 anti-dumping measures (deﬁnitive duties
and undertakings) in force.
The Committee reviewed new notiﬁcations of legislation
submitted by the following members: Armenia, Australia,
Bahrain, Brazil, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United States.
It also continued its review of the notiﬁcations of Brazil and
Qatar. Pending written questions posed about the legislative
notiﬁcation of Cameroon remained on the agenda of the April
and October meetings.
The Working Group on Implementation discussed
administrative, arbitral and judicial review of national legislation
containing anti-dumping measures. Some WTO members
made presentations or provided papers describing their
practices while other members contributed to the discussion,
posing questions or making comments.

The Committee held two formal meetings, in May and
October. The reviews of Lesotho, Ukraine, St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, and Uruguay were concluded. The Committee
received new or further notiﬁcations from eight members:
Cabo Verde, Guinea, Honduras, Montenegro, Nepal, Russia,
South Africa and Sri Lanka. The Committee continued its
examination of the legislation of Bahrain, Belize, Cabo Verde,
Colombia, Ecuador, Gambia, Guinea, Honduras, Mali,
Moldova, Montenegro, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Russia,
Rwanda, South Africa and Sri Lanka.

Implementation
and monitoring

157

1996

The WTO’s Committee on Customs Valuation
continued to review national legislation and
responses to a standard checklist of issues raised
by WTO members. The reviews of four members
were concluded and new or further notiﬁcations
of national legislation were received.

As of the end of 2015, 96 WTO members had notiﬁed their
national legislation on customs valuation to the Committee,
and 64 members had provided responses to the checklist
of issues, a questionnaire that facilitates review of national
legislation. The notiﬁcation record remains poor, however.
Thirty-seven members have yet to send a notiﬁcation and
71 have not provided responses to the checklist.

Figure 12: Anti-dumping initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 1995 to end-June 2015*
1995

Customs valuation

226

1997

246

1998

264

1999

359

2000

296

2001

372

2002

311

2003

234

2004

220

2005

200

2006

203

2007

165

2008

218

2009

217

2010

173

2011

165

2012

Background on customs valuation
The value of a good plays a critical role in the
calculation of import duties. The customs value is
indispensable for the calculation of ad valorem duties,
the most common type. It is also often required
for the calculation of other duties (e.g. compound
and mixed) and other border taxes. The WTO’s
Agreement on Customs Valuation seeks to protect
the use of tariff concessions by establishing a fair,
uniform and neutral system for the valuation of
goods for customs purposes, precluding the use
of arbitrary or ﬁctitious values. The Committee on
Customs Valuation manages this agreement and
the Agreement on Preshipment Inspection.

208

2013

287

2014

236

30.06.2015

107

0

50

100

150

200

250

300

350

400

* Figure 12 covers initiations up to the end of June 2015. Data for the second half
of 2015 are not yet available.

Customs valuation
www.wto.org/customsvaluation
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

67

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Rules of origin
WTO members heard presentations by several
organizations about the impact of non-preferential
rules of origin on international trade. This
“educational exercise” was aimed at furthering
members’ understanding of national rules in the
absence of harmonized rules of origin. The
Committee on Rules of Origin also discussed
preferential rules of origin for least-developed
countries (LDCs). Ministers took a fresh decision
on simplifying these rules at the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference.
The Committee on Rules of Origin held two formal meetings
in April and October 2015. The main work of the Committee
concerns negotiations to harmonize non-preferential rules
of origin (known as the Harmonization Work Programme).
These negotiations, mandated under the WTO Agreement,
were initiated in 1995 and are conducted in collaboration
with the Technical Committee on Rules of Origin at the
World Customs Organization (WCO).
Despite progress in elaborating speciﬁc rules of origin for
thousands of tariff lines, the negotiations came to a virtual
halt in 2007 due to divergences on a number of “core policy
issues” and have since lost momentum. Members hold
different views regarding whether there is a need to ﬁnalize
the Harmonization Work Programme. Given these differences,
the Chair of the Committee Christian Wegener, of Denmark,
said that it was difﬁcult to propose any technical work on the
draft harmonized rules of origin.
Pending the continuation of the programme, the Committee
agreed to initiate a transparency exercise to exchange
information about non-preferential rules of origin currently in
place. Some WTO members presented to the Committee
their current non-preferential rules of origin and shared their
experiences regarding the application of such rules.

Background on rules of origin
Rules of origin are the criteria used to determine the
country in which a product was made. They are used in
the implementation of many trade measures, including
trade statistics, the determination of customs duties,
labelling of country of origin, and the application of
anti-dumping measures. The main objective of the
Agreement on Rules of Origin is to harmonize the
rules that WTO members use to determine origin in
their non-preferential trade. This work is conducted
by the Committee on Rules of Origin and is referred
to as the Harmonization Work Programme.

The Committee also heard presentations by the WTO
Secretariat, the WCO, International Trade Centre (ITC),
the International Chamber of Commerce and the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
about the impact of rules of origin on international trade.
These presentations were part of an information exercise
agreed by the Committee to further members’ understanding
of the impact of non-preferential rules of origin in international
trade. According to ITC, businesses report that rules of origin
are one of the most common barriers to trade (22 per cent
of all barriers mentioned in ITC’s surveys were linked to rules
of origin). Some sectors were more affected than others
(e.g. clothing, textiles and non-electrical machinery).
The Committee held an informal session on preferential
rules of origin for least-developed countries (LDCS). At this
session, WTO members heard presentations by several LDC
representatives and learned more about how rules of origin
may hinder market access opportunities for LDCs. For each
agenda item, the LDCs recalled the “benchmarks” set in the
2013 Bali Ministerial Decision and provided examples of
existing rules which, according to them, did not meet these
benchmarks. The LDCs proposed speciﬁc reforms to enhance
their ability to make effective use of preferential market access
opportunities. The Committee heard presentations about new
rules introduced by Thailand and China and a presentation by
Japan about changes to its existing rules regarding clothing.
In addition, the Committee reviewed new developments as
mandated by the Bali Ministerial Decision, which had set out,
for the ﬁrst time, multilaterally agreed guidelines to make it
easier for LDC exports to qualify for preferential market access
Drawing on proposals put forward by LDCs, the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi took a further step towards
ensuring that preferential trade arrangements for LDCs have
simple and transparent rules of origin (see page 39).

Harmonizing non-preferential rules
The Committee reviewed the results of the transposition
exercise conducted by the WTO Secretariat. All draft
harmonized rules of origin have now been transposed
to the most recent version of the Harmonized System
(2012) (see page 55) and compiled in a single document.
WTO members agreed that comments to the draft transposed
rules should be sent to the Secretariat by 15 March 2016
and that the Committee should consider this item again at its
next meeting.
Regarding notiﬁcations, the Committee took note of new
notiﬁcations sent by WTO members. These notiﬁcations
indicated that 44 members had implemented some type of
non-preferential rules of origin while 51 members had not
implemented rules of origin for non-preferential purposes.
Information about non-preferential rules of origin was still
missing for 38 WTO members.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin

68

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

The Chair of the Committee on Import Licensing,
Carrie I.J. Wu (Chinese Taipei), consulted WTO
members on how to improve compliance with
notiﬁcation obligations amid concerns that import
licensing is being used to restrict imports. The
Committee reviewed 67 notiﬁcations submitted by
WTO members under the Agreement on Import
Licensing Procedures. However, some members
have not submitted any notiﬁcations. The
Committee also heard speciﬁc trade concerns about
import licensing rules and procedures applied by
some members.
The Committee on Import Licensing reviewed 15 notiﬁcations
from 12 WTO members regarding publications and/or
legislation on import licensing procedures, and 16 notiﬁcations
from 10 members relating to the institution of new import
licensing procedures or changes in these procedures.
It also reviewed 36 notiﬁcations from 35 members regarding
responses to a questionnaire on import licensing procedures.
Improving transparency through notiﬁcations is an important
objective of the Agreement, particularly given concerns
about the use of border measures, such as import licensing
requirements, to restrict imports. The Agreement stipulates that
import licensing should be simple, transparent and predictable,
and administered in a neutral and non-discriminatory manner.

submitted by members have been published on the WTO
website for easy reference.
The chair held consultations on how to improve members’
compliance rate for notiﬁcations, including through the holding
of a workshop. WTO members agreed to explore the idea of a
workshop to familiarize them with their notiﬁcation obligations.
The Committee also heard a number of speciﬁc trade
concerns regarding import licensing. Some members
reiterated concerns about India’s import regime on marble and
marble products and boric acid, and amendments in the import
conditions applicable to apples, Brazil’s import licensing
requirements on nitrocellulose (see page 54) and Indonesia’s
import regulations on cell phones, handheld computers
and tablets.
In addition, WTO members raised questions about a number
of other topics, including Angola’s non-automatic licensing
regime regulating the importation, distribution and sale of
certain ﬁsh products. They also raised questions about
Turkey’s surveillance licensing regime, its import authorization
on old and renovated goods and its import regime for nonfuel petroleum products. They also questioned Mexico’s
automatic licensing procedures on certain steel products,
Bangladesh’s import licensing regime, Viet Nam’s import
licensing requirements on distilled spirits, and Indonesia’s
import licensing regulation for the importation of carcasses/
processed meat products.
A panel was established to hear a complaint brought by New
Zealand and other WTO members against Indonesia for
certain measures imposed on imports of horticultural products,
animals and animal products.

WTO members’ compliance with notiﬁcation obligations
remains a challenge. As of October 2015, 14 WTO members
had not submitted any notiﬁcations under the Agreement.
In addition, 23 members had never fulﬁlled their obligation to
submit responses to the annual questionnaire on licensing
procedures. WTO trade monitoring reports (see page 92) have
identiﬁed import licensing as one of the main trade-restricting
measures introduced by governments.
Montenegro and Saint Vincent and Grenadines submitted
their ﬁrst notiﬁcations in 2015 under the Agreement. The WTO
Secretariat continued to provide technical assistance and
capacity building to members in need. All notiﬁcations

Background on import licensing
The Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures
establishes disciplines on WTO members’ import
licensing systems, with the principal objective of
ensuring that the procedures applied for granting
import licences do not in themselves restrict trade.
The Agreement says import licensing should be
simple, transparent and predictable, and administered
in a neutral and non-discriminatory way.

Import licensing
www.wto.org/importlicensing
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

69

Implementation
and monitoring

Import licensing

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Safeguards

Figure 13: Notifications of safeguard investigations by
year (for all WTO members)
6

2008

The Safeguards Committee reviewed WTO
members’ notiﬁcations of their safeguard rules
and actions. Notiﬁcations of new investigations
in 2015 declined, while notiﬁcations of ﬁnal
measures taken remained at the same level as
last year.

25
4

2010

20
11

2011

12
6

2012

Notiﬁcations of ﬁnal measures totalled 14, the same as the
previous year. Indonesia imposed the highest number of
ﬁnal measures, with three, followed by Egypt and the Kyrgyz
Republic with two.
At the Committee’s meetings, many WTO members expressed
concerns about the proliferation of safeguard measures.
They stressed that safeguards, unlike anti-dumping and
countervailing duties, target exports that are not violating any
WTO rules, and members imposing these measures should
therefore be particularly careful.
A safeguard investigation seeks to determine whether
increased imports of a product are causing, or are threatening
to cause, serious injury to a domestic industry. During an
investigation, importers, exporters and other interested parties
may present evidence, give their views and respond to the
presentations of other parties.

Rules of origin are the criteria used to determine the
country in which a product was made. They are used in
the implementation of many trade measures, including
trade statistics, the determination of customs duties,
labelling of country of origin, and the application of
anti-dumping measures. The main objective of the
Agreement on Rules of Origin is to harmonize the
rules that WTO members use to determine origin in
their non-preferential trade. This work is conducted
by the Committee on Rules of Origin and is referred
to as the Harmonization Work Programme.

10

2009

In 2015, notiﬁcations of new investigations declined to 17,
from 23 the year before (see Figure 13). The safeguard
investigations were initiated by 11 WTO members: Chile,
Egypt, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Morocco, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukraine, Viet Nam and, for the ﬁrst time, Zambia. The products
covered ranged from ceramic tiles and cars to polyethylene
terephthalate (PET), used for making beverage containers,
and alloy and non-alloy steel.

Background on rules of origin

10

24
8

2013

18

2014

14

2015

14

23
17

0

5
Final measures

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

15

20

25

30

Initiation

Trade-related
investment measures
The WTO’s Committee on Trade-Related
Investment Measures (TRIMs) discussed at its two
meetings seven new investment measures taken
by WTO members. It continued to debate eight
measures previously raised by members. In
addition, it reviewed compliance with members’
notiﬁcation obligations under the TRIMs
Agreement.
Five of the new investment measures raised by WTO members
concerned local content requirements, which stipulate that

Background on trade-related
investment measures
The Agreement on Trade-Related Investment
Measures (TRIMs) recognizes that certain investment
measures can restrict and distort trade. It states
that WTO members may not apply any measure that
discriminates against foreign products or that leads
to quantitative restrictions, both of which violate basic
WTO principles. A list of prohibited TRIMs, such as
local content requirements, is part of the Agreement.
The TRIMs Committee monitors the operation and
implementation of the Agreement and allows members
the opportunity to consult on any relevant matters.

Safeguards
www.wto.org/safeguards

70

10

Trade-related investment measures
www.wto.org/trims

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

A fourth measure, raised by the United States, concerned local
content requirements in the production of mobile devices in
Indonesia. Another two new measures, raised by the European
Union and the United States and by the European Union and
Japan respectively, concerned local content requirements for
purchases by Russian state-owned enterprises and Russian
support measures for its automotive industry.
Another new investment measure was raised by Japan
concerning assistance measures for producers of agricultural
machinery in Korea.
Discussions on measures previously raised at the Committee
included local content requirements in the Indian and
Indonesian telecommunications sectors and in the Indonesian,
Nigerian and US energy sectors. Other measures concerned
local content requirements in Russia’s agricultural equipment
sector, provisions of Indonesia’s Industry Law and Trade Law,
and minimum local product content requirements for the
Indonesian retail sector.
The Committee took note of three new notiﬁcations under the
TRIMs Agreement, which requires WTO members to notify the
Committee of all publications in which TRIMs may be found,
including those applied by regional and local governments and
authorities within their territory. Members who had not provided
notiﬁcations to date were urged to do so promptly.

Information
Technology Agreement
Kazakhstan joined the WTO’s Information
Technology Agreement (ITA) in 2015, bringing the
total number of members to 82. An expansion of
the ITA was agreed by over 50 WTO members at
the Tenth Ministerial Conference, eliminating
tariffs on 201 additional IT products valued at over
US$ 1.3 trillion per year (see page 47). The
Committee continued its work on non-tariff
measures (NTMs) affecting trade in IT products
and held a workshop on this topic. WTO members
agreed to work on the basis of a Swiss proposal
to tackle the issue of divergences in product
classiﬁcation.
Kazakhstan joined the ITA in 2015, bringing the total number
of participants to 82. The Agreement covers some 97 per cent
of world trade in information technology products, with almost
all of this trade now duty free. Because ITA concessions are
included in the participants’ WTO schedules of commitments,
the tariff elimination is implemented on a most-favoured
nation basis. This means that even WTO members that have
not joined the ITA can beneﬁt from the trade opportunities
generated by ITA tariff elimination.
During the year, the Committee of the Participants on the
Expansion of Trade in Information Technology Products
continued to review implementation of the ITA.

Expansion of the ITA
The expansion of the ITA, agreed in December at the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, opens up trade in an
additional 201 high-tech products, whose annual value is
estimated at US$ 1.3 trillion, accounting for nearly 10 per cent

Background on Information
Technology Agreement
The Information Technology Agreement (ITA)
was concluded in December 1996 in Singapore.
This plurilateral agreement requires participants to
eliminate duties on IT products on a most-favoured
nation (MFN) basis. The ITA covers a large number
of high-technology products, including computers,
telecommunication equipment, semiconductors,
software and scientiﬁc instruments, and their parts
and accessories. The Committee of the Participants
on the Expansion of Trade in Information
Technology Products oversees the Agreement.

Information Technology Agreement
www.wto.org/ita
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

71

Implementation
and monitoring

at least part of a good or service should be locally produced.
The ﬁrst measure, raised by the European Union, concerned
Turkey’s local content requirements in the electricity generation
sector. The second, raised by Japan and the United States,
concerned local content requirements on information and
communication technology (ICT) equipment used by the
banking sector in China. The third, raised by the European
Union, involved local content requirements in solar power
generation projects in India.

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

of world trade in goods. The new agreement is the ﬁrst major
tariff-cutting deal at the WTO since 1996 (see page 47).

Non-tariff measures (NTMs)
On 7 May 2015, the Committee held a workshop on NTMs
affecting trade in IT products. This provided an opportunity
for the private sector to share their experience with trade
policy-makers and to express their views on possible ways to
address NTMs and to improve market access. The main issues
raised at the workshop were transparency, standards for
recognition of test results, e-labelling and energy efﬁciency.
The lack of harmonization for standards, for both administrative
and technical regulations, creates many barriers to trade
by signiﬁcantly increasing the costs of compliance (e.g.
duplication of testing and certiﬁcation procedures) and by
delaying market entry. The industry is unanimous in saying that
for each area of certiﬁcation (for example, electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC), safety, telecom approvals, radio emission,
and energy efﬁciency), there should be one global standard,
one global test, one global certiﬁcate.
Consultations between the chair of the Committee, Mr. Andrew
Staines (United Kingdom), and WTO members are under way
to examine the recommendations of industry representatives
and a possible way forward. These recommendations
include establishing a centralized database of administrative
requirements (e.g. conformity assessment procedures)
and technical requirements (e.g. standards) per area of
certiﬁcation (e.g. EMC, safety, radio, environment) per product
and per country to solve the lack of transparency. Other
recommendations include adoption of e-labelling as a simple
solution to the problem of the proliferation of requirements.
Many countries have already endorsed e-labelling.

Product classification divergences
Classiﬁcation divergences on ITA products continued to be
an area of controversy. In 2013, the Committee agreed on the
HS 2007 classiﬁcation (see page 55) of 18 products, mainly
semiconductor manufacturing equipment, but WTO members
have continued discussions on the remaining 37 items listed in
“Attachment B” of the 1996 Ministerial Declaration, for which
there is no agreed tariff classiﬁcation.

97%
The Information Technology
Agreement covers 97 per
cent of world trade in IT
products, with almost all of
this trade now duty free.

Ten WTO members provided their comments on classiﬁcation
options outlined by the WTO Secretariat under a Swiss
proposal. The proposal, agreed in 2014, required the
Secretariat to circulate the list of 37 items – including
computers, network equipment, ﬂat panel display and
semiconductor manufacturing equipment – indicating
their possible classiﬁcation in HS 2007 so that members
can identify where their domestic classiﬁcation diverges.
The Committee will continue discussing the issue of
divergences in 2016, with a view to narrowing down
the differences among members.

State trading enterprises
The Working Party on State Trading Enterprises
(STEs) continued to review WTO members’
notiﬁcations of STEs. These are enterprises
granted exclusive rights or privileges that can
inﬂuence exports or imports. China made its ﬁrst
notiﬁcation. However, the number of notiﬁcations
remains low and the chair, Andrew Jory (Australia),
called for improvements to members’ compliance
with notiﬁcation obligations. Canada submitted a
new paper on agriculture-exporting STEs.

Background on state trading enterprises
State trading enterprises are deﬁned as governmental
or non-governmental enterprises, including marketing
boards, which have been granted exclusive or
special rights or privileges to deal with goods for
export and/or import. They are required to act in
a manner consistent with the WTO principle of
non-discriminatory treatment. The Working Party
on State Trading Enterprises reviews notiﬁcations
by WTO members of their state trading activities.

State trading enterprises
www.wto.org/statetrading

72

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

At its October meeting, the Working Party reviewed 45 new
and full notiﬁcations from 16 WTO members and 22 updating
notiﬁcations from four members. Notiﬁcations cover products
imported into or exported from members’ territories by STEs.
WTO members have extended indeﬁnitely a June 2012
agreement to submit new and full notiﬁcations every two years.
Compliance with notiﬁcation obligations remains poor.
Of 133 notifying members, only 44 submitted notiﬁcations
for the most recent period (2012-13). For the previous period
(2010-11), only 52 notiﬁcations were received from a total
of 130 notifying members. The chair of the Working Party
encouraged members to continue to work with their respective
capitals and the WTO Secretariat to improve their notiﬁcation
record. The Working Party reviewed notiﬁcations of Barbados,
Canada, India and New Zealand on the basis of written
questions from delegations.
Members may counter-notify when they have reason to believe
that another WTO member has not adequately notiﬁed its
STEs. Accordingly, at both its meetings, the Working Party
reviewed a counter-notiﬁcation submitted by the United States
regarding China’s STEs. At the October meeting, China
submitted its ﬁrst notiﬁcation since it joined the WTO in 2001.
Following a joint request by the European Union and the United
States, the Working Party discussed Russia’s notiﬁcation
obligations. Both the European Union and the United States
asked Russia to provide notiﬁcations of all its STEs, including
Gazprom. The European Union also asked Russia to provide
detailed information about the status and functioning of the
Russian United Grain Company.

Trade in civil aircraft
In 2015, the Trade in Civil Aircraft Committee
adopted a protocol to amend the Agreement on
Trade in Civil Aircraft. The protocol, which had
been under negotiation since 2008, brings product
coverage under the Agreement into line with the
2007 update of the Harmonized System (HS2007),
used for classifying goods for customs purposes
(see page 55).
The protocol, which amends the existing annex to the
Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft, was opened for
acceptance by parties to the Agreement.
The Agreement currently has 32 signatories, of which 20 are
member states of the European Union. It eliminates import
duties on civil aircraft-related products covered by its product
annex, such as engines, radar, ﬂight recorders and ground
ﬂight simulators. The Agreement also contains disciplines on
matters such as government-directed procurement of civil
aircraft and inducements to purchase.

Background on trade in civil aircraft
The Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft aims to
achieve maximum freedom of world trade in civil aircraft,
parts and related equipment by eliminating tariffs,
promoting fair and equal competitive opportunities for
civil aircraft manufacturers, and regulating government
support for civil aircraft development, production and
marketing. The Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft
provides signatories with an opportunity to consult on
any matters relating to the operation of the Agreement.

Trade in civil aircraft
www.wto.org/aircraft
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

73

Implementation
and monitoring

At the June meeting of the Working Party on State
Trading Enterprises, Canada submitted a paper on
agriculture-exporting STEs, in which it suggested that part
of the review process carried out by the Committee on
Agriculture would “enrich” the work of the Working Party.
It drew attention to what the Committee had discussed on
this issue. Switzerland, Colombia, the European Union, Chile
and New Zealand supported Canada’s proposal. Australia
made a presentation on its experience of fulﬁlling notiﬁcation
obligations in changing circumstances.

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade in services
The Council for Trade in Services focused on encouraging the use of the services waiver for
least-developed countries (LDCs), which aims to help LDCs play a more active role in global
services trade. By the end of the year, the Council had received 21 notifications from WTO
members granting preferential treatment to LDC services. The Tenth Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi extended the waiver for another four years, until 2030. The Council also discussed
electronic commerce and developments in services trade policy.

LDC services waiver
The services waiver for LDCs dominated the Council’s work
in 2015. The waiver, agreed in 2011, enables WTO members
to grant more favourable treatment to services and service
suppliers of LDCs. As no preferential treatment had been
notiﬁed under the waiver by the time of the Bali Ministerial
Conference in 2013, ministers took steps to encourage
members to make use of the waiver. One of them was directing
the Council for Trade in Services to convene a high-level
meeting at which members would indicate the preferential
treatment they intended to grant to LDC services and
service suppliers.
The high-level meeting was held on 5 February 2015.
Over 25 WTO members, both developed and developing,
indicated sectors and modes of supply where they were
considering providing preferential treatment. These addressed
most of the 74 services sectors in which LDCs had sought
preferential treatment, as speciﬁed in a collective request.
Many members also mentioned technical assistance initiatives
to improve the export capacity of LDC services. Members
agreed that they should endeavour to notify their preferential

Background on trade in services
The General Agreement on Trade in Services
(GATS) deﬁnes trade in services in terms of four
types of transactions: mode 1 – cross-border supply
(a supplier in one WTO member provides services
to a consumer in another member’s territory);
mode 2 – consumption abroad (a consumer from one
member consumes services in another member’s
territory); mode 3 – commercial presence (a foreign
company provides services through establishment in
another member’s territory); and mode 4 – presence
of natural persons (individuals move to supply
services in another member’s territory). The Council
for Trade in Services, which is open to all WTO
members, oversees the operation of the GATS.

treatment at the earliest possible date, and no later than
31 July 2015.
WTO members’ assessment of the pledges made at the
meeting was very positive overall. Following the meeting,
members started to submit the ﬁrst notiﬁcations of preferential
treatment under the waiver. By the end of 2015, the Council
had received a total of 21 notiﬁcations of preferential treatment
to LDC services and service suppliers on the part of
48 members (counting European Union member states
individually). They were submitted by Canada, Australia,
Norway, Korea, China, Hong Kong (China), Chinese Taipei,
Singapore, New Zealand, Switzerland, Japan, Mexico, Turkey,
the United States, India, Chile, Iceland, Brazil,
the European Union, Liechtenstein and South Africa.
At a meeting of the Council in November, LDCs provided a
detailed assessment of the notiﬁcations received until then.
They noted that the number of notiﬁcations received was
impressive, considering the scant progress made initially on
the issue, stating that the notiﬁcations were testament to WTO
members’ commitment to integrating LDCs into the multilateral
trading system. They also noted that many of the sectors
where they had sought preferential treatment were included
in the notiﬁcations and that all modes of service supply
were featured.
LDCs noted that more than half of their collective request
appeared to have been considered in the notiﬁcations,
although more needed to be done to address requests related
to non-market access preferential treatment. Some of the
preferences set out in the notiﬁcations went beyond WTO

21
The Services Council has
received 21 notiﬁcations
from WTO members granting
preferential treatment to LDC
services, as of end-2015.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services

74

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Concerns were also expressed about the limited number
of preferences covering “mode 4”, an issue of particular
importance to LDCs. Mode 4 consists of individuals moving
temporarily in another member’s territory to supply services.
Notifying members provided some initial explanations
and stated their readiness to discuss the queries of
LDCs bilaterally.
At the same meeting, the Council also approved preferential
treatment going beyond market access measures contained
in notiﬁcations submitted until then. As stipulated in the
ministerial waiver decision, while WTO members can
implement preferential treatment related to market access
measures upon notiﬁcation to the Council, preferential
treatment regarding any other measure is subject to the
Council’s approval.
At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, ministers
adopted a decision on the services waiver. In light of the
time gap between the adoption of the waiver in 2011 and
WTO members’ notiﬁcation of preferential treatment in 2015,
ministers decided to extend the existing waiver period by four
years until the end of 2030. They also instructed the Council
to encourage discussions among members on technical
assistance aimed at increasing the capacity of LDCs to
participate in services trade, and to initiate a review process
to monitor the operation of the notiﬁed preferences.

E-commerce
The Council continued to engage in discussions on electronic
commerce. WTO members considered a US suggestion to
address and share information on cross-border information
ﬂows, localization requirements, privacy protection and cloud
computing. Members seemed generally amenable to engaging
in such a discussion, provided that it implied no normative
or prescriptive content. The Council also addressed the
protection of personal information in relation to e-commerce
on the basis of a contribution by Chinese Taipei drawing on
its privacy protection framework.
WTO members accepted a proposal by China to formalize
the sharing of information on e-commerce by adding a regular
item to the agenda of the Council. Under that item, China and
Nigeria shared their respective experiences with the fast pace
of e-commerce growth in their countries and the impact on
small and medium-sized enterprises. Other delegations said
they would contribute to the discussion in the future. Given
ministers’ agreement at the Nairobi Ministerial Conference to
press on with the work programme on electronic commerce,
the issue will continue to occupy the Council in 2016.

Other Services Council issues
In 2015, the Council also debated recent developments in
services trade and regulation. WTO members participating in
the negotiations on a plurilateral Trade in Services Agreement
(TISA) kept the Council regularly informed on progress
in their negotiations. While non-TISA participants were
generally appreciative of the transparency, some remained
concerned about the initiative and in particular its impact on
multilateralism. TISA participants pointed out that TISA was
developed to be compatible with the General Agreement
on Trade in Services (GATS) and could help to facilitate
multilateral talks in the future.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

75

Implementation
and monitoring

members’ Doha Round services offers or the preferences
pledged at the high-level meeting in February, LDCs noted.
But they also sought clariﬁcations as some notiﬁcations did
not spell out precisely how the preferential treatment would
operate for LDCs.

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

At the meetings held in March, June and October, Russia made
a statement on certain measures related to the reform of the
Uniﬁed Gas Transportation System of Ukraine. In March and
June, Ukraine responded to the statement. A few other WTO
members expressed their interest in the issue.
In accordance with the GATS’ transparency provisions,
the Council received 33 notiﬁcations of new or revised
measures that could signiﬁcantly affect trade in sectors
where the notifying WTO members had commitments. It also
received two notiﬁcations concerning recognition measures.
Another 12 notiﬁcations dealt with new economic integration
agreements covering services trade.

Financial services
The Committee on Trade in Financial Services continued its
consideration of the issue of ﬁnancial inclusion, or greater
access to ﬁnancial services, including such questions as
mobile banking, on the basis of a note prepared by the WTO
Secretariat. The note addresses the issue from a trade policy
perspective, including the role that the GATS may play.
Several WTO members reviewed the situation of ﬁnancial
inclusion in their respective economies and highlighted the
most important initiatives and policies adopted to promote it.
The Committee agreed to continue this discussion, focusing
speciﬁcally on obstacles to ﬁnancial inclusion.
The Committee continued its consideration of regulatory
issues in ﬁnancial services. Following an invitation by the
Committee, representatives of the Financial Action Task
Force, the International Monetary Fund and the Islamic
Financial Services Board gave an overview of the most
recent international regulatory reforms and initiatives in
their respective areas of competence, and discussed
with WTO members the potential implications for trade
in ﬁnancial services.

Specific commitments
In 2015, the Committee on Speciﬁc Commitments
continued to consider the issue of “new services” based
on an informal note prepared by the WTO Secretariat.
This contains an illustrative list of services identiﬁed in previous
discussions as not being explicitly referred to in the GATS
classiﬁcation system.
The Secretariat note also provided background on the issue of
“new services” and suggested a number of general questions
for consideration. WTO members expressed divergent views
on issues such as whether “new services” really existed,
whether a deﬁnition of “new services” was needed, and the
implications of “new services” for existing commitments under
the GATS. There were substantive discussions on the nature
of cloud computing services. A number of members reiterated
that the discussion of “new services” should not affect the
scope of the existing commitments under the GATS.
In order to have a better understanding of classiﬁcation
issues and to facilitate future discussions, for its meeting on
14 October the Committee invited experts from the United
Nations Statistics Division to give a presentation on the
evolution of the central product classiﬁcation (CPC) and the
gaps between the version on which the GATS classiﬁcation is
based and the latest version.
The Committee generally supported a proposal to examine
economic needs tests (ENTs), which are referred to in Article
XVI:2 of the GATS as one form of quantitative limitation on
market access. An ENT is a test that conditions market access
upon the fulﬁlment of certain economic criteria. The major
problem with respect to ENTs is that most relevant entries
in WTO members’ schedules of commitments provide no or
minimal indications on the criteria applied in the test. In order
to have substantive discussions, a written proposal on issues
related to ENTs was requested.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services

76

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Trade-related aspects of
intellectual property rights
(TRIPS)

Promoting transparency
Transparency in national intellectual property systems helps
the TRIPS Council to monitor the operation of the TRIPS
Agreement, to promote understanding of members’ IP policies,
to reduce trade tensions and to build productive trading
relationships in knowledge products and technology.
The TRIPS Council has developed a unique body of
information about diverse approaches to protecting and
regulating IP, based on notiﬁcations of WTO members and
the Council’s review of national systems. It has also collected
extensive reporting from members on such matters as
technical cooperation and technology transfer incentives.

Background on TRIPS
Intellectual property rights have become a key part
of the debate over economic development and
broader public policy questions, such as innovation
and public health. The Agreement on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) is the
most comprehensive international treaty governing
the protection, administration and enforcement of
intellectual property rights. The Council for TRIPS,
a body open to all WTO members, administers the
TRIPS Agreement, provides a forum for debate
on policy issues and reviews the intellectual
property legislation of individual members.

In 2015, 17 members notiﬁed the Council of more than
47 pieces of legislation, which were mainly focused on
amendments and revisions of previously notiﬁed laws and
regulations to reﬂect evolving policy needs and technological,
social and commercial changes. So far, the TRIPS Council has
received more than 3,000 legal texts notiﬁed by 132 members
along with detailed checklists on enforcement mechanisms
applied within over 100 jurisdictions.
The Council continued to consider how to make the
notiﬁcation system more accessible to WTO members and
the public at large. In particular, the Council introduced
a new reporting tool for notiﬁcation, which includes
cross-references and brief descriptions of the notiﬁed laws or
regulations. Also, the Council completed its review of Russia’s
TRIPS implementing legislation and followed up its review
of Tajikistan.

Plants, animals, biodiversity and
traditional knowledge
The Council continued to address a cluster of issues dealing
with the patentability of plant and animal inventions and the
protection of plant varieties, the relationship between the
TRIPS Agreement and the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) and the protection of traditional knowledge and folklore.
Two issues were at the forefront: whether the TRIPS
Agreement should be amended to prohibit the patentability
of life forms; and whether – and, if so, how – TRIPS should
do more to promote the CBD objective of equitably sharing
the beneﬁts that arise from the use of genetic resources

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

77

Implementation
and monitoring

The TRIPS Council continued to promote transparency in WTO members’ intellectual property
(IP) systems and reviewed implementation of the TRIPS Agreement. It discussed access to
medicines, biodiversity, traditional knowledge, the patentability of life forms, biotechnology
and technical cooperation, among other topics. The Council extended until January 2033 a
waiver on least-developed countries (LDCs) having to apply TRIPS provisions on
pharmaceutical patents. It also recommended a parallel waiver of LDC obligations regarding
two other TRIPS provisions regarding pharmaceutical products. The Council discussed
aspects of innovation policy, including the role of IP in financing innovation.

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

and associated traditional knowledge. Some proposed
amending the TRIPS Agreement to oblige WTO members
to require patent applicants to disclose the source or the
country providing genetic resources and associated traditional
knowledge that form the basis for an invention.

TRIPS and public health
In 2015, ten more WTO members accepted the protocol
amending the TRIPS Agreement to formally incorporate
the so-called paragraph 6 system, which makes it easier
for developing countries to access affordable medicines.
The system allows generic versions of patented medicines
to be produced under a compulsory licence (one that is
granted without the patent holder’s consent) exclusively for
export to countries that cannot manufacture the needed
medicines themselves.
A further nine WTO members accepted the protocol in the
ﬁrst four months of 2016. By the end of April 2016, 61 per
cent of WTO members had submitted their instruments
of acceptance for the TRIPS protocol, which was agreed
in 2005. The amendment will come into force once it is
accepted by two-thirds of the WTO membership. The TRIPS
Agreement originally limited the issue of compulsory licences
to predominantly domestic market use but this effectively
excluded the use of compulsory licences by countries,
particularly poorer developing countries, with no domestic
manufacturing capacity.
Issues relating to TRIPS and public health were addressed in
many technical cooperation activities organized by the WTO
Secretariat, which coordinates capacity-building activities in
this area with the World Health Organization (WHO) and the
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).
Thirty-one government ofﬁcials from 24 developing countries
and two from developed countries took part in an October
workshop on trade and public health, the latest in a series.
It aimed to build national policy-makers’ capacity to analyse
policy choices in areas where trade, intellectual property and
public health all play a part. Topics included the interface
between health, trade and intellectual property, the economics
of innovation and access to health technologies, public health
determinants, pricing and procurement policies, competition
policy and rules, health services and the WTO’s Trade
Facilitation Agreement (see page 83).
The three organizations also held a ﬁfth trilateral technical
symposium in late October which reviewed access and

61
61 per cent of WTO
members have accepted
the TRIPS protocol on
access to medicine, as of
the end of April 2016.

innovation in medical technologies. The symposium provided
an opportunity to discuss practical ways in which the twin
challenges of innovation and access have been
addressed. It reviewed selected data on the complex
relationship between trade in medical technologies, patents,
innovation and access, including the role of TRIPS ﬂexibilities
and recent experience with the use of compulsory licences and
voluntary licence agreements. This was preceded by a
technical workshop on patentability criteria, giving participants
practical insights into how these criteria are applied in practice
at country level and how different deﬁnitions and
interpretations can impact on public health.

Technical cooperation and
capacity building
The Council was updated on technical cooperation in the
area of intellectual property by developed countries, other
intergovernmental organizations and the WTO Secretariat.
The Secretariat continued to focus on assisting WTO
members and observers to understand the rights and
obligations which ﬂow from the TRIPS Agreement and relevant
decisions of WTO bodies in order to enable them to meet their
developmental and other domestic policy objectives.
The WTO and WIPO jointly delivered two advanced technical
assistance courses for government ofﬁcials and university
teachers in March and June in Geneva. The aim was to
strengthen the capacity of developing-country participants to
monitor and participate in international intellectual property
developments and to make informed assessments of IP
policy issues. The course for government ofﬁcials drew
25 participants and the course for university teachers attracted
27. In recent years, the courses have trained about 260 IP
teachers and about 150 government ofﬁcials.
To mark the 20th anniversary of the WTO and the
TRIPS Agreement, the WTO Secretariat organized a
capacity-building symposium for TRIPS delegates that aimed
to deepen understanding of the Agreement’s negotiating
history and its relevance for current multilateral discussions
on trade-related aspects of intellectual property. Ofﬁcials who
participated in the TRIPS negotiations in the Uruguay Round
shared their experiences and discussed the practical impact
of the TRIPS Agreement since its entry into force. Insights
from this symposium were captured in a new publication
– The Making of the TRIPS Agreement – launched at the
Public Forum (see page 140) as a resource for policymakers
and negotiators.

2/3
The TRIPS protocol will enter
into force once two-thirds of
the WTO membership have
accepted it.
Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

78

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

Pharmaceutical patent exemption for LDCs
At the request of LDCs, the Council extended – until January
2033 – the period during which key provisions of the TRIPS
Agreement do not apply to pharmaceutical products in LDCs.
This means LDCs can choose whether or not to protect
pharmaceutical patents and clinical trial data before 2033.
The decision also keeps open the option for further extensions
beyond that date.
The latest extension, the second speciﬁcally applied to
pharmaceutical products for LDCs, is in line with directions
set by WTO ministers in the 2001 Doha Declaration on
the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health, which decided a
speciﬁc transition period should apply for LDCs in this area.
The transition was initially due to end in 2016.
A subsequent General Council decision, on the
recommendation of the TRIPS Council, also extended an
existing waiver for LDCs exempting them from granting patent
holders exclusive marketing rights for ﬁve years after they
obtain marketing approval or until a product patent is granted
or rejected in a member territory, whichever period is shorter.

These extension decisions follow the adoption of the new UN
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see page 119).
SDG3 on “Good Health and Well-being” afﬁrms the right of
developing countries to utilize the TRIPS Agreement ﬂexibilities
to ensure access to medicines for all.

Innovation
At its February meeting, the Council considered the topic of
women and innovation, with WTO members describing the
beneﬁts of gender equality for innovation and entrepreneurship
as part of its series on “Intellectual Property and Innovation”.
The Council looked broadly at various aspects of the issue,
including the relationship between entrepreneurship and
innovation in women-owned businesses and addressing
barriers to women’s participation in the economy and trade
in particular.
In June, the Council considered the role of IP in ﬁnancing
innovation, in particular how it attracted and guided investment
and capital towards innovation activity. A side-event on the
same topic was sponsored by the European Union, the United
States and Switzerland. The Council turned in October to
examining entrepreneurship and new technologies using
the experiences of small and medium-sized enterprises and
start-ups in the area of new and mobile technologies to
illustrate the role that IP played in bringing innovation to the
market. The focus lay in particular on start-ups commercializing
mobile technologies and applications (“apps”) and on the
potential beneﬁts for developing countries.

Tobacco control measures
In recent years, the Council has discussed tobacco plain
packaging legislation and its compatibility with the TRIPS
Agreement. The plain packaging measures adopted
by Australia are currently the subject of four disputes
initiated by Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Honduras and
Indonesia (see pages 107-8).

Implementation
and monitoring

The General Council also provided a new waiver for LDCs
regarding “mailbox” measures under which any WTO member
not applying patent protection for pharmaceutical products
still has to provide a means by which patent applications can
be ﬁled. These two waivers complement and buttress the
effect of the decision to extend the transition period in respect
of obligations concerning pharmaceutical patenting and the
protection of clinical data until 2033.

In 2015, the Council continued to discuss tobacco control
policies under the heading “Concerns with respect to
Measures Related to Plain Packaging of Tobacco Products
in the United Kingdom and Ireland”. The sponsor of the item,
Dominican Republic, and several other delegations reiterated
their view that such measures were incompatible with TRIPS
obligations on protecting trademarks and geographical
indications (see page 40) and urged members, in particular
the United Kingdom and Ireland, that were considering
introducing similar tobacco plain packaging measures,
not to adopt them until the WTO panels had ruled on their
compatibility with WTO obligations. Some other members
defended such policies as legitimate public health measures
that are consistent with WTO rules. In Australia’s view, it was
inappropriate to use the pending disputes to discourage other
members from implementing public health measures.

Other issues
No new proposals emerged from the reviews, mandated under
the TRIPS Agreement, of the Agreement as a whole (the
“71.1 review”). Regarding the review of the application of the
provisions on geographical indications (the “24.2 review”),
China and the European Union shared information on their
bilateral agreements with Costa Rica, Switzerland and a
number of other countries.
The Council’s work on the incentives for technology transfer
to LDCs and on “non-violation and situation complaints” is
discussed on pages 41.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade and environment
The Committee on Trade and Environment (CTE) discussed topics ranging from energy
efficiency and illegal logging to illegal fishing. The Committee was briefed by international
organizations on recent sustainable development initiatives, including the launch of the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in September. A ministerial declaration issued
at the end of the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi “recognized the role the WTO can
play in contributing towards achievement of the 2030 SDGs. The Committee was also updated
on negotiations for an Environmental Goods Agreement.

Energy efficiency
The Committee on Trade and Environment discussed several
initiatives to improve energy efﬁciency. The European Union
shared information on its energy efﬁciency policy framework.
This includes mandatory requirements that seek to eliminate
the least energy-efﬁcient products from the market (commonly
referred to as “eco-design”) and energy labelling, which offers
information on a product’s energy efﬁciency.
Singapore explained that its limited options to harness
renewable energy made energy efﬁciency a core element of its
strategy to reduce carbon emissions. Thailand emphasized that
energy efﬁciency was a key aspect of its energy policy, given
its high dependence on fossil fuels. Chile provided details on
education campaigns, labelling and other domestic measures
to improve energy efﬁciency.

for energy pricing and consumption measurement, internal
coordination challenges to implement speciﬁc programmes,
and international cooperation and capacity building.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) described the broad array of
measures used worldwide to improve energy efﬁciency and
their possible trade implications. Such measures include
minimum energy-performance standards for appliances and
buildings, labelling schemes and energy efﬁciency incentives.
The International Organization on Standardization (ISO)
provided information on ISO 50001 – a standard that seeks
to support organizations in using energy more efﬁciently – and
other energy efﬁciency standards.

Pakistan presented its national experience and explained how
solar and wind energy could help to ensure adequate access
to energy for its population and overcome its reliance on
fossil fuels. Chinese Taipei introduced its efforts to establish
an energy efﬁcient economy and create a “win-win-win”
solution for energy, the environment and the economy. Canada
explained how investments under its ecoENERGY efﬁciency
programme had helped Canadian consumers reduce energy
costs and greenhouse gas emissions.
WTO members expressed signiﬁcant interest in these
initiatives. Their discussions on these issues covered market
and structural barriers, labelling schemes, methodologies

Background on trade and environment
Sustainable development and protection and
preservation of the environment are fundamental
goals of the WTO. The Committee on Trade and
Environment is responsible for examining the
relationship between trade and the environment.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

80

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Several WTO members shared their experience in tackling illegal,
unreported and unregulated (IUU) ﬁshing. Ecuador provided
information on its action plan to combat IUU ﬁshing and efforts
to strengthen institutional capacity in this area. The United States
described the work of its Presidential Task Force on Combating
IUU Fishing and Seafood Fraud.
Mexico presented speciﬁc programmes to address IUU ﬁshing,
including vessel registration, satellite monitoring and on-board
observation, which involves placing independent observers on
vessels to monitor vessel positions and observe ﬁshing operations.
It noted that regional and multilateral cooperation was needed to
reinforce domestic efforts against IUU ﬁshing.
The European Union described its policy on IUU ﬁshing and
underlined the importance of creating a culture of compliance,
ensuring traceability throughout the supply chain and of promoting
international cooperation. Australia, the Republic of Korea,
New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines,
Sri Lanka and Chinese Taipei also shared their experiences in
combating IUU ﬁshing.
Responding to the presentations, several WTO members
underscored the negative environmental and socio-economic
impacts of IUU ﬁshing. They urged members to take the interests
of developing country exporters into consideration when designing
and implementing measures to combat IUU ﬁshing. It was
recalled that such measures should respect the principle of
non-discrimination and avoid the creation of unnecessary barriers
to trade. Some members underlined the links between efforts
to combat IUU ﬁshing and the ongoing negotiations to address
ﬁsheries subsidies in the WTO (see page 45).

Illegal logging
The Committee continued its discussion of the trade aspects
of illegal logging. Malaysia, a major producer and exporter
of tropical timber, presented its timber certiﬁcation scheme,
a voluntary national scheme that provides independent
assessment of forest management practices, as well
as cooperation efforts with other countries to combat
illegal logging.
Russia provided an overview of the 2013 Roundwood Act,
which seeks to establish a system for tracking the life cycle
of timber from harvest to processing or export. Commenting
on these experiences, several WTO members underlined the

44
Negotiations on an
Environmental Goods
Agreement are taking place
among 44 WTO members,
which account for a large
proportion of global trade
in environmental goods.

importance of cooperation and transparency in tackling illegal
logging and related trade activities.

Environmental goods
Australia, which chairs the negotiations on an Environmental
Goods Agreement (EGA), continued to update the Committee
on progress towards an EGA among 44 WTO members,
which together account for a large proportion of global trade in
environmental goods. In a statement issued in Nairobi just ahead
of the Tenth Ministerial Conference, the chair Andrew Robb said
that “considerable progress” had been made in the negotiations.
Director-General Roberto Azêvedo welcomed this progress.
He said: “I further welcome Minister Robb’s statement that
negotiators will capitalize on the momentum and re-engage early
in 2016 to continue to work towards a successful conclusion.
This agreement will be an important contribution of the
international trade community towards realizing the complementary
beneﬁts of trade and environmental policy.”
Negotiations are focused on building a list of possible products
to be covered by a future agreement. The chair recalled that EGA
participants are committed to transparency and that the EGA
remains open to other WTO members similarly committed to
liberalizing trade in environmental goods. He further noted that the
EGA will be implemented on a most-favoured nation (MFN) basis,
meaning all WTO members will beneﬁt once a critical mass of
participation has been reached. Negotiations on the EGA were
launched in July 2014.
The participants are considering products in several areas of
environmental protection and climate change mitigation, including
those that contribute to generating clean and renewable energy,
improving energy efﬁciency, controlling air pollution, managing
waste, and treating waste water.

Other issues
China described its Ecological Civilization Strategy, which
seeks to intensify the protection of the environment and
the conservation of resources, to promote low-carbon
development, to deepen reform, to encourage innovation
and to raise public awareness of environmental issues.
In addition, it presented its environmental labelling scheme,
which currently covers 97 categories of products, and outlined
the environmental provisions included in its recent free trade
agreements (FTAs), such as the China-Korea FTA. It noted that
its recent FTAs had a growing number of disciplines that aim to
address trade and environment issues.
Canada and a representative of the International Hydropower
Association presented a tool for assessing the sustainability
of hydropower plants and projects. Canada emphasized the
importance of preventing barriers to trade on hydropower
technologies and inputs. Several delegations shared some
of their own experiences with hydropower. Some delegations
underlined the need to include the costs of sustainability
assessments in the ﬁnancial viability of hydropower
projects and to take into consideration the special needs of
developing countries.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

81

Implementation
and monitoring

Fisheries

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The Executive Director of the United
Nations Environment Programme,
Mr Achim Steiner, and DG Azevêdo
at a 20 th anniversary event on trade
and environment on 28 April 2015.

On behalf of the Friends of Fossil-Fuel Subsidy Reform
(FFFSR) – an informal group of non-G20 countries aiming
to build political consensus on the importance of fossil fuel
subsidy reform – New Zealand and Norway highlighted the
beneﬁts of tackling inefﬁcient fossil fuel subsidies. In pursuit
of this goal, FFFSR had launched voluntary peer reviews of
the efﬁciency of measures related to fossil fuel subsidies.

Multilateral environmental agreements and
other international organizations
The Committee continued to serve as a platform to inform
WTO members about the latest developments in multilateral
environmental agreements (MEAs) and other international
organizations. In 2015, this included regular brieﬁngs by
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) on the state of play of the climate
change negotiations.
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) briefed delegations on the economic and
sustainability beneﬁts of promoting organic agriculture in
developing countries. The United Nations Environment
Programme (UNEP) highlighted the trade opportunities
and other beneﬁts of organic farming in South Africa.
The International Trade Centre (ITC) presented initiatives
for helping agricultural exporters in developing countries
to meet carbon standards and increase their resilience to
climate change.
The UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs
(UNDESA) briefed the Committee on Agenda 2030, launched
at the United Nations in September and which includes the
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see page 119),
and the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, which aims to provide
a global framework for ﬁnancing sustainable development.
Following requests by some WTO members, the WTO
Secretariat provided an overview of the main trade-related
elements of these two processes. The Secretariat also
introduced and updated its “Matrix on Trade-related Measures
Pursuant to Selected Multilateral Environmental Agreements”
and continued to present relevant environment-related case
law under the WTO.

20 th anniversary of the WTO
In April, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo and the Executive
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme
(UNEP), Achim Steiner, jointly opened a high-level event,
“20 Years of Building Pathways to Sustainable Development”,
held at the WTO. The one-day gathering, held as part of the
WTO’s 20th anniversary activities, looked back at how the
global trade and environment regimes have helped countries
to achieve sustainable development, and explored how WTO
case law on trade and environment has evolved over the past
two decades. Representatives from international organizations,
civil society and academia participated in this event.
In June, the DG and John Scanlon, Secretary-General of the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of
Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), launched a new publication,
CITES and the WTO: Enhancing Cooperation for Sustainable
Development. The joint publication shows how the relationship
between CITES and the WTO has become a leading
example of mutual supportiveness between global trade and
environmental regimes.

Nairobi Ministerial Declaration
At the close of the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi,
WTO members agreed on a ministerial declaration which
acknowledges that “international trade can play a role towards
achieving sustainable, robust and balanced growth for all.”
Furthermore, it recognized the role the WTO can play in
contributing towards achievement of the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals.

Technical assistance
In 2015, the Trade and Environment Division of the WTO
organized national workshops in Cuba and Qatar. In addition,
a workshop for the Arab and Middle East region was held in
Kuwait, in partnership with the International Monetary Fund’s
Centre for Economics and Finance. Trade and environment
training was delivered as part of the WTO’s Geneva-based
and regional trade policy courses, and through the
e-learning platform.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

82

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Trade facilitation
By end of April 2016, 77 WTO members had ratified the Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA),
which will come into effect once two-thirds of the WTO membership have done so. The
Preparatory Committee on Trade Facilitation received over 70 notifications from WTO members
indicating how they will implement the Agreement once it enters into force. A website was
launched for the Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility, which helps developing and
least-developed countries find the support they need to implement the TFA. The Global Alliance
for Trade Facilitation was launched at the Tenth Ministerial Conference.

he Trade Facilitation Agreement will simplify and speed
up global procedures for the movement of goods across
borders and could see average trade costs fall by over 14 per
cent. The Agreement was approved at the 2013 Bali Ministerial
Conference and is one of the biggest reforms of the WTO
since it was established in 1995. Implementation of the TFA
has the potential to increase global merchandise exports by up
to USD 1 trillion per year.
By the end of April 2016, the Preparatory Committee on
Trade Facilitation had received 83 category “A” commitment
notiﬁcations, indicating what the WTO member designates
for immediate implementation upon entry into force of the
Agreement (or, in the case of a least-developed country, within
one year of entry into force).
At meetings of the Preparatory Committee, WTO members
were updated on the state of ratiﬁcation processes and
briefed on technical assistance and capacity-building
activities, both by donor members and the WTO Secretariat.
WTO members discussed a range of topics, including their
ratiﬁcation procedures, the establishment of national trade
facilitation committees and the implementation of other
measures under the TFA.

Background on trade facilitation
Negotiations on the Trade Facilitation Agreement
were successfully concluded in December 2013
at the WTO’s Ninth Ministerial Conference.
The Agreement will enter into force once two-thirds
of members have ratiﬁed it. The Agreement aims
to expedite the movement, release and clearance
of goods across borders. It establishes measures
for effective cooperation between customs
and other authorities on trade facilitation and
customs compliance issues. The Agreement also
contains provisions for technical assistance and
capacity building. A Preparatory Committee on
Trade Facilitation oversees the Agreement.

For the ﬁrst time in WTO history, the requirement to implement
an agreement is directly linked to the capacity of a country
to do so. The Agreement states that assistance and support
should be provided to help members achieve that capacity.
To beneﬁt from this, developing and least-developed countries
must notify their commitments and needs to the WTO.

Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility
A website was launched for the Trade Facilitation Agreement
Facility, which helps developing and least-developed countries
ﬁnd the support they need to implement the TFA.
The website (www.TFAFacility.org) provides information
on the TFA, case studies, training materials and other
implementation-related resources. It also provides
information and contact points for donors and regional/
international organizations.
The Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility (TFAF) was launched
in 2014 to provide guidance to developing and least-developed
countries on the implementation of the TFA. It provides an
information-sharing platform to provide resources, help identify
possible donors, and undertake donor and recipient
match-making activities. In the future it will also provide project
preparation and project implementation grants in cases where
efforts to attract funding from other sources have failed.
In 2015, the WTO Secretariat conducted workshops for
parliamentarians to support their efforts to ratify the TFA.
It also organized national workshops to help WTO members
assess their capacity to implement the Agreement and to
prepare notiﬁcations required to beneﬁt from implementation
ﬂexibilities. It helped members that requested assistance to
ﬁnd donors, conducted meetings with partner organizations/
donors to enhance coordination of implementation support and
participated in many other activities.
The TFAF complements efforts by regional and multilateral
agencies, bilateral donors and other stakeholders that provide

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

83

Implementation
and monitoring

T

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

The Global Alliance
for Trade Facilitation
was launched at the
WTO’s Tenth Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi.

technical assistance and capacity-building support for trade
facilitation. It is funded by WTO members on a voluntary basis.
While funding is an important element of the Facility, its core
purpose is to help WTO members access the support they
need through existing projects offered by bilateral donors as
well as by international and regional organizations and the
private sector.

Global Alliance for Trade Facilitation
An event on trade facilitation at the Tenth Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi saw the launch of the Global Alliance
for Trade Facilitation. This is a new public-private platform
that seeks to use private sector expertise and resources to
support trade facilitation reforms. The Alliance was created by
the Center for International Private Enterprise, the International
Chamber of Commerce and the World Economic Forum,
with support from the governments of the United States,
the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany.

At the event, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo welcomed
the pledges made by governments and private sector entities
to help developing and least-developed countries implement
the TFA, declaring efforts to provide support had “got off to
a good start”.
“There is signiﬁcant support and funding available from a
range of partners to help with trade facilitation measures,
and speciﬁcally with the implementation of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement,” the Director-General said. “This is
very positive, and we must keep this momentum … the more
extensive and faster the implementation of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement, the greater the beneﬁts will be.”

77
77 WTO members
have ratiﬁed the Trade
Facilitation Agreement,
as of end-April 2016.

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation

84

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Regional trade agreements
In 2015, the WTO received 16 new notifications about regional trade agreements (RTAs), down
from 22 in 2014. The notifications involved eight new RTAs. Half of the RTAs were between
developed and developing partners, maintaining a recent trend. The Asia Pacific region made
the highest number of notifications – six RTAs – while the Americas made notifications about
three RTAs. At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, ministers called for a discussion of
the systemic implications of RTAs for the multilateral trading system.

Of the eight individual RTAs notiﬁed to the WTO in 2015
(counting goods and services components as one),
ﬁve included both goods and services provisions while three
included goods provisions only. The trend towards agreements
between developing and developed trading partners was
maintained. Members from the Asia Paciﬁc region were
involved in six RTAs, and the rest involved members in the
Americas region (three agreements) and Europe, African
and Middle East regions (one agreement each). Four of the
agreements covered members from two different regions and
four covered members from one region.
The notiﬁcations took to 621 RTAs the number received by
the WTO as of 31 December 2015, of which 415 were in
force (see Figure 14). RTAs include free trade agreements and
customs unions. Under WTO rules, the goods and services
aspects of RTAs, as well as accessions to existing RTAs,
have to be notiﬁed separately so they are counted separately.
However, putting the three together, the 621 notiﬁcations
involved 453 individual RTAs, of which 266 were in force.

Background on regional trade agreements
The Committee on Regional Trade Agreements
(CRTA) monitors all regional trade agreements
(RTAs) notiﬁed to the WTO, except those notiﬁed
under special provisions for agreements between
developing countries (the Enabling Clause), which
are considered by the Committee on Trade and
Development. The CRTA examines RTAs individually
and considers their systemic implications for the
multilateral trading system. All WTO members
except Mongolia are members of one or more (some
belonging to as many as 30). In addition, Mongolia
has recently signed an agreement with Japan and
has joined the Asia-Paciﬁc Trade Agreement,
both of which should enter into force shortly.

621 regional trade
agreements have been notiﬁed
to the WTO since 1995,
of which 415 are in force.

Increasing complexity
The newer RTAs broaden and, in many cases, deepen
coverage, compared with the older ones. Thus, while some
agreements are limited to reducing barriers to trade in goods,
most are becoming increasingly more comprehensive,
with provisions on market opening in services and in other
areas, such as investment, competition policy, trade facilitation,
government procurement, intellectual property, electronic
commerce and, in some cases, labour and the environment.
Most agreements are bilateral, giving rise to an increasingly
complex regime of different trade regulations. Critics
argue that these overlapping regional trade regimes make
international trade more complex and undermine WTO
non-discrimination principles. However, proponents of RTAs
say they can lay the groundwork for future multilateral trade
rules. They also let members wishing to move faster than
others in opening their markets to do so within WTO rules.

Enlargement
Although RTAs are by nature discriminatory, discrimination
against non-parties can be reduced if the agreements
are open and parties allow accession by third parties to
existing agreements.
Such enlargement and consolidation of existing agreements is
being proposed by new negotiations, such as the Trans-Paciﬁc
Partnership Agreement (TPP) among 12 parties, most of which
already have bilateral RTAs with each other. Another example
is the Regional Closer Economic Partnership Agreement

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

85

Implementation
and monitoring

621

Notifications

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
Figure 14: All RTAs notified to the GATT/WTO (1949 to 2015) by year of entry into force
700

105
100
621

95

600

90
85
80

500

75
70

Number per year

400

60
55
50
45

266

300

40
35

Cumulative number

415

65

200

30
25
20

100

15
10
5

0
52
19
54
19
56
19
58
19
60
19
62
19
64
19
66
19
68
19
70
19
72
19
74
19
76
19
78
19
80
19
82
19
84
19
86
19
88
19
90
19
92
19
94
19
96
19
98
20
00
20
02
20
04
20
06
20
08
20
10
20
12
20
1
20 4
15

19

48
19

19

50

0

Notifications of RTAs in force
Notifications of inactive RTAs

Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force and inactive RTAs
Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force
Cumulative number of physical RTAs in force

Note: Notiﬁcations of RTAs: goods, services and accessions to an RTA are counted separately. Physical RTAs: goods, services and accessions to an RTA are
counted together.
Source: WTO Secretariat.

between the Association of South East Asian Nations
(ASEAN) and six other regional partners. Negotiations on TPP
were completed on 5 October 2015 and the agreement was
signed on 4 February 2016.
Other negotiations include the Paciﬁc Alliance, a Latin
American grouping that also involves countries that already
have bilateral RTAs with each other, and the Tripartite
Agreement, which involves 26 African partners at present.
It remains to be seen if the eventual agreements are able to
harmonize some of the rules in existing RTAs between the
individual parties. Existing bilateral agreements between the
TPP parties will, however, remain in force (Chile for instance
already has bilateral agreements with all TPP parties).
Research by the WTO Secretariat based on RTAs notiﬁed
since 2000 shows that around 60 per cent of these RTAs
contain commitments in both goods and services and that
over half contain rules on investment. Other issues, such as
provisions on government procurement, competition, sanitary
and phytosanitary (SPS) measures, technical barriers to trade,
trade defence measures and intellectual property rights,
are also found in over half of the RTAs notiﬁed. Some RTAs
also include other issues, such as environmental and labour
standards and electronic commerce, which are not covered
by the WTO rules.

Nairobi Declaration
In the Nairobi Ministerial Declaration of December 2015,
ministers reafﬁrmed the need to ensure that RTAs remain
complementary to, not a substitute for, the multilateral trading
system. They instructed the Committee on Regional Trade
Agreements (CRTA) to discuss the systemic implications of
RTAs for the multilateral trading system and their relationship
with WTO rules.

Monitoring RTAs
All RTAs, regardless of whether they are notiﬁed under Article
XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
1994, the Enabling Clause between developing countries
(for trade in goods), or the General Agreement on Trade in
Services (GATS) Article V (for trade in services), are subject to
the provisions and procedures of the transparency mechanism
for regional trade agreements. The mechanism, in force
provisionally since December 2006, provides speciﬁc guidelines
on when a new RTA should be notiﬁed to the WTO Secretariat
and the related information and data to be provided. It also
requires the Secretariat to prepare a factual presentation on
each RTA, and for each RTA to be reviewed by WTO members.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

86

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Notiﬁed agreements already in force are considered by the CRTA
or by the CTD, normally within a year of the date of notiﬁcation.
In 2015, the CRTA held four meetings and considered 19
notiﬁcations of RTAs, counting goods, services and accessions
separately, compared with 42 in 2014 and 23 in 2013.
The transparency mechanism also requires the WTO
Secretariat to prepare “factual abstracts” on RTAs examined
by the CRTA prior to their entry into force. By the end of 2015,
72 factual abstracts of agreements currently in force had been
prepared in consultation with the relevant RTA parties and
posted in the RTA database.
In addition, one “early announcement” was received from
WTO members in 2015, for a newly signed RTA not yet in
force. As of December 2015, the WTO had received 98 “early
announcements”, 35 involving RTAs that had been signed but
were not yet in force and 63 involving RTAs under negotiation.
Sixty-one of these early announcements have subsequently
been notiﬁed following entry into force of the agreements.

Table 2: Regional trade agreements
considered in 2015
European Union – Colombia and Peru (goods and services)

Not all agreements that are in force have been notiﬁed and
efforts are underway to improve the notiﬁcation record. A list of
agreements that have been veriﬁed by the Secretariat as being
in force and not notiﬁed, through consultation with at least one
of the parties to the RTA, is circulated before each meeting
of the CRTA. The last list, circulated on 10 November 2015,
contained 75 non-notiﬁed agreements.
The CRTA also discussed the provision of end-ofimplementation reports. Most RTAs are implemented
over a transition period and the transparency mechanism
requires RTA parties to submit a short written report on the
realization of the liberalization commitments as originally
notiﬁed. One such report was submitted in 2015 (Ukraine–
Azerbaijan). The reports are important for understanding
whether RTAs accomplish what they set out to do. The Chair
of the Committee, Ambassador Amr Ramadan (Egypt), noted
that implementation reports had been due for 123 RTAs as of
7 January 2015 and yet only one was received during the year.
For the transparency mechanism to be adopted on a
permanent basis, WTO members need to review, and if
necessary, modify it as part of the overall results of the Doha
Round. WTO members are also required to review the legal
relationship between the mechanism and relevant WTO
provisions on RTAs. In December 2010, members decided to
commence the review. In the Nairobi Ministerial Declaration
in December 2015, ministers agreed to work towards
the transformation of the transparency mechanism into a
permanent mechanism (see page 45).

RTA database
All the information on RTAs notiﬁed to the WTO is contained in
a publicly accessible RTA database, which can be consulted at
http://rtais.wto.org. The database includes links to the ofﬁcial
texts and annexes as well as information on the examination
or consideration process in the WTO. For those RTAs that
have already been the subject of a factual presentation,
the database also contains the relevant trade and tariff data.
For information on preferential trade arrangements
(PTAs), see page 118.

United States – Bahrain (goods and services)
European Union – Georgia (goods and services)
Switzerland – China (goods and services)
United States – Colombia (goods and services)
Singapore – the Separate Customs Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and
Matsu (goods and services)
European Union – Republic of Moldova (goods and services)
ASEAN – China (services)
Hong Kong, China – Chile (goods and services)
Mexico – Central America (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras
and Nicaragua) (goods and services)
Note: The table refers to ten individual agreements, nine of which covered both
goods and services and one only services.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

87

Implementation
and monitoring

Agreements notiﬁed under Article XXIV of the GATT 1994
and Article V of the GATS are considered by the Committee
on Regional Trade Agreements (CRTA) (see Table 2)
while agreements notiﬁed under the Enabling Clause are
considered by a dedicated session of the Committee on
Trade and Development (CTD) using the Secretariat’s
factual presentation as the basis for consideration.
WTO members are required to inform the WTO Secretariat
of any subsequent changes to a notiﬁed agreement and to
provide a report once an agreement is fully implemented.
In the interests of transparency, they are also encouraged to
inform the Secretariat of any agreements being negotiated
or those that have been signed but are not yet in force
(“early announcements”).

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade Policy Reviews
The Trade Policy Review Body (TPRB) reviewed the trade policies and practices of 24 WTO
members in 20 meetings in 2015. By the end of 2015, the TPRB had carried out 429 reviews
involving 151 of the 162 WTO members.

Trade Policy Reviews
Of the 24 WTO members reviewed in 2015, two of them,
Cabo Verde and the Republic of Moldova, went through the
process for the ﬁrst time. The other members reviewed in
2015 were Barbados, Brunei Darussalam, Japan, Pakistan,
Australia, India, Canada, Chile, New Zealand, European Union,
Madagascar, Dominican Republic, Guyana, Jordan, Thailand
and Haiti. In addition, Angola, Botswana, Lesotho, Namibia,
South Africa and Swaziland were reviewed as a group under the
Southern African Customs Union. The dates of the reviews and
the members covered are shown on the map on pages 90-1.
Printed versions of each trade policy review are available
as WTO publications. These include the report by the
WTO Secretariat, the report by the member under review,
the concluding remarks by the Chair of the TPRB and a key
trade facts section.
So far, the United States, Japan and the European Union
have been reviewed the most – 12 times. This is followed
by Canada, ten times; Hong Kong (China), Australia,
and Thailand, seven times; the Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
Norway, Singapore, Indonesia, Switzerland, Brazil, and India,
six times; and China, Mexico, Turkey, Chile, New Zealand
and South Africa, ﬁve times Twenty-ﬁve members have been
reviewed four times and 36 members three times.

Background on Trade Policy Reviews
The Trade Policy Review Mechanism aims at
encouraging all WTO members to adhere to WTO
rules. Through its regular Trade Policy Reviews,
the mechanism enables WTO members to examine
collectively the trade policies and practices of
individual members in all trade-related areas. The four
largest trading entities (currently the European Union,
the United State, China and Japan) are reviewed every
two years, and the next 16 largest every four years.
The other members are reviewed every six years,
with a longer cycle for least-developed countries.
Reviews are not intended to serve as a basis for the
enforcement of obligations, for dispute settlement
procedures, or to impose new policy commitments.

Implementation of the Fifth Appraisal of
the TPRM
WTO members continued to implement the recommendations
of the ﬁfth appraisal of the Trade Policy Review Mechanism
(TPRM), carried out in 2013. One of the recommendations was
the need to make reviews more interactive and fruitful.
For their TPR meetings in 2015, nine members (up from four in
2014) chose to use the alternative timeline for the submission
of written questions and replies, one of the outcomes of
the appraisal. This requires the submission of questions by
other members four weeks in advance of the meetings and
of written responses one week in advance. Digital audio ﬁles
(podcasting) were used in all TPR meetings in 2015, except
the one on Thailand. The audio ﬁles are accessible to members
but not to the public. The seven-minute rule for members’
interventions continued to work satisfactorily.

TPR follow-up workshops
In 2015, a regional follow-up workshop was organized for
the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (Antigua
and Barbuda, Dominica, Grenada, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines).
National follow-up workshops were organized for Myanmar,
the Dominican Republic and Pakistan. One envisaged for
Madagascar was postponed to 2016 at the country’s request.
The follow-up workshops allowed discussion and further
dissemination of the results of the reviews of the nine
WTO members concerned. The workshops can also help
to convince national stakeholders of the need to address
the concerns expressed by other members during reviews.
The workshops also provide the opportunity to identify priority
areas for reforms requiring foreign assistance.
Myanmar’s experience with the follow-up workshop
illustrated the additional beneﬁts of the TPRM process for
least-developed countries (LDCs), in particular. Myanmar
was able to synchronize its priority areas for reforms with the
Enhanced Integrated Framework (see page 128) and donors’
programmes. Several donors pledged to provide assistance in
some of the areas speciﬁed by Myanmar. The demand for TPR
follow-up workshops rose from two in 2014 to four in 2015.

Trade Policy Reviews
www.wto.org/tpr

88

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Trade Policy Review programme
for 2016
For 2016, 24 TPR meetings are scheduled for 24 members:
Georgia, Morocco, Fiji, Turkey, Maldives, Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, Ukraine, Malawi, Honduras, Albania, United Arab

Emirates, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Zambia, China,
Tunisia, Singapore, El Salvador, Russia, Republic of Korea,
Sierra Leone (review postponed from 2015), Sri Lanka,
Guatemala, Solomon Islands and the United States. Ukraine
and Russia are to be reviewed for the ﬁrst time.

Implementation
and monitoring

24
24 trade policy reviews of WTO
members were undertaken in 2015,
the highest number for a single year.

Trade Policy Reviews
www.wto.org/tpr
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

89

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade Policy Reviews in 2015
The WTO conducted 20 Trade Policy Reviews in 2015 to examine the trade policies
and practices of 24 WTO members. The dates of the reviews and the WTO members
covered are shown on the map. Further information, including the Chair’s concluding
remarks for each review, can be found on the WTO website at www.wto.org/tpr

Canada

Dominican
Republic

European Union

15 and 17 June 2015

22 and 24 July 2015

6 and 8 July 2015

Cabo Verde

Haiti

6 and 8 October 2015

2 and 4 December 2015

Barbados

Guyana

27 and 29 January 2015

15 and 17 September 2015

Angola
22 and 24 September 2015

Chile

Southern African Customs Union:
Namibia, Botswana, Swaziland,
South Africa and Lesotho

23 and 25 June 2015

4 and 6 November 2015

Trade Policy Reviews in 2015
www.wto.org/tpr

90

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

Republic of
Moldova

Jordan

Pakistan

Thailand

Japan

17 and 19 November 2015

24 and 26 March 2015

24 and 26 November 2015

9 and 11 March 2015

Implementation
and monitoring

19 and 21 October 2015

Brunei
Darussalam
10 and 12 February 2015

Australia
21 and 23 April 2015

Madagascar

India

New Zealand

14 and 16 July 2015

2 and 4 June 2015

29 June and 1 July 2015

Trade Policy Reviews in 2015
www.wto.org/tpr
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

91

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade monitoring reports
Trade monitoring reports showed that WTO members continued to introduce trade-restrictive
measures in 2015 at the same pace as the year before. Given the continuing uncertainties in
the global economy, the reports stressed the need for members to show restraint in imposing
new trade restrictions and to eliminate more of the existing measures in order to reduce the
accumulated stockpile of restrictions. The reports also call for more transparency in the area
of non-tariff measures.

T

he WTO Secretariat prepared four reports on global trade
policy developments during 2015 amid continuing global
economic uncertainty and sluggish trade growth. Two of the
Secretariat reports, covering trade and investment measures
taken by G20 economies, were prepared jointly with the
secretariats of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) and the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The other two reports
covered trade measures taken by WTO members and
observers and were discussed at meetings of the Trade Policy
Review Body.

Trade monitoring summary for 2015
Against the backdrop of global economic uncertainty with
modest and unevenly distributed economic and trade growth
across regions, the use of trade-restricting measures by
WTO members were a cause for concern. Although the
pace of introduction of new trade-restrictive measures from
mid-October 2014 to mid-October 2015 remained stable
compared with the previous monitoring period, between
mid-November 2013 and mid-October 2014, the overall
stockpile of trade restrictions introduced by members since
2008 continued to grow.

WTO members applied 178 new trade-restrictive measures
during the 12-month period compared with 168 in the previous
reporting period. The average number of restrictions taken
per month remained stable at 15 and remained below the
monthly average of trade-facilitating measures (see Figures 15
and 16). The 178 new measures accounted for 1.2 per cent,
or US$ 228.3 billion, of world merchandise imports during the
review period.
Trade remedy measures (anti-dumping actions, countervailing
duties and safeguard measures) made up almost 43 per
cent of all trade-related measures in the review period,
down from 49 per cent in the previous annual report. Out of
the 297 trade remedy measures recorded, 241, or around
81 per cent, were anti-dumping actions. The number of
trade remedy actions was down compared with the previous
period. More initiations of investigations were recorded than
terminations of measures.
Figure 15: Trade-restrictive measures, excluding trade
remedies (average per month)
(Average per month)
2009

13

2010

14

2011

22

2012

14

2013

15

2014

Background on trade monitoring reports
In early 2009, the WTO began regular monitoring of
global trade developments, covering all trade-related
measures implemented by WTO members and
observers. Initially launched in the context of the
global ﬁnancial and economic crisis, the trade
monitoring exercise has become a regular function in
the WTO that further strengthens the transparency
aims of the Trade Policy Review Mechanism by
providing comprehensive information on recent
trade policy changes. The trade monitoring is
overseen by the Trade Policy Review Body.

14

Mid-Nov. '13 to mid-Oct. '14

15

Mid-Oct. '14 to mid-Oct '15

15

0

5

10

15

20

Note: values are rounded

The number of trade-facilitating measures signiﬁcantly
increased from 177 in the previous annual reporting period
to 222 in the latest one. These trade-liberalizing measures
accounted for 0.9 per cent, or US$ 170.3 billion, of world
merchandise imports. As an average per month, there were 19
in the latest period, up from 16 the year before. It was the

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

92

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

25

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

Figure 17: Stockpile of trade-restrictive measures

second-highest monthly average of such measures recorded
since the beginning of the monitoring exercise in October
2008 (see Figure 16).

Mid-October 2010

15.0%
82

Figure 16: Trade-facilitating measures, excluding trade
remedies (average per month)
(Average per month)
2009

11

2010

17

2011

23

2012

19

2013

546

14

2014

16

Mid-Nov. '13 to mid-Oct. '14

16

Mid-Oct. '14 to mid-Oct '15

19

5

10

15

20

25

Note: values are rounded

The relatively positive development in the area of tradeliberalizing measures should not distract, however, from the
concerns about the accumulation of trade restrictions.
Although WTO members continue to show some restraint in
taking new trade-restrictive measures, the rate of removal of
previous restrictions remains insufﬁcient to seriously dent the
stockpile, which continues to grow.

85.0%
464
Stockpile of restrictive measures
Effectively eliminated measures

Mid-October 2015

Implementation
and monitoring

0

25.1%
642

Of the 2,557 trade-restrictive measures, including trade
remedies, introduced since October 2008, only 642 (25.1 per
cent of the total) have been removed. The total number of
restrictive measures still in place stood at 1,915 at the end of
2015 (see Figure 17).
The reports urged WTO members to take decisive action to
reduce the stock of trade restrictions by showing restraint in
the imposition of new measures and by effectively eliminating
existing ones.

2,557

74.9%
1,915

2,557
546
2010

2015

2,557
The stockpile of
trade-restrictive
measures introduced
by WTO members
since October
2008 has risen to
2,557 according
to the latest WTO
monitoring report.

Adequate information on behind-the-border measures,
including regulatory measures and subsidies, is still lacking.
Various types of non-tariff measures, such as technical or
health regulations and product standards, have increasingly
been the subject of debate in WTO bodies such as the
Council for Trade in Goods and the General Council. With a
view to increasing transparency, the 2015 monitoring reports
contain a section providing a brief overview of trade concerns
raised by WTO members in formal meetings of various WTO
bodies during the reporting period.
Some consider that these types of measures have become
more prominent in recent years, compared with conventional
border measures, and that the need to increase the quality of
the information available is therefore paramount. To deliver on

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

93

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

this and enhance understanding of the operation and effects
of non-tariff measures on trade, the reports encouraged WTO
members to provide greater transparency in this area.

The core of this information stems from formal notiﬁcations by
WTO members, formal publication of new legislation and other
public sources, including media reports.

The WTO trade monitoring exercise contains a unique
veriﬁcation process, which provides WTO members with the
opportunity to update and correct information included in the
monitoring reports and subsequently submitted to the Trade
Policy Review Body. The ability of these reports to provide
information on overall trends in trade policy measures depends
on the participation and cooperation of all members. Although
the increase in the number of members participating in the
preparation of reports was encouraging, a large number still
do not take part.

However, the most important element in collecting trade
policy information for the reports is the close and continuous
consultation between the WTO Secretariat and WTO
members which seek to gather complete, up-to-date and
accurate information on their trade-related measures and
to verify the relevant information collected from other public
sources. In preparation for each report, the Director-General
writes to all WTO members and observers inviting them to
provide the WTO Secretariat with information on recent
trade-related measures as well as general economic
support measures.

The monitoring reports included several other important
trade-related developments that took place during 2014-15,
such as the adoption of the Trade Facilitation Agreement,
the expansion of the Information Technology Agreement,
the Global Review of Aid for Trade and new initiatives in the
area of regional trade agreements. The reports highlighted the
growth in the number of regional trade agreements and their
changing scope. This underlined the need for continuing work
by WTO members to understand the systemic implications
of regionalism and to ensure that regional trade agreements
are consistent with, and supportive of, the multilateral
trading system.

WTO trade monitoring – A unique process
The purpose of the WTO trade monitoring reports is to
enhance the transparency of trade policy developments and
to provide WTO members and observers with an up-to-date
picture of trends in the implementation of trade-restricting as
well as trade-liberalizing measures, in particular in times of
economic crisis when protectionist pressures tend to surge.
Preparing the trade monitoring reports is an on-going
activity, which relies on continuous dialogue and exchange
of information across divisions within the WTO Secretariat.

The WTO Secretariat collates all recorded country-speciﬁc
information on trade measures and re-submits this information
to each WTO member for veriﬁcation. This veriﬁcation
process is a unique feature of the WTO’s monitoring efforts
and represents a quality control mechanism, allowing
members to check the accuracy of the information before it
is made public. The WTO-wide trade monitoring reports are
subsequently discussed at meetings of the WTO’s Trade
Policy Review Body.

Database
In 2013, the WTO launched its Trade Monitoring Database
where all information gathered since October 2008, when the
monitoring exercise began, can be found. The database,
which is also publicly available, provides information on trade
measures implemented by WTO members and observers
and includes various search criteria options, e.g. country or
country group, HS code, type of measure, date of measure
etc. Members are regularly invited to update all existing
information compiled by the WTO Secretariat since 2008 so
as to facilitate an evaluation of the extent of “roll-back” of such
measures. The database is updated once a new report has
been discussed by WTO members.

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

94

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

Trade, debt and finance
WTO Director-General Roberto Azevêdo raised the issue of developing countries’ access to
trade finance at a seminar of the Working Group on Trade, Debt and Finance in March and
again at the Third UN Financing for Development Conference in Addis Ababa in July. Trading
companies, in particular from developing countries, find increasing difficulties in accessing
trade finance. DG Azevêdo pledged to consult multilateral partners and make concrete
proposals in the first half of 2016. The Working Group continued efforts to improve
understanding of the links between exchange rates and trade.

ome 80-90 per cent of world trade relies on trade
ﬁnance (trade credit and insurance/guarantees). During
the worst of the ﬁnancial and economic crisis in 2008-09,
many companies, especially smaller enterprises in both
developed and developing countries, found it impossible
or prohibitively expensive to obtain the credit they needed
to trade.
In March 2015, WTO members held a seminar to examine
the challenges faced by traders, in particular small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in getting access to trade
ﬁnance at an affordable cost. The WTO Secretariat issued
an updated background note on improving the availability
of trade ﬁnance in developing countries, incorporating
information from the latest surveys undertaken by multilateral
development banks.
The surveys include “Trade ﬁnance in Africa”, undertaken by
the African Development Bank, which looked into the trade
activities of 276 African commercial banks operating in 45
African countries. The estimate for unmet demand for trade
ﬁnance in Africa was between USD 110 billion and USD
120 billion, a third of the total market. The Asian Development
Bank estimated the ﬁnancing gap to stand at around
USD 1 trillion globally.

Background on trade, debt and ﬁnance
WTO ministers decided in Doha in 2001 to
establish a Working Group on Trade, Debt and
Finance to look at how the WTO could contribute
to ﬁnding a durable solution to the external debt
problems of many developing countries and to
avoid having WTO members’ trade opportunities
undercut by ﬁnancial instabilities. The Working
Group has been focusing its attention on a range of
ﬁnancial issues with an impact on trade, including
the provision of trade ﬁnance, and more recently,
the relationship between exchange rates and trade.

90%
Some 80-90 per cent
of world trade relies on
trade ﬁnance (trade credit
and insurance/guarantees).

Implementation
and monitoring

S

The surveys cited above also highlighted the fact that SMEs
face the greatest hurdles in accessing ﬁnancing on affordable
terms because they typically have less collateral, guarantees
and credit history than larger, more established companies.
They also have less access to the largest banks. Even when
liquidity is abundant, it may not always be available to them.
The poorer the country, the greater the challenges faced by
SMEs in accessing trade ﬁnance. Local ﬁnancial institutions
supporting them may be smaller, less internationalized, or less
advanced in terms of risk management. In many such countries
and in some large regions, access to know-how and skills
in handling trade ﬁnance instruments is also a challenge.
Moreover, following the 2009 ﬁnancial crisis, the appetite of
international banks for investing in developing countries has
been limited.
Some 53 per cent of trade ﬁnance requests by SMEs are
rejected, against only 7 per cent for multinational companies,
according to an Asian Development Bank survey. The lack of
trade ﬁnance can be a powerful non-tariff barrier to trade and
for the integration of countries into the global trading system.
At the Working Group seminar, speakers from both WTO
members and international ﬁnancial institutions provided
multiple examples of the difﬁculties met by small ﬁrms in
accessing ﬁnance for trade in all continents. WTO members
acknowledged that trade ﬁnance gaps were due to a mix
of structural and developmental factors, including a lack of
know-know and the low capacity of local ﬁnancial sectors
in some developing countries. More needs to be done by

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

95

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

DG Azevêdo speaking
at a seminar on “Trade
Finance in Developing
Countries” at the WTO
on 26 March 2015.

multilateral partners to develop local and regional trade ﬁnance
industries through knowledge dissemination, the building
up of institutions and even direct support, they concluded.
The WTO and DG Azevêdo were encouraged to monitor and
address these gaps in the context of their joint work with other
multilateral institutions.

Strengthening coherence

DG Azevêdo agreed to increase the focus on this topic.
He addressed trade ﬁnance in his keynote speech to the UN
Third Financing for Development Conference in Addis Ababa
in July, in which he promised to consult development partners
and come up with concrete proposals with a view to reducing
trade ﬁnancing gaps in the future. The idea is not to “re-invent
the wheel” but to rely on existing successful mechanisms and
initiatives, he told the conference, called to secure ﬁnancing for
the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)
(see page 119). Such mechanisms include trade ﬁnance
facilitation programmes operated by multilateral development
banks and training and capacity building initiatives.

At the suggestion of Brazil, WTO members had agreed in
2014 to commission a factual note from the WTO Secretariat
on instances and cases in the history of the GATT/WTO
system where multilateral trade rules had been invoked to
address the impact of exchange rate movements on members’
rights and obligations under the WTO Agreement.

In recent years, a network of trade ﬁnance facilitation
programmes has been established in almost all multilateral
development banks, including the World Bank’s International
Finance Corporation (IFC), the Asian Development
Bank, the African Development Bank, the Inter-American
Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These
programmes support roughly USD 30 billion in (small) trade
transactions in the poorest countries, against an estimated
global ﬁnancing gap of around USD 1 trillion.
DG Azevêdo plans to issue his proposals in the ﬁrst half of
2016 on how the WTO and its partners can reduce the trade
ﬁnance gap. He believes that there is a signiﬁcant role for the
WTO and the G20 group of leading developed and developing
countries to give greater prominence to the issue and to help
ﬁnd potential solutions.

The Working Group continued its efforts to improve
understanding of the links between exchange rates and trade,
in particular with a view to strengthening the coherence
between the International Monetary Fund and WTO.

Members discussed the note in September. A wide range
of views was expressed on the use of this provision of the
GATT, including its use in what is regarded as today’s more
complex global economic environment. Members also showed
interest in pursuing the discussion in the Working Group on
exchange rates and trade, including the impact of exchange
rate misalignments on tariffs.

Expert Group on Trade Finance
Established in the wake of the Asian ﬁnancial crisis in the late
1990s, the Expert Group on Trade Finance brings together
representatives of the main players in trade ﬁnance, including
the IFC, regional development banks, export credit agencies
and big commercial banks as well as the International
Chamber of Commerce and other international organizations.
Under the chairmanship of DG Azevêdo, the Expert Group
continued to evaluate gaps in the trade ﬁnance markets,
especially in the poorest countries. One approach to helping
ﬁll these gaps has been for multilateral development banks to
expand trade ﬁnance facilitation programmes in the regions
where they operate (see above). DG Azevêdo conﬁrmed
the central role of the Group’s work on trade ﬁnance for the
WTO and indicated that the Organization was ready to take
whatever steps are necessary, provided it had the support of
WTO members.

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance

96

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

Government Procurement
Agreement

Accessions to the GPA
Montenegro and New Zealand completed their accession
process and became parties to the Agreement in July
and August 2015 respectively, giving them access to a
US$ 1.7 trillion market. For Montenegro, the work was
concluded essentially in one year, while for New Zealand,
it was a two-year process.
Negotiations were concluded on the accessions of Moldova
and Ukraine. They will become parties to the GPA 30
days after depositing their instruments of accession at the
WTO, which is expected in the ﬁrst half of 2016. The WTO
Secretariat estimates that altogether these accessions may
add as much as US$ 17.5 billion annually to the value of the
market access commitments under the GPA.
Accession candidates are invited to accede to the GPA after
a review by existing parties of their legislative, regulatory
and policy frameworks to ensure full compliance with the
GPA. They must also reach agreement with each of the

Background on the Government
Procurement Agreement
The WTO Agreement on Government Procurement
(GPA) ensures that signatories do not discriminate
against the products, services or suppliers of other
parties to the GPA with respect to the government
procurement opportunities that are opened to foreign
competition. The GPA also requires transparent and
competitive purchasing practices in the markets
covered. The GPA is a plurilateral agreement, which
means that it applies only to those WTO members
that have agreed to be bound by it. The Committee
on Government Procurement administers the GPA.

existing parties on which parts of their procurement market
will be covered and thus open to international competition.
The parties hope that the recent accessions will encourage
other prospective members to come forward.
Work on the GPA accessions of Australia and Tajikistan
began in 2015. Both countries have circulated market access
offers and information concerning relevant national legislation.
During the year, constructive discussions took place on
China’s accession. The parties to the GPA see China’s
accession, on the appropriate terms, as a matter of great
signiﬁcance for the Agreement, for the WTO, and for the world
economy. They also see it as a very important signal for other
emerging economies.
Costa Rica, Pakistan, Seychelles and Thailand were granted
observer status under the GPA. Thirty WTO members now
hold observer status.

Monitoring of implementation
and legislation
In 2015, Armenia and the Republic of Korea submitted their
instruments of acceptance regarding the revised Agreement
on Government Procurement, bringing it into force for these
two countries. The revised agreement took effect on 6 April
2014 after two-thirds of the parties to the GPA accepted it.
It is now in force for all but one of the parties, Switzerland,
which has provided regular updates to the Committee.
It has indicated that it will provide its acceptance as soon
as possible.
The revised agreement extends the GPA’s coverage to
approximately 500 additional procurement entities, including
local government and sub-central entities, together with new
services and other areas of public procurement activities.
It should bring market access gains of US $80-100 billion or

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

97

Implementation
and monitoring

Montenegro and New Zealand joined the Government Procurement Agreement (GPA) in 2015
and negotiations were concluded on the accessions of Moldova and Ukraine. Work began on
the accessions of Australia and Tajikistan while constructive discussions took place on China’s
accession. Phase II of the e-GPA system, an automated market access information tool, was
launched. The WTO Secretariat undertook technical assistance activities regarding GPA
accession and procurement reforms, and deepened its partnerships with other international
organizations.

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

more annually. The text of the agreement has been streamlined
and modernized to include, for example, standards related
to the use of electronic procurement tools. It recognizes and
facilitates the use of e-procurement, while strengthening
the GPA’s role in promoting good governance and
battling corruption.
The revised GPA gives developing countries important
ﬂexibilities to manage their transition to a more internationally
competitive government procurement regime. It reinforces
the scope provided by the original agreement to promote
the conservation of natural resources and to protect
the environment through the application of appropriate
technical speciﬁcations.
The GPA provides two independent mechanisms for settling
procurement-related disputes: “domestic review mechanisms”
at the national level, and the WTO dispute settlement system

(see page 102). In 2015, the WTO’s Dispute Settlement
Body (DSB) was informed by the Committee on Government
Procurement about relevant new provisions in the revised
GPA. The Committee also considered modiﬁcations to parties’
schedules of commitments, statistical reports, threshold levels
expressed in national currencies and changes in parties’
legislation implementing the GPA.
The entry into force of the revised agreement triggered
work in the Committee on Government Procurement on
new work programmes, which were a separate outcome of
the negotiations. The programmes deal with such issues as
facilitating participation by small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) in government procurement, promoting sustainable
procurement practices, improving the statistical data available
on parties’ operations concerning the GPA and enhancing
transparency about the exclusions and restrictions in the
parties’ coverage schedules.

Figure 18: Market coverage, members and observers
of the Government Procurement Agreement

1.7 trillion
17 WTO members (counting the
European Union as one) are parties
to the Government Procurement
Agreement, giving them access
to a US$ 1.7 trillion market.

Parties to the GPA: 17 parties (counting the European Union as one).
Negotiations to join the GPA concluded in 2015: Republic of Moldova and Ukraine.
WTO members in the process of GPA accession: Australia, Albania, China,
Georgia, Jordan, Kyrgyz Republic, Oman, and Tajikistan.
Other observer countries: Argentina, Kingdom of Bahrain, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mongolia, Pakistan, Panama, Russian Federation,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Thailand, The Former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia, Turkey and Viet Nam.

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa

98

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

The WTO Secretariat has developed an automated GPA
market access information tool (the “e-GPA system”) to
provide a single point of entry to the market access information
available under the revised GPA, together with related
information that the parties are committed to provide. An initial
version of the tool was released in November 2014 (“Phase I”)
and in early 2015 “Phase II” was launched. This phase will
further enhance the e-GPA system and incorporate additional
functionalities. It is envisaged that the Phase II product will be
made publicly accessible later in 2016.

Technical assistance and cooperation with
other intergovernmental organizations

In Central and Eastern Europe, the provision of technical
assistance has been greatly facilitated by the WTO
Secretariat’s cooperation with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Collaboration
with other international organizations is also increasing.
In September 2015, the Secretariat updated the Committee
on its ongoing discussions with the World Bank to achieve
greater synergies on government procurement issues. A new
procurement framework, approved by the Bank’s Executive
Board in 2015, refers to GPA accession as one path that
World Bank countries can use to put into place legislation
which may also be acceptable to the World Bank for its
own purposes.

Implementation
and monitoring

The WTO Secretariat carries out an intensive programme of
technical assistance relating to the GPA. This includes regional
workshops, tailored national seminars and Geneva-based

activities. A large number of such events took place during the
year, reﬂecting not only heightened interest in the revised GPA
but also the close relationship between the GPA and many
regional initiatives.

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

99

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
>

The WTO reached a significant milestone with the receipt of its 500th trade dispute for
settlement. “This shows that the WTO’s dispute settlement system enjoys tremendous
confidence among the membership,” said Director-General Roberto Azevêdo.

>

2015 was the busiest year on record for the WTO’s dispute settlement system,
with an average of 30 active panels per month. The Dispute Settlement
Body adopted 11 panel reports, compared with nine in 2014.

>

To deal with the increased breadth and complexity of disputes over the last 20 years,
the WTO has increased staffing levels in its dispute settlement divisions and is
looking into ways of making further improvements to how the system functions.

>

The Dispute Settlement Body reappointed two Appellate
Body members, Ujal Singh Bhatia of India and Thomas
Graham of the United States, for second four-year terms.

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

102

Appellate Body

112

Dispute
settlement

Dispute settlement activity in 2015

Background on dispute
outreachsettlement
WTO
The
WTO
members
maintains
bringregular
disputes
dialogue
to the WTO if
with non-governmental
they
think their rights under
organizations,
trade agreements
parliamentarians,
are
being infringed.
other
Settling
international
disputes is the
organizations,of
responsibility
the
the
media
Dispute
andSettlement
the generalBody.
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Dispute settlement activity
in 2015
The WTO’s dispute settlement system experienced its busiest year so far, with an average of
30 active panels per month. During 2015, the WTO received its 500th trade dispute for
settlement. Over the year, the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) received 13 requests for
consultations, the first step in the disputes process, more than half of them from developing
countries (see Figure 1). It also established 15 new panels to adjudicate 17 new matters. As of
31 December 2015, there were 26 active disputes before the Appellate Body, panels or
in arbitration.

he 500th dispute was submitted to the WTO on
10 November, when Pakistan ﬁled a request for
consultations with South Africa regarding South Africa’s
provisional anti-dumping duties on cement from Pakistan.
The total of 500 disputes over the 20-year history of the WTO
contrasts with the total of 300 disputes brought under the
dispute settlement system of the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) — the predecessor to the WTO — over a
period of 47 years. “There is no doubt that the WTO dispute
settlement system has served the membership extremely
well,” said Director-General Roberto Azevêdo. “It is a system
recognized the world over for providing fair, high quality results
that respond to both developing and developed members.”
Table 1 provides further information on the complainants and
respondents involved in disputes since 1995.

adjudicated by a single panel. The DSB also adopted eight
Appellate Body reports covering six distinct matters against
seven reports on four distinct matters the year before.

In 2015, the DSB adopted 11 panel reports covering eight
distinct matters, compared with nine reports on ﬁve distinct
matters in 2014. Where more than one complaint is ﬁled
dealing with the same matter, the complaints may be

In addition, the DSB adopted panel reports in disputes
concerning Ukrainian safeguard measures on Japanese cars
and measures imposed by the United States on imports of
certain meat and meat products from Argentina.

T

Background on dispute settlement activity
The General Council convenes as the Dispute
Settlement Body (DSB) to deal with disputes between
WTO members. Such disputes may arise with respect
to any agreement contained in the Final Act of the
Uruguay Round that is subject to the Understanding
on Rules and Procedures Governing the Settlement
of Disputes (DSU). The DSB has authority to establish
dispute settlement panels, refer matters to arbitration,
adopt panel, Appellate Body and arbitration reports,
maintain surveillance over the implementation of
recommendations and rulings contained in such reports,
and authorize suspension of concessions in the event of
non-compliance with those recommendations and rulings.

The DSB adopted panel and Appellate Body reports in
disputes concerning: countervailing duties imposed by the
United States on a range of Chinese goods; import measures
imposed by Argentina on a variety of goods; anti-dumping
measures on frozen warm water shrimp from Viet Nam;
prohibitions imposed by India on the importation of US
agricultural products purportedly because of concerns related
to avian inﬂuenza; an “additional duty” imposed by Peru on
imports of Guatemalan agricultural products; and Chinese
anti-dumping duties imposed on high-performance stainless
steel seamless tubes from the European Union and Japan.

500
Over 500 trade disputes have
been submitted to the WTO
for settlement since 1995.

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes

102

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

Figure 1: Disputes filed by WTO members, and panels
established by the DSB, 1995 to 2015
25

1995

5
39

1996

11
50

1997

15
41

1998

13

The DSB adopted four compliance panel reports in three
distinct matters and three Appellate Body compliance reports
covering two distinct matters during 2015. Prior to this,
the previous compliance proceedings took place in 2009.
A compliance panel is established when there is disagreement
between the original parties as to whether the losing party has
brought its measure into line with WTO rules following an
adjudication process. Members can also challenge the ﬁndings
and conclusions of a compliance panel report before the
Appellate Body.

30
20

Panels and the Appellate Body issued compliance reports
in disputes brought by Canada and Mexico with regard to
revised US labelling requirements for beef and pork imports.
The DSB also adopted compliance panel and Appellate Body
reports in a challenge brought by Mexico against the US
revised regulations setting out the conditions under which
tuna products sold in the United States may be labelled as
“dolphin-safe”. A panel also issued a compliance report
concerning measures taken by China to implement the DSB’s
recommendations and rulings in the dispute “China — GOES”,
which involved anti-dumping and countervailing duties on
grain oriented ﬂat-rolled electrical steel (GOES) from the
United States.

34

2000

11
23

2001

15
37

2002

11
26

2003

19
19

2004

7
12

2005

8
20

2006

12
13
11

2007

Also during 2015, the DSB authorized Canada and Mexico
to take retaliation measures against the United States as
it had not brought itself into conformity with the DSB’s
recommendations and rulings regarding its meat labelling
requirements as set out in the panel and Appellate Body
compliance reports. The arbitrator set the value of retaliation –
the value of the concessions or other obligations that can be
suspended – at CA$ 1,054.729 million annually for Canada
and US$ 227.758 million annually for Mexico.

19

2008

3
14

2009

10
17

2010

6
8
9

2011

27

2012

11
20

2013

12

2014

14
13

2015

13
15

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

Disputes filed
Panels established by DSB

There has been a recent increase in WTO members
requesting that an arbitrator determine how long a “losing”
member can have to implement the panel and Appellate Body
recommendations as adopted by the DSB. During 2015,
WTO members made three such requests for arbitration to
determine the reasonable period of time for implementation.
In the preceding ﬁve years, there were only three requests for
this form of arbitration. The three cases where arbitrators made
their decisions regarding the reasonable period of time in 2015
were “US – Countervailing Measures (China)”, “US – Shrimp II
(Viet Nam)”, and “Peru – Agricultural Products”.

In May 2015, the European Union and Indonesia informed
the DSB that, in light of the mutually agreed solution reached
by Indonesia and the United States in the “US — Clove
Cigarettes” dispute, the European Union had withdrawn its
request for consultations pursuant to Article 22.2 (suspension
of concessions). This dispute concerned a US ban on the
production and sale of clove cigarettes, as well as most other
ﬂavoured cigarettes. Indonesia is the world’s largest producer
of clove cigarettes.

11
The Dispute Settlement Body
adopted 11 panel reports in
2015, up from nine in 2014.

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

103

Dispute
settlement

1999

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Table 1: WTO members involved in disputes, 1995 to 2015
Member

Complainant

Respondent

Antigua and Barbuda

1

0

Argentina

20

Armenia

Complainant

Respondent

Korea, Republic of

17

15

22

Malaysia

1

1

0

1

Mexico

23

14

Australia

7

15

Moldova, Republic of

1

1

Bangladesh

1

0

Netherlands

0

3

Belgium

0

3

New Zealand

9

0

Brazil

27

16

Nicaragua

1

2

Canada

34

18

Norway

4

0

Chile

10

13

Pakistan

5

3

China

13

34

Panama

7

1

Colombia

5

5

Peru

3

5

Costa Rica

5

0

Philippines

5

6

Croatia

0

1

Poland

3

1

Cuba

1

0

Portugal

0

1

Czech Republic

1

2

Romania

0

2

Denmark

1

1

Russian Federation

4

6

Dominican Republic

1

7

Singapore

1

0

Ecuador

3

3

Slovak Republic

0

3

Egypt

0

4

South Africa

0

5

El Salvador

1

0

Spain

0

3

96

82

Sri Lanka

1

0

France

0

4

Sweden

0

1

Germany

0

2

Switzerland

4

0

Greece

0

3

Chinese Taipei

6

0

Guatemala

9

2

Thailand

13

3

Honduras

8

0

Trinidad and Tobago

0

2

Hong Kong, China

1

0

Turkey

2

9

Hungary

5

2

Ukraine

4

3

India

21

23

United Kingdom

0

3

Indonesia

10

13

United States

109

124

Ireland

0

3

Uruguay

1

1

Italy

0

1

Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

1

2

Japan

21

15

Viet Nam

3

0

European Union (formerly EC)

Member

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes

104

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

Developing country members initiated seven of the 13 new
requests for consultations, the ﬁrst stage in the disputes
process, ﬁled in 2015, compared with six requests initiated
by developed countries. Developing country members were
the respondents in nine disputes and developed countries in
four disputes.
Among the developing country members initiating disputes,
Chinese Taipei initiated two dispute settlement proceedings
during 2015. In one of the disputes, it has requested
consultations with Indonesia regarding a safeguard measure
imposed on imports of certain ﬂat-rolled iron or steel products.
In a second dispute, it has requested consultations with India
regarding anti-dumping duties imposed on imports of USB
ﬂash drives originating in Chinese Taipei.

Other active WTO members during 2015 included Japan,
Russia and the United States, which have each initiated two
disputes in areas ranging from measures imposed by Brazil
that affect taxation and charges in the automotive sector and
the electronics and technology industry (complaint by Japan) to
measures adopted by Korea in the wake of the accident at the
Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant.
Tables 2 and 3 provide further information on the complainants
and respondents participating in consultations and on the
active panels and appeals at the end of 2015.

30
The WTO’s dispute settlement
system experienced its
busiest year so far in 2015,
with an average of 30 active
panels per month.

Pakistan has requested consultations with South Africa
regarding provisional anti-dumping duties on imports of Portland
cement products from Pakistan. Indonesia has commenced
consultations with the United States over concerns about the
imposition of anti-dumping and countervailing measures on
certain coated paper products from Indonesia. Also in 2015,
Viet Nam requested consultations with Indonesia regarding a
safeguard measure on imports of certain ﬂat-rolled iron or steel
products from Viet Nam.

Table 2: Requests for consultations in 2015
Title

Dispute
number

Complainant

Date of initial
request

WTO agreements cited

Status as of 31 December 2015

China – Demonstration
Bases

WT/DS489

United States

11 February 2015

Agreement on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures (SCM)

Panel established but not yet
composed

Indonesia – Safeguard
on Certain Iron or Steel
Products (Chinese Taipei)

WT/DS490

Chinese Taipei

19 February 2015

General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) 1994

Panel composed; panel work will
commence once there is staff
available to assist panel

Safeguards Agreement

US – Coated Paper
(Indonesia)

WT/DS491

Indonesia

28 September 2015

EU – Poultry Meat (China)

WT/DS492

China

8 April 2015

Ukraine – Ammonium Nitrate

WT/DS493

Russian Federation

7 May 2015

SCM
Anti-Dumping Agreement (ADP)

Panel established but not yet
composed

GATT 1994

Panel work has commenced

GATT 1994

In consultations

ADP
GATT 1994

EU – Cost Adjustment
Methodologies (Russia) (II)

ADP
WT/DS494

Russian Federation

7 May 2015

In consultations

SCM
Agreement Establishing the World
Trade Organization (WTO)
GATT 1994

Korea – Radionuclides
(Japan)

WT/DS495

Japan

21 May 2015

Agreement on the Application
of Sanitary and Phytosanitary
Measures (SPS)

Panel work has commenced

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

105

Dispute
settlement

Which WTO members initiated disputes
in 2015?

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Title
Indonesia – Safeguard
on Certain Iron or Steel
Products

Dispute
number

Complainant

Date of initial
request

WT/DS496

Viet Nam

1 June 2015

WTO agreements cited

Status as of 31 December 2015

GATT 1994

Panel composed; panel work will
commence once there is staff
available to assist panel

Safeguards Agreement

(Viet Nam)
GATT 1994
Brazil – Taxation (Japan)

WT/DS497

Japan

2 July 2015

Trade-Related Investment
Measures (TRIMs)

Panel work has commenced

SCM
India – USB Flash Drives
from Chinese Taipei

WT/DS498

Chinese Taipei

24 September 2015

Russia – Railway Equipment
and Parts

WT/DS499

Ukraine

21 October 2015

South Africa – Portland
Cement (Pakistan)

WT/DS500

Pakistan

9 November 2015

China – Domestic Aircraft
(US)

WT/DS501

United States

8 December 2015

GATT 1994

In consultations

ADP
GATT 1994
Agreement on Technical Barriers
to Trade (TBT)
GATT 1994

In consultations

In consultations

ADP
GATT 1994

In consultations

Protocol of Accession

Table 3: Active appeals and panels as of 31 December 2015
WT/DS No.

Title

WT/DS353
Article 21.5

US – Large Civil
Aircraft (2nd
complaint)

European
Communities

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Republic of
Korea, Russian Federation

WT/DS316
Article 21.5

EC and certain
Member States –
Large Civil Aircraft

United States

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Republic of
Korea

WT/DS453

Argentina –
Financial Services

Panama

Australia, Brazil, China, Ecuador, European Union,
Guatemala, Honduras, India, Oman, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, United States

WT/DS497

Brazil – Taxation
(Japan)

Japan

Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Colombia,
European Union, India, Republic of Korea, Russian
Federation, Singapore, Turkey, Ukraine United States

WT/DS472

Brazil – Taxation

Complainant Third parties

European
Union

Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Colombia,
India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,
South Africa, Chinese Taipei, Turkey, United States

Date of panel
composition or appeal

Agreements cited

30 October 2012
(panel established
23 October 2012)

SCM

17 April 2012
(panel established
13 April 2012)

SCM

Appeal ﬁled 27 October
2015

GATT 1994

26 March 2015

GATT 1994

(panel established
28 September 2015)

SCM

GATS

TRIMs
GATT 1994

(panel established
17 December 2014)

SCM
TRIMs

Indonesia – Iron or
Steel Products (Viet
Nam)

Viet Nam

Australia, Chile, China, European Union, India, Japan, 9 December 2015
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Chinese
(panel established
Taipei, Ukraine, United States
28 October 2015)

GATT 1994

WT/DS496*

Indonesia – Iron
or Steel Products
(Chinese Taipei)

Chinese
Taipei

Australia, Chile, China, European Union, India, Japan, 9 December 2015
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation, Ukraine,
(panel established
United States, Viet Nam
28 September 2015)

GATT 1994

WT/DS490*

WT/DS492

EU – Poultry Meat
(China)

China

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, Russian Federation,
Thailand, United States

WT/DS488*

US – OCTG
(Korea)

Republic of
Korea

Canada, China, European Union, India, Mexico,
Russian Federation, Turkey

Safeguards
Agreement

Safeguards
Agreement

20 July 2015
(panel established
3 December 2015)
13 July 2015
(panel established
25 March 2015)

GATT 1994

GATT 1994
ADP

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes

106

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

Date of panel
composition or appeal

WT/DS No.

Title

Complainant Third parties

WT/DS487

US – Tax Incentives

European
Union

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation

WT/DS486*

EU – PET (Pakistan)

Pakistan

China, United States

WT/DS485

Russia – Tariff
Treatment

European
Union

18 June 2015
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia,
India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Republic of Moldova, (panel established
Norway, Singapore Ukraine, United States
25 March 2015)

WT/DS483

China – Cellulose
Pulp

Canada

Brazil, Chile, European Union, Japan, Republic of
Korea, Norway, Singapore, United States, Uruguay

WT/DS482*

Canada – Welded
Pipe

Chinese
Taipei

Brazil, China, European Union, Republic of Korea,
Norway, United Arab Emirates, United States

WT/DS480*

EU – Biodiesel

Indonesia

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India,
Japan, Norway, Russian Federation, Singapore,
Turkey, Ukraine, United States

Agreements cited

22 April 2015
(panel established
23 February 2015)
13 May 2015
(panel established
25 March 2015)

SCM

GATT 1994
SCM
GATT 1994

WT/DS479

Russia –
Commercial
Vehicles

European
Union

Brazil, China, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Turkey,
Ukraine, United States

10 March 2015
(panel established
27 April 2015)
10 March 2015

Agreement on
Implementation of
Article VII (Customs
Valuation)
GATT 1994
ADP

GATT 1994

(panel established
12 May 2015)

ADP

31 August 2015

GATT 1994

(panel established
4 November 2015)

ADP

20 October 2014

GATT 1994

(panel established
18 December 2014)

ADP

WTO

GATT 1994

Indonesia – Import
Licensing Regimes
(US)

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, European 8 October 2015
United States Union, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Norway,
(panel established
Paraguay, Singapore, Chinese Taipei, Thailand
20 May 2015)

Import Licensing
Agreement
Agreement on
Preshipment
Inspection (PSI)
GATT 1994

WT/DS477

Indonesia – Import
Licensing Regimes
(New Zealand)

New Zealand

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, European 8 October 2015
Union, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Norway,
(panel established
Paraguay, Singapore, Chinese Taipei, Thailand
20 May 2015)

Agreement on
Agriculture
Import Licensing
Agreement
PSI

Russia – Pigs (EU)

European
Union

Australia, Brazil, China, India, Japan, Republic of
Korea, Norway, South Africa, Chinese Taipei, United
States

4 December 2014

WT/DS475

(panel established
22 July 2014)

SPS
GATT 1994

EU – Biodiesel

Argentina

Australia, China, Colombia, Indonesia, Malaysia,
Mexico, Norway, Russian Federation, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Turkey, United States

23 June 2014

WT/DS473

(panel established
25 April 2014)

ADP

Brazil, Canada, European Union, India, Japan,
Republic of Korea, Norway, Russian Federation,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Chinese Taipei, Turkey,
Ukraine, Viet Nam

28 August 2014

China

Indonesia

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba,
Dominican Republic, European Union, Guatemala,
Honduras, India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Peru, Philippines, Russian
Federation, Singapore, Chinese Taipei, Thailand,
Turkey, Ukraine, United States, Uruguay, Zimbabwe

WT/DS471

WT/DS467

US – Anti-Dumping
Methodologies
(China)

Australia – Tobacco
Plain Packaging
(Indonesia)

GATT 1994

WTO
GATT 1994

(panel established
26 March 2014)

ADP

5 May 2014

GATT 1994

(panel established
26 March 2014)

TBT
TRIPS

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

107

Dispute
settlement

WT/DS478

Agreement on
Agriculture

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

WT/DS No.

WT/DS458

WT/DS441

Title

Australia – Tobacco
Plain Packaging
(Cuba)

Australia – Tobacco
Plain Packaging
(Dominican
Republic)

Complainant Third parties

Cuba

Dominican
Republic

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Dominican
Republic, European Union, Guatemala, Honduras,
India, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Chinese
Taipei, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, United States,
Uruguay, Zimbabwe
Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba,
European Union, Guatemala, Honduras, India,
Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malaysia,
Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Peru, Philippines, Russian Federation, Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, South Africa, Chinese
Taipei, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey,
Ukraine, United States, Uruguay, Zimbabwe

WT/DS435

Australia – Tobacco
Plain Packaging
(Honduras)

Honduras

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba,
Dominican Republic, European Union, Guatemala,
India, Indonesia, Japan, Republic of Korea, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Singapore, South Africa, Chinese Taipei, Thailand,
Turkey, Ukraine, United States, Uruguay, Zambia,
Zimbabwe

WT/DS442

EU – Fatty Alcohols

Indonesia

India, Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Turkey,
United States

Date of panel
composition or appeal

Agreements cited

5 May 2014

GATT 1994

(panel established
25 April 2014)

TBT

5 May 2014

GATT 1994

(panel established
25  pril 2014)

TRIPS

5 May 2014

GATT 1994
TRIPS
TBT

TRIPS

TBT

(panel established
25 September 2014)

18 December 2014

GATT 1994

(panel established
25 June 2013)

ADP

* These panels are considered active because they have been composed. However, work on the disputes has not yet commenced as there are no available
lawyers who can be assigned to the disputes to assist the panellists.

Subject matter of the disputes
WTO members continue to litigate in many different trade
areas (see Figure 2). Current disputes include Australia’s
plain packaging requirements for tobacco products, certain
measures imposed by Argentina that affect trade in goods
and services, a ban imposed by Russia on the importation
of European pork products because of concerns related to
African swine fever and European Union modiﬁcations to its
tariff concessions on poultry meat.
Trade remedies disputes under way include EU anti-dumping
duties on Indonesian biodiesel, EU anti-dumping measures
on the importation of fatty alcohols from Indonesia, India and
Malaysia, Russian anti-dumping duties imposed on certain EU
commercial vehicles as well as countervailing duties imposed
by the European Union on certain polyethylene terephthalate
(PET) products from Pakistan. PET is a plastic resin used
in containers. Compliance panel proceedings in the trade
remedies disputes concerning Boeing and Airbus large civil
aircraft are still ongoing.

Figure 2: WTO agreements* referred to in requests for
consultations, 1995-2015 (number of times)
43 WTO
4 GPA
7 Rules of Origin
23 GATS
17 Customs Valuation
5 Preshipment
Inspection

TRIMS 41
TRIPS 34
Import Licensing 44
Safeguards 47
SPS 43
TBT 49

Agriculture 73
398 GATT 1994
SCM 108

Anti-Dumping 112

* GATS: General Agreement on Trade in Services; GATT 1994: General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994; GPA: Agreement on Government
Procurement; SCM: Subsidies and Countervailing Measures; SPS: Sanitary and
Phytosanitary Measures; TBT: Technical Barriers to Trade; TRIMS: Trade-Related
Investment Measures; TRIPS: Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights; WTO: Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization.

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes

108

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Reports circulated or adopted by the DSB
As of 31 December 2015, six panel reports had been
circulated during the year of which two were appealed to the
Appellate Body and then adopted by DSB. Two of the panel
reports are pending either appeal to the Appellate Body or
adoption by the DSB and the other two panel reports were
adopted by the DSB without being appealed.
As for the compliance disputes, three compliance panel
reports were circulated during 2015, one report was appealed

to the Appellate Body and the other two reports were adopted
without appeal to the Appellate Body. (For information about
Appellate Body reports, see page 115.)
Table 4 shows panel and Appellate Body reports adopted or
circulated (pending adoption) during 2015. It also shows panel
and Appellate Body reports that were circulated in 2014 and
adopted in 2015. The table also indicates the agreements
that were the subject of the disputes based on the request
for consultations.

Table 4: Reports circulated or adopted in 2015
Dispute

US –
Countervailing
Duties (China)

Document
symbol

WT/DS437/R
WT/DS437/AB

Complainant

China

WTO agreements
covered

Respondent

Third parties

United States

Australia, Brazil, Canada,
European Union, India, Japan, Republic
of Korea, Norway, Russian Federation,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Turkey,
Viet Nam

Date of adoption
by DSB

GATT 1994
SCM Agreement
China’s Protocol of
Accession

16 January 2015

[DSU]
Agreement on Agriculture

Argentina
– Import
Measures

WT/DS438/R
WT/DS438/AB

European Union

Argentina

Australia, Canada, China, Ecuador,
Guatemala, India, Israel, Japan, Republic
of Korea, Norway, Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, Switzerland, Chinese Taipei,
Thailand, Turkey, United States

GATT 1994
Import Licensing
Agreement

26 January 2015

Safeguards Agreement
TRIMs Agreement
Agreement on Agriculture

WT/DS444/R
WT/DS444/AB

United States

Argentina

GATT 1994
Import Licensing
Agreement

26 January 2015

Safeguards Agreement
TRIMs Agreement

Argentina
– Import
Measures

WT/DS445/R
WT/DS445/AB

Japan

Argentina

Australia, Canada, China, Ecuador,
European Union, Guatemala, India,
Israel, Republic of Korea, Norway,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Switzerland,
Chinese Taipei, Thailand, Turkey,
United States

Agreement on Agriculture
GATT 1994
Import Licensing
Agreement

26 January 2015

Agreement on Safeguards
TRIMs Agreement
Anti-Dumping Agreement

US – Shrimp II
(Viet Nam)

WT/DS429/R
WT/DS429/AB

Viet Nam

United States

China, Ecuador, European Union, Japan,
Norway, Thailand

DSU
GATT 1994

22 April 2015

WTO Agreement
US – COOL
(Article 21.5 –
Canada)

WT/DS384/RW

US – COOL
(Article 21.5 –
Mexico)

WT/DS386/RW

India –
Agricultural
Products

WT/DS430/R

United States

Australia, Brazil, China, Colombia,
GATT 1994
European Union, Guatemala, India, Japan,
Republic of Korea, Mexico, New Zealand TBT Agreement

29 May 2015

United States

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China,
Colombia, European Union, Guatemala,
India, Japan, Republic of Korea,
New Zealand

29 May 2015

United States

India

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, China,
Colombia, Ecuador, European Union,
Guatemala, Japan, Viet Nam

Japan

Ukraine

Australia, European Union, India,
Republic of Korea, Russian Federation,
Turkey, United States

WT/DS384/AB/ Canada
RW

WT/DS386/AB/ Mexico
RW

WT/DS430/AB

Ukraine –
WT/DS468/R
Passenger Cars

GATT 1994
TBT Agreement

GATT 1994
SPS Agreement
GATT 1994
Safeguards

19 June 2015

20 July 2015

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

109

Dispute
settlement

Argentina
– Import
Measures

Australia, Canada, China, Ecuador,
European Union, Guatemala, India,
Israel, Japan, Republic of Korea, Norway,
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Switzerland,
Chinese Taipei, Thailand, Turkey

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Dispute

Peru –
Agricultural
Products

Document
symbol

WT/DS457/R
WT/DS457/AB

Complainant

Guatemala

Respondent

Third parties

Peru

Argentina, Brazil, China, Colombia,
Ecuador, El Salvador, European Union,
Honduras, India, Republic of Korea,
United States

WTO agreements
covered

Date of adoption
by DSB

Agreement on Agriculture
Customs Valuation
Agreement

31 July 2015

GATT 1994
ADP

China – GOES
Article 21.5

WT/DS414/R

United States

China

European Union India, Japan, Russian
Federation

SCM

31 August 2015

GATT 1994
GATT 1994
US – Animals

WT/DS447/R

Argentina

United States

Australia, Brazil China, European Union,
India, Republic of Korea

SPS

31 August 2015

WTO
China –
HP-SSST
(Japan)

WT/DS454/R

China –
HP-SSST (EU)

WT/DS460/R

US – Tuna II
(Mexico)

WT/DS381/RW

WT/DS454/AB

WT/DS460/AB

WT/DS381/RW

Argentina
– Financial
Services

WT/DS453/R

Colombia –
Textiles

WT/DS461/R

Japan

China

European Union, India, Republic of Korea, GATT 1994
Russian Federation, Kingdom of Saudi
ADP
Arabia, Turkey, United States

28 October 2015

European Union

China

India, Japan, Republic of Korea, Russian
Federation, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
Turkey, United States

GATT 1994

28 October 2015

Mexico

United States

Australia, Canada, China, European
Union, Guatemala, Japan, Republic of
Korea, New Zealand, Norway, Thailand

GATT 1994

Argentina

Australia, Brazil, China, Ecuador,
European Union, Guatemala, Honduras,
India, Oman, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, United States

Panama

Panama

Colombia

ADP

TBT

GATT 1994
GATS

3 December 2015

Panel report
circulated
30 September
2015
[Appeal ﬁled
27 October 2015]

China, Ecuador, El Salvador, European
Union, Guatemala, Honduras, Philippines, GATT 1994
United States

Panel report
circulated
27 November
2015

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes

110

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

Director-General’s speech to the DSB
On 28 October 2015, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
addressed the DSB on the challenges faced by the dispute
settlement system. He said that the increased breadth and
complexity of disputes over the last 20 years have changed the
face of WTO dispute settlement completely. He acknowledged
that the dispute settlement system is highly efﬁcient and faster
than other international adjudicatory systems. Nevertheless,
WTO members still faced delays as their disputes progressed
through the system.

In addition, DG Azevêdo said he had asked Deputy
Director-General Karl Brauner “to engage with delegations
to gather views … on improving the functioning of the system
further, bearing in mind the budgetary constraints and
headcount limitation imposed by members”.

Dispute
settlement

DG Azevêdo noted that he had nearly doubled the number of
lawyer posts in the three legal divisions since he had taken
ofﬁce – from 30 to 57. But ﬁnding people with the knowledge
and experience required to lead teams supporting Appellate
Body members and dispute settlement panels had not always
been easy. The DG noted that it seemed extremely unlikely
that the high volume of casework was just a temporary surge,
as 2015 had turned out to be the busiest year on record,
with an average of 30 active panels per month.

DG Azevêdo pointed out that many disputes in recent times
have been in the area of trade remedies. As a result of this
demand in the area of trade remedies, some disputes ended
up in a queue waiting for WTO Secretariat staff to become
free from other cases to work on them. The Secretariat
was focused on recruiting and developing expertise in the
trade remedies area, DG Azevêdo said. The Secretariat was
exploring other ways of reducing the queue, such as creating
a single, ﬂexible pool of junior lawyers available to assist all
dispute settlement panels instead of having lawyers assigned
to one division and only working on the disputes handled by
that division.

Dispute settlement activity in 2015
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

111

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Appellate Body
The Appellate Body had a busy year in 2015, issuing eleven Appellate Body reports in seven
distinct matters. As of the end of 2015, the Appellate Body had circulated 138 reports. Three
arbitration proceedings concerning the reasonable period of time for implementation of
Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) recommendations and rulings were carried out in 2015. The
DSB appointed two Appellate Body members, Ujal Singh Bhatia of India and Thomas Graham
of the United States, for second four-year terms.

Efficiencies in appeal proceedings
In the face of an increasing workload, the Appellate Body
has undertaken various efforts to ensure the high quality of
its reports and the completion of appellate proceedings in as
short a time as possible. These efforts include revising internal
processes and adopting, on a trial basis, a new practice
regarding executive summaries of the arguments submitted
by  participants and third-party participants.
The “Guidelines in Respect of Executive Summaries of
Written Submissions in Appellate Proceedings” seeks to allow
WTO members to summarize their positions and supporting
arguments in their own words while encouraging a degree of
harmonization in the structure and length of such summaries.
The Appellate Body now requests the participants and
third-party participants wishing to ﬁle a written submission in
an appeal to submit an executive summary of their submission
at the same time. The length of each summary is limited to 250
words or 10 per cent of the total word count of the submission.
Rather than using the executive summaries to assist in
drafting its own description of the participants’ arguments,
the Appellate Body now includes these executive summaries
as an addendum to its reports. This ensures that members’
positions are reﬂected in their own words in Appellate Body
reports. It also enables the Appellate Body to make optimal

Background on the Appellate Body
The Appellate Body consists of seven members
appointed by the Dispute Settlement Body.
Each member is appointed for a term of four
years, with the possibility of being appointed for
one further four-year term. Three members of
the Appellate Body hear an appeal of a panel’s
ruling. Any party to a dispute may appeal the panel
report to the Appellate Body. The appeal is limited
to issues of law covered in the panel report and
legal interpretations developed by the panel.

use of its limited resources. This new approach has been
implemented, on a trial basis, starting with the appeals in
“Peru – Agricultural Products” and “China – High Performance
Stainless Steel Seamless Tubes (HP-SSST) from Japan” plus
“China – HP-SSST (EU)”.
The Appellate Body is also considering whether adopting
limits to the length of written submissions could allow for
better management of appellate proceedings and reduce
the workload for the Appellate Body and users of the dispute
settlement system. In October 2015 the Appellate Body
initiated discussions with WTO members on this issue,
including whether and how such limits might affect: (i) the
number of issues that participants may choose to appeal
and the number of arguments they raise in their written
submissions; (ii) the focus of submissions on the key issues on
appeal; (iii) the quality and clarity of the participants’ written
submissions; and (iv) the ability of the participants to present
their cases and exercise their due process rights before
the Appellate Body.
The Appellate Body has suggested that WTO members may
wish to consider whether it would be appropriate to adopt
one general limit on the length of all written submissions in
all appeals and, if so, what this limit should be. Alternatively,
if limits should be set on a case-by-case basis, the Appellate
Body has invited WTO members to consider objective criteria
on how such limits should be determined. These criteria could
take into account: (i) the length of the corresponding panel
report; (ii) the number of distinct claims addressed in the
panel report; or (iii) the number of issues raised in an appeal
or cross-appeal. To date, three WTO members have posted
comments addressing these questions in a dedicated section
of the WTO members’ website.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

112

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

Appeals

Figure 3: Number of notices of appeal filed, 1995 to 2015

Eight panel reports concerning seven matters were
appealed in 2015 (see Figure 3 and Table 5). Eight reports
were circulated to members (see Figure 4 and Table 6).
In addressing the appeals, the Appellate Body clariﬁed several
issues of systemic signiﬁcance. These included issues arising
under the Anti-Dumping Agreement, the Agreement on
Agriculture, the general exceptions in Article XX of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) 1994, the Technical
Barriers to Trade Agreement, the Sanitary and Phytosanitary
Measures Agreement and the disciplines governing subsidies
and countervailing duties.

1995

0

1996

4

1997

6

1998

8

1999

9

2000

13

2001

9

2002

7

2003

6

2004

5

2005

10

2006

8

5

2007

4

2008

8 reports were circulated by
the Appellate Body in 2015,
the same number as in 2014.

13

2009

3

2010

3

2011

9

2012

5

2013

2

2014

13

2015

8

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

Other appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an other
appeal

Panel reports appealed

Date of appeal

Appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an appeal

United States – Anti-Dumping Measures on Certain Shrimp
from Viet Nam

6 January 2015

Viet Nam

WT/DS429/5

No other appeal

-

India – Measures Concerning the Importation of Certain
Agricultural Products

26 January 2015

India

WT/DS430/8

No other appeal

-

Peru – Additional Duty on Imports of Certain Agricultural
Products

25 March 2015

Peru

WT/DS457/7

Guatemala

WT/DS457/8

China – Measures Imposing Anti-Dumping Duties on
High-Performance Stainless Steel Seamless Tubes
(“HP-SSST”) from Japan*

20 May 2015

Japan

WT/DS454/7

China

WT/DS454/8

China – Measures Imposing Anti-Dumping Duties on
High-Performance Stainless Steel Seamless Tubes
(“HP-SSST”) from the European Union*

20 May 2015

China

WT/DS460/7

European Union

WT/DS460/8

United States – Measures Concerning the Importation,
Marketing and Sale of Tuna and Tuna Products – Recourse to
Article 21.5 of the DSU by Mexico

5 June 2015

United States

WT/DS381/24

Mexico

WT/DS381/25

European Communities – Deﬁnitive Anti-Dumping Measures
on Certain Iron or Steel Fasteners from China – Recourse to
Article 21.5 of the DSU by China

9 September 2015

European Union

WT/DS397/21

China

WT/DS397/22

Argentina – Measures Relating to Trade in Goods and
Services

27 October 2015

Panama

WT/DS453/7

Argentina

WT/DS453/8

* Appellate Body reports concerning disputes with the same title were circulated as a single document.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

113

Dispute
settlement

Table 5: Appeals filed in 2015

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Members of the Appellate
Body as of 31 December
2015, from left to right:
Ujal Singh Bhatia, Peter
Van den Bossche,
Shree Baboo Chekitan
Servansing, Thomas
R. Graham, Yuejiao Zhang,
Seung Wha Chang
and Ricardo RamírezHernández (Chair of the
Appellate Body in 2015).

Figure 4: Number of Appellate Body reports circulated,
1995 to 2015*

Reappointment of two
Appellate Body members

1995

The ﬁrst four-year terms of Ujal Singh Bhatia and Thomas
Graham expired on 10 December 2015. Mr Bhatia and
Mr Graham both expressed their interest to be reappointed for
a second four-year term. The Chair of the DSB, Harald Neple
(Norway), undertook informal consultations with interested
delegations. In the light of these consultations, the DSB
decided, at its meeting on 25 November 2015, to reappoint
Mr Bhatia and Mr Graham for a second four-year term starting
on 11 December 2015.

0

1996

2

1997

6

1998

7

1999

10

2000

10

2001

9

2002

9

2003

6

2004

As of 31 December 2015, the seven Appellate Body
members were:

5

2005

9

2006

› Ujal Singh Bhatia (India) (2011-19)

6

2007

› Seung Wha Chang (Republic of Korea) (2012-16)

5

2008

› Thomas R. Graham (United States) (2011-19) – Chair of the
Appellate Body in 2016

12

2009

4

2010

› Ricardo Ramírez-Hernández (Mexico) (2009-17)

1

2011

› Shree Baboo Chekitan Servansing (Mauritius) (2014-18)

7

2012

› Peter Van den Bossche (Belgium) (2009-17)

9

2013

2

› Yuejiao Zhang (China) (2008-16)

2014

8

2015

8

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

* Appellate Body reports concerning disputes with the same title were circulated
as a single document.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

114

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

Other
appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an other
appeal

Circulation
date of report

Panel reports appealed

Date of appeal

Appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an appeal

Argentina – Measures Affecting the
Importation of Goods*

26 September 2014

Argentina

WT/DS438/15

European Union

WT/DS438/16

15 January 2015

Argentina – Measures Affecting the
Importation of Goods*

26 September 2014

Argentina

WT/DS444/14

-

-

15 January 2015

Argentina – Measures Affecting the
Importation of Goods*

26 September 2014

Argentina

WT/DS445/14

Japan

WT/DS445/15

15 January 2015

United States – Certain Country of
Origin Labelling (COOL) Requirements
– Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by
Canada *

22 August 2014

United States

WT/DS384/29

Canada

WT/DS384/30

18 May 2015

United States – Certain Country of
Origin Labelling (COOL) Requirements
– Recourse to Article 21.5 of the DSU by
Mexico*

22 August 2014

United States

WT/DS386/28

Mexico

WT/DS386/29

18 May 2015

United States – Anti-Dumping Measures on
Certain Shrimp from Viet Nam

6 January 2015

Viet Nam

WT/DS429/5

-

-

7 April 2015

India – Measures Concerning the
Importation of Certain Agricultural Products

26 January 2015

India

WT/DS430/8

-

-

4 June 2015

Peru – Additional Duty on Imports of
Certain Agricultural Products

25 March 2015

Peru

WT/DS457/7

Guatemala

WT/DS457/8

20 July 2015

China – Measures Imposing Anti-Dumping
Duties on High-Performance Stainless
Steel Seamless Tubes (“HP-SSST”) from
Japan*

20 May
2015

Japan

WT/DS454/7

China

WT/DS454/8

14 October 2015

China – Measures Imposing Anti-Dumping
Duties on High-Performance Stainless
Steel Seamless Tubes (“HP-SSST”) from
the European Union*

20 May 2015

China

WT/DS460/7

European Union

WT/DS460/8

14 October 2015

United States

WT/DS381/24

Mexico

WT/DS381/25

20 November 2015

United States – Measures Concerning the
Importation, Marketing and Sale of Tuna and
5 June 2015
Tuna Products: Recourse to Article 21.5 of
the DSU by Mexico

* Appellate Body reports concerning disputes with the same title were circulated as a single document.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

115

Dispute
settlement

Table 6: Appellate Body reports circulated in 2015

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

Supporting development and
building trade capacity
>

At the Tenth Ministerial Conference, ministers extended a waiver
granting preferential treatment to service suppliers from least-developed
countries (LDCs). They also took a decision on “rules of origin” to make
it easier for LDC exports to qualify for preferential market access.

>

The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), launched by the United Nations in
September 2015, place significant emphasis on the role that trade can play in
boosting growth, tackling poverty and promoting sustainable development. Through
its decision to abolish agricultural export subsidies, taken at the Tenth Ministerial
Conference in December, the WTO is already fulfilling a key target of the second SDG.

>

The Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade, which took place at
the WTO in July 2015, brought together over 1,500 delegates to
discuss ways of reducing trade costs so that developing countries
can participate more fully in the multilateral trading system. It
also saw the launch of phase two of the Enhanced Integrated
Framework, which provides essential practical support to LDCs.

>

The WTO organized 321 technical assistance activities in
2015 to help improve understanding of WTO agreements
and multilateral trade. Some 14,900 participants benefited
from these activities, up from 14,700 in 2014.

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

Trade and development

118

Least-developed countries

120

Small economies

122

Aid for Trade

123

Spotlight: Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade

126

Enhanced Integrated Framework

128

Standards and Trade Development Facility 130
132
Supporting development
and building trade capacity

Technical cooperation and training

Background on
on supporting
outreach development
and
building
trade
capacity
The WTO maintains regular
dialogue
with WTO
non-governmental
organizations,
The
aims to help developing
parliamentarians,
other
international
countries
build their
trade
capacity and
organizations,
the media
the general
allows
them a longer
timeand
to implement
publicagreements.
to enhance cooperation
trade
Hundreds ofand
training
raise awareness
of trade
issues.
courses
are organized
each
year for
ofﬁcials from developing countries.

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Trade and development
In the Committee on Trade and Development, key themes were duty-free and quota-free (DFQF)
market access for least-developed countries (LDCs) and the participation of developing
countries in the multilateral trading system. The Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi
reaffirmed ministers’ commitment to addressing the “marginalization” of LDCs in international
trade. Ministers also took decisions of specific benefit to LDCs, including enhanced preferential
rules of origin and preferential treatment for LDC services providers. The Committee agreed
that the WTO Secretariat should update its report on the implementation of special and
differential treatment provisions in WTO agreements and decisions.

I

n 2015 the Committee on Trade and Development continued
its consideration of duty-free and quota-free (DFQF)
market access for least-developed countries (LDCs) and
held its annual review of steps taken by members to provide
such access. It was aided by a report prepared by the WTO
Secretariat, which showed that nearly all developed countries
provide either full or signiﬁcant DFQF market access to LDC
products. It recommended that members introducing or
improving DFQF market access for LDCs provide detailed
information to the WTO in order to enhance transparency.
In addition, a special meeting of the Committee was convened
to discuss DFQF-related issues.
A number of proposals were considered in the context of the
mandate from the WTO’s Eighth Ministerial Conference in
2011 for the Committee to undertake focused work on the link
between trade and development. The Committee agreed to a
proposal from Ecuador for the WTO Secretariat to periodically
update its information on the implementation of special and
differential treatment (S&D) provisions in WTO agreements
and decisions. Such provisions range from increasing trade
opportunities for developing countries and LDCs to granting
longer transition periods for the implementation of WTO
agreements and providing technical assistance.

Background on trade and development
The Committee on Trade and Development is
the focal point for the coordination of all work
on trade and development issues in the WTO.
The Committee deals with a variety of issues, including
all developmental issues, technical cooperation
and training, and notiﬁcations under the Enabling
Clause, which allows developed countries to give
more favourable treatment to developing countries.

The Committee held two dedicated sessions on the
monitoring mechanism on special and differential treatment.
The mechanism, agreed at the Ninth Ministerial Conference in
Bali in 2013, acts as a focal point within the WTO to analyse
and review the implementation of S&D in WTO agreements
and decisions. In a session dedicated to preferential trade
arrangements (PTAs), members considered Chile’s DFQF
market access scheme for LDCs. The scheme, notiﬁed to the
Committee in 2014, sets customs duties at zero per cent for
imports of goods originating from LDCs, excluding imports of
wheat, wheat ﬂour and sugar.
The WTO Secretariat issued a report as part of the
Committee’s continuous review of the participation of
developing countries in the multilateral trading system.
It showed that developing economies’ merchandise trade grew
faster than world trade in both 2013 and 2014. South-South
(developing country-developing country) trade expanded to
represent an ever increasing share of developing economies’
exports (53.9 per cent in 2014). Between 2012 and 2014,
the share rose by six percentage points, recording stronger
growth than trade with developed economies.
In addition, the Committee received a report on the 49th
session of the Joint Advisory Group (JAG) of the International
Trade Centre (ITC). The JAG is the policy-making body of
the ITC, the trade promotion agency for developing countries
jointly sponsored by the WTO and the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). The ITC’s
work focuses on assisting small and medium-sized enterprises
in developing countries.

Notifications on market access
In 2015 the Committee received notiﬁcations, under the
Enabling Clause (see page 86), concerning the generalized
system of preferences (GSP) schemes of the European Union
and Japan. GSP schemes allow developed countries to grant
preferential tariffs to imports from developing countries.
In addition, Thailand notiﬁed to the Committee its DFQF

Trade and development
www.wto.org/development

118

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

Technical cooperation and training
The Committee took note of the 2014 annual report on
technical assistance and training. The WTO Secretariat
undertook 273 technical assistance activities in 2014, both in
Geneva and in various WTO member and observer countries.
Overall, close to 14,700 participants were trained during
the year, an increase of 7 per cent compared with 2013.
Participation in face-to-face activities was lower, but this
reduction was more than compensated for by the growth in
online courses, which for the ﬁrst time accounted for more than
50 per cent of the participants (see page 134).
The Committee adopted the biennial technical assistance and
training plan for 2016 and 2017, which deﬁnes the priorities
for the WTO Secretariat. The plan anticipates that the WTO
will maintain approximately the same level of activity as over
the previous three years. At the same time, the Secretariat
will strive to identify ways of improving cost efﬁciency and will
focus on quality as opposed to quantity to achieve the desired
results. Information on an external evaluation of the WTO’s
technical assistance activities, to be performed in 2016,
was provided to the Committee.

Ministerial declaration

the “marginalization” of LDCs in international trade and to
improving their effective participation in the multilateral trading
system. They said that they would ensure that all issues of
speciﬁc interest to LDCs be pursued on a priority basis,
“with a view to strengthening them, making them commercially
meaningful and, when appropriate, legally binding”. Ministers
also adopted speciﬁc decisions on enhanced preferential
rules of origin for LDCs and preferential rules for LDC services
providers (see below).

Sustainable Development Goals
In September 2015 the United Nations approved a set of
sustainable development goals (SDGs) – part of the 2030
UN Agenda for Sustainable Development – to mobilize action
over the next 15 years towards ending poverty and hunger,
protecting the world from environmental degradation and
fostering prosperous, peaceful, just and inclusive societies.
The SDGs follow on from the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs), a set of eight goals that UN members agreed to
achieve by 2015.
The integration of developing countries into regional and global
markets is a central theme in the SDGs. To help achieve this,
the SDGs put signiﬁcant emphasis on the role that trade
can play in speciﬁc SDG goals on boosting growth, tackling
poverty and promoting sustainable development. For example,
SDG 17 – on strengthening the global partnership for
sustainable development – contains a separate section on
trade, including a commitment to promoting a “universal,
rules-based, open, non-discriminatory and equitable
multilateral trading system” under the WTO.

At the Nairobi Ministerial Conference in December 2015,
ministers declared that they strongly commit to addressing

Trade and development
www.wto.org/development
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

119

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

market access scheme for LDCs, while India provided updated
information on its duty-free tariff preference scheme for LDCs.
With regard to regional trade agreements, notiﬁcations under
the Enabling Clause were made concerning the agreement
between Singapore and the Gulf Cooperation Council and
the agreement between Mauritius and Pakistan.

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Least-developed countries
The review of market access for least-developed
countries (LDCs) was a central feature of the work
of the Sub-Committee on LDCs in 2015.
The Sub-Committee monitored WTO technical
assistance and training for LDCs and the activities of
the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF). It also
reviewed progress in the accessions of LDCs. As part
of the WTO’s 20th anniversary commemoration,
a special event was organized on least-developed
countries. The Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi
took three important decisions for LDCs: on
preferential rules of origin, on preferential treatment
for LDC services providers, and on cotton.

Market access for LDCs
Market access for least-developed countries featured
prominently in the three meetings of the Sub-Committee on
LDCs in 2015. The WTO Secretariat’s annual report on LDC
trade and market access focused on developments since the
establishment of the WTO.
Since 1995, LDC exports of goods and services have
grown by an annual average of 12.6 per cent, higher than
the 11.3 per cent growth for developing economies overall.
However, the participation of LDCs in global trade remains
low, at 1.23 per cent of world trade in 2013. Trade between
developing countries has become more important, with the
share of LDC exports to developing countries increasing
from 30 per cent in 1995 to 57 per cent in 2014. The study
also showed that export concentration continues to be
a characteristic of LDC trade, with merchandise exports
depending on a few primary commodities and services exports
on tourism.

Background on least-developed
countries (LDCs)
The Sub-Committee on LDCs was established in
July 1995 as a subsidiary body to the Committee on
Trade and Development to address issues of interest
to LDCs. Since the Doha Ministerial Conference
in 2001, the Sub-Committee has focused on the
implementation of the WTO work programme for
LDCs, which looks at a number of systemic issues
of importance to them, such as market access,
technical assistance and accession to the WTO.

12.6 %

12.6%
Since 1995,
LDC exports of
goods and services
have grown by an
annual average of
12.6 per cent.

The LDCs recognized the progress made but also expressed
concern about their low percentage share of world exports
and the dependence of LDCs’ export revenues on the price of
oil. The LDCs underlined the importance of efforts by WTO
members to bring into operation the LDC services waiver,
which allows members to accord preferential treatment to
services suppliers from LDCs (see below and page 74).
WTO members considered the notiﬁcation of the duty-free,
quota-free (DFQF) scheme by Thailand, the sixth developing
country to notify such a scheme in favour of LDCs. Thailand’s
DFQF scheme came into force in April 2015 and provides
LDCs with DFQF market access on 73 per cent of Thailand’s
tariff lines.

Technical assistance and capacity building
The Sub-Committee monitored the progress of WTO
trade-related technical assistance provided to LDCs as well
as other capacity-building initiatives in which the WTO is
involved, such as the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF)
(see page 128).
LDCs continue to receive priority in the delivery of WTO
trade-related technical assistance and have beneﬁted from
48 per cent of such activities in recent years. A number of
technical assistance products are speciﬁcally geared to LDCs,
such as three-week introduction courses for LDCs, advanced
thematic courses, and various internship programmes at the
WTO and LDC missions (see page 134).
At two meetings of the Sub-Committee, the EIF Secretariat
provided updates on the EIF’s work. Phase two of the EIF
ofﬁcially started on 1 January 2016 (see page 128) and will run
until the end of 2022. The EIF is a unique global partnership
dedicated to mobilizing trade for LDC development. The LDCs
highlighted EIF success stories and encouraged development
partners to support phase two. They also underlined that
national trade priorities should drive the activities of the EIF.

Accession of LDCs to the WTO
The WTO Secretariat briefed members on key WTO
accession activities and on the state of play in the eight
accession working parties involving LDCs (Afghanistan,
Bhutan, Comoros, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Liberia, Sudan

Least-developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs

120

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

and Sao Tomé and Principe). The LDCs called for a swift
conclusion of ongoing LDC accessions and suggested a
review of the results of accessions vis-à-vis the strengthened
LDC accession guidelines adopted in 2012. At the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference in December 2015, ministers
approved the accessions of both Afghanistan and Liberia,
bringing the number of LDC accessions since 1995 to nine
(see pages 25-6).

LDC group retreat
The LDCs reported on a retreat of the LDC group held in
February 2015, with the participation of Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo. At the retreat, LDCs discussed various
issues, including how to build on decisions taken at the Ninth
Ministerial Conference in Bali 2013. These decisions included
a call to developed countries to improve their DFQF coverage
as well as an invitation to those developing countries ready to
do so to provide DFQF market access to LDC products.
Following a proposal by the LDCs, WTO members agreed
that the Secretariat would prepare a factual compilation of the
progress made in the implementation of ministerial declarations
and decisions in favour of LDCs.

Discussions revealed progress in domestic reform initiatives
undertaken by beneﬁciaries of cotton development assistance.
Nevertheless, African cotton-producing countries remain
vulnerable to price volatility and high production costs.
At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, ministers
reafﬁrmed the importance of the development assistance
aspects of cotton, and promised continued engagement in
the Consultative Mechanism.
Ministers underscored that the linkage between the Aid for
Trade initiative (see page 123) and the development aspects
of cotton should be reinforced to help formulate, on the basis
of priorities identiﬁed by LDC cotton producers, integrated
programmes to be submitted to development partners.
Ministers stressed the vital importance of the cotton sector to
LDCs. On market access, they called for cotton from LDCs to
be given DFQF access to the markets of developed countries
— and to those of developing countries able to do so — from
1 January 2016.
Regarding domestic subsidy programmes, ministers
acknowledged WTO members had made reforms but
stressed that more remained to be done. They also decided
that all cotton export subsidies (see page 36) be immediately
prohibited by developed countries and by developing countries
at a later date.

WTO 20 th anniversary event on LDCs

Participants reviewed the progress made in integrating LDCs
into the multilateral trading system and discussed how the
WTO could help LDCs overcome the remaining challenges.
DG Azevêdo said there was a need to “go further, faster” to
integrate LDCs more effectively into the trading system.

Cotton, development assistance
Two rounds of the Director-General’s Consultative Framework
Mechanism on Cotton were held, in July and November.
The mechanism reviews cotton-speciﬁc assistance and
infrastructure-support programmes or other assistance
related to the cotton sector. Enhanced coordination between
cotton development assistance providers and recipients was
noted. Progress was also noted in the implementation of
commitments. The latest data shows that US$ 226 million had
been committed in cotton-speciﬁc development assistance,
of which US$ 102 million had been disbursed.

Ministerial decisions on services and rules
of origin
At the Nairobi Ministerial Conference, ministers extended the
waiver under which WTO members may grant preferential
treatment to LDC services suppliers. The waiver, adopted
in December 2011, runs 15 years. The Nairobi ministerial
decision extends this an additional four years, or until
31 December 2030 (see page 74). To date, 22 WTO members
have submitted notiﬁcations granting preferences to LDC
services and service suppliers.
Ministers also expanded on a decision they took in Bali in
2013 on preferential rules of origin for LDCs. The Bali decision
set out, for the ﬁrst time, multilaterally agreed guidelines to
help make it easier for LDC exports to qualify for preferential
market access. In Nairobi, ministers provided more detailed
directions on issues such as how to determine when a product
qualiﬁes as “made in an LDC” and when inputs from other
sources can be “cumulated” — or combined together — into
the consideration of origin. It calls on preference-granting
members to consider allowing the use of non-originating
materials up to 75 per cent of the ﬁnal value of the product.
The decision also calls on preference-granting members to
consider simplifying documentary and procedural requirements
related to origin.

Least-developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

121

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

As part of the commemoration of the WTO’s 20th anniversary,
the WTO Secretariat organized on 12 October 2015 an event
entitled “Twenty Years of Supporting the Integration of Least
Developed Countries into the Multilateral Trading System”.
The event was opened by DG Azevêdo and the Secretary
General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) Mukhisa Kituyi.

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Small economies
The Committee on Trade and Development held
two dedicated sessions in 2015 on issues raised
by small, vulnerable economies (SVEs). It carried
out ministerial instructions to examine the impact
of WTO rules on small economies and the
trade-related constraints they face, and began
work on the challenges and opportunities
experienced by small economies in linking into
global value chains. At the Tenth Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi, ministers instructed the
Committee to begin work on the challenges small
economies experience in reducing trade costs.
Small, vulnerable economies are those WTO members
that account for only a small percentage of world trade.
WTO members recognize that these economies, while not
forming an ofﬁcial sub-category of members, face speciﬁc
challenges due to their size and the distances that can
separate them from their key trading partners.
At the Nairobi Ministerial Conference, ministers instructed
the Committee to consider in dedicated sessions the
proposals submitted by SVEs and where possible to make
recommendations to the General Council. They took note of
a revised compilation paper in which the WTO Secretariat
detailed progress made on proposals submitted since 2002.
These include proposals made by SVEs in the Doha Round
negotiating groups and in other WTO bodies, mainly regarding
agriculture, industrial goods, services, rules (including ﬁsheries
subsidies) and trade facilitation.
Ministers agreed that the dedicated session continue its work
on the challenges and opportunities experienced by small

economies when linking into global value chains in trade in
goods and services. They requested the WTO Secretariat to
examine the challenges which small economies experience in
their efforts to reduce trade costs, particularly in the area of
trade facilitation.
Ministers reafﬁrmed their commitment “to continue to address
in every area of WTO work, in a substantive and meaningful
manner, the needs of small, vulnerable economies (SVEs) and
to favourably consider the adoption of such measures as would
facilitate their fuller integration into the multilateral trading
system”. Ministers also said they would take into account the
needs of SVEs in all areas of negotiations, without creating a
sub-category of WTO members.

Dedicated sessions
Two dedicated sessions were held in 2015. At the session
on 5 June, the WTO Secretariat presented a research
paper, “Challenges and Opportunities experienced by Small
Economies when linking into Global Value Chains in Trade in
Goods and Services”. Members exchanged views on the paper
and its ﬁndings.
The paper showed that by specializing in speciﬁc tasks or
stages within the value chain, small economies can, to a
certain extent, mitigate their lack of economies of scale and
realize economic beneﬁts. Global value chains can further help
small economies diversify their export structure away from
primary commodities towards manufacturing and services.
However, this is by no means an automatic process, it added.
At the session on 29 October, WTO members took an
in-depth look at how small economies are integrating into the
agrifood and seafood value chains. Presentations were made
by representatives of the International Trade Centre and the
Standards and Trade Development Facility (see page 130).

Background on small economies
The Committee on Trade and Development – in
dedicated session – oversees work on small economies
and monitors the progress of proposals from small,
vulnerable economies in the various WTO bodies and
Doha Round negotiating groups. Small economies
are mainly but not exclusively small island states.

Small economies
www.wto.org/smalleconomies

122

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

Aid for Trade
Aid for Trade financing maintained its upward trend, with the latest available figures – for 2013
– showing an increase in commitments of US$ 1.8 billion compared with the previous year. The
Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade was held on 30 June-2 July with the theme “Reducing trade
costs for inclusive, sustainable growth”. In December the Tenth Ministerial Conference
recognized the continued need for the WTO-led Aid for Trade initiative, with priority to be
given to least-developed countries (LDCs).

2002-05 avg.

25.3

2006-08 avg.

33.2

2009-11 avg.

44.0

2012

53.6

2013

55.4

2006-08 avg.

23.6

2009-11 avg.

33.2

2012

38.3

2013

41.6

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

Trade policy and regulations
Economic infrastructure
Building productive capacity
Source: OECD/WTO publication Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015: Reducing Trade
Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth

Work programme

Background on Aid for Trade
The Aid for Trade initiative was launched at the WTO’s
Sixth Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong in 2005.
It aims to enhance growth and reduce poverty in
developing countries, particularly least-developed
countries, so that they can better integrate into the
multilateral trading system. Aid for Trade assists these
countries in developing the trade-related skills and
infrastructure needed to implement WTO agreements
and beneﬁt from increased market access.

The Committee on Trade and Development held three formal
Aid for Trade sessions in 2015 at which WTO members
discussed progress in the implementation of the 2014-15 work
programme, “Reducing trade costs for inclusive, sustainable
growth”, and organizations provided updates on their Aid for
Trade work. Issues addressed included global value chains,
infrastructure development, engagement of South-South
(developing country-developing country) partners, private
sector engagement, sustainable development, regional trade
integration, trade facilitation, and monitoring Aid for Trade
ﬂows and measuring results.
Three dedicated workshops were held. A workshop
in February showed how developing countries’ trade
performance and economic growth are hampered by poor
infrastructure and discussed the initiatives being taken to
overcome this constraint.

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

123

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

The Aid for Trade initiative encourages developing countries
and donors to recognize the role that trade can play in
development. In particular, the initiative seeks to mobilize
resources to address the trade-related constraints identiﬁed
by developing and least-developed countries.

Figure 1: Aid for Trade commitments and disbursements
in US$ billion (2013 constant) by category
Commitments

id for Trade ﬁnancing has continued to grow, despite
the ﬁscal challenges faced by many donor countries
and regional partners. The most recent ﬁgures showed
that in 2013 Aid for Trade ﬂows for developing countries
reached US$ 55.4 billion, over US$ 30 billion more than
the 2002-05 baseline average. Aid for Trade commitments
to LDCs amounted to nearly 33 per cent of the total in
2013, an increase of 8.3 percentage points over 2012.
The mediumterm outlook is for a continued increase in Aid
for Trade ﬂows. Figures 1 and 2 provide a breakdown of
category-speciﬁc and regional Aid for Trade commitments.

Disbursements

A

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity
Figure 2: Aid for Trade commitments and disbursements by region in US$ billion (2013 constant)
25
10

20

5
0

5
0

15
Europe

10
5

America

0

25

Asia

20
15
2002-2005 avg.
2006-2008 avg.
2009-2011 avg.
2012
2013

10

5

5

0

0

Oceania

Africa

Source: OECD/WTO publication Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015: Reducing Trade Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth

The WTO and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) held a joint workshop in May on
the 2015 Aid for Trade monitoring and evaluation exercise.
Four agencies – the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF),
the International Trade Centre, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the World Bank
Group – contributed to the monitoring exercise, together
with the World Economic Forum. The exercise was based on
self-assessment questionnaires sent to developing countries
and LDCs, donors, regional economic communities and
the private and public sectors. An analysis of the results of
the monitoring exercise was provided in the OECD-WTO
publication “Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015: Reducing Trade
Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth”, which was launched
at the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade.

• •• FOR• • • • • •
AT A GLANCE
2015
REDUCING TRADE COSTS
FOR INCLUSIVE,
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH

Fifth Global Review
The Fifth Global Review (see pages 126) examined how high
trade costs can negatively affect the ability of developing
countries, and in particular least-developed countries, to fully
beneﬁt from the market access opportunities of the multilateral
trading system.
The three-day meeting attracted over 1,500 delegates to its
18 plenary sessions and 28 side events. Twenty ministers and
deputy ministers from developing countries, over 20 heads
and deputy heads of international agencies and regional
organizations, representatives of 20 private sector companies,
and numerous trade diplomats, experts and academics
debated how Aid for Trade can help support developing
countries in their efforts to overcome the challenges and
constraints they face from high trade costs.
A clear message from the Review was that reducing trade
costs is important for ensuring progress on the SDGs and that
implementing the WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement (see
pages 83) is one of the ways that WTO members can reduce
trade costs.

55.4 billion
Aid for Trade ﬂows for
developing countries reached
US$ 55.4 billion in 2013.

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade

124

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo with Jim
Kim, President of the
World Bank Group
(left), and Angel Gurría,
OECD SecretaryGeneral, at the Fifth
Global Review of
Aid for Trade.

Ministerial support

1,500
Over 1,500 delegates
attended the WTO’s
Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade.

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December
2015, ministers recognized the importance of, and continuing
need for, Aid for Trade and agreed to accord priority to LDC
needs. In consultation with WTO members and partner
organizations, a new work programme on Aid for Trade is
being developed that will provide a framework for activities
in 2016-17. The new work programme will seek to help
developing and least-developed countries play a bigger part
in world trade by reducing trade costs and enhancing access
to global value chains so that they are able to fully exploit their
trade potential.

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

125

-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

Spotlight

Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade
The Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade, held at the WTO in June/July, highlighted how
high trade costs are hampering developing countries’ ability to benefit from market
access opportunities. The Review attracted over 1,500 participants and saw the launch
of a new OECD-WTO co-publication outlining the impact of the Aid for Trade initiative.

T

he Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade on “Reducing
Trade Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth” took place
at the WTO from 30 June to 2 July 2015. It attracted over
1,500 participants to its 18 plenary sessions and 28 side
events. Twenty ministers and deputy ministers from developing
countries, over 20 heads and deputy heads of international
agencies and regional organizations, representatives of 20
private sector companies and numerous trade diplomats,
experts and academics debated how the Aid for Trade initiative
can help developing countries overcome the constraints they
face from high trade costs.
“Many people remain disconnected from the trading system,
or do not feel its full beneﬁts. We must ﬁnd ways to further cut
trade costs, lower trade barriers, reduce distortive subsidies
and increase people’s capacity to trade, so that the poorest
can access more of the beneﬁts that trade can provide,” said
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo in opening the Review.
The WTO-led Aid for Trade initiative provides assistance
to developing countries for trade facilitation – streamlining
customs procedures and cutting red tape – improving

infrastructure and strengthening production capacity. Global
reviews of the initiative are held every two years.
The Review highlighted how high trade costs – due to
transport, inadequate infrastructure or bureaucracy – act as
a barrier and prevent developing countries from integrating
into global value chains and from fully beneﬁting from market
access opportunities of the multilateral trading system.
It highlighted activities undertaken by developing countries,
regional communities and their development partners to
reduce trade costs and looked into how the remaining
challenges could be addressed through the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), a set of global targets to be
achieved by 2030 including eradicating hunger and reducing
inequality (see page 119).
A clear message from the Review was that reducing trade
costs would contribute to meeting the SDGs. Implementing
the WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement (see page 83),
with its provisions for streamlining the ﬂow of goods across
borders, is a concrete step that WTO members could take
to achieve this.

Spotlight: Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/gr5_e

126

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

The debates beneﬁted from the results of an extensive
monitoring and evaluation exercise on the impact of Aid
for Trade carried out by the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the WTO.
This exercise formed the basis for a new OECD-WTO
co-publication, “Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015: Reducing
Trade Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth”, which was
launched on the opening day of the Review.
The publication drew on 111 self-assessments from 62
developing countries (including 30 least-developed countries),
23 bilateral donors, 13 multilateral donors, three providers
of South-South (developing country-developing country)
cooperation and nine regional economic communities/
transport corridors. Moreover, it included 116 case stories
from partner countries, donors, the private sector, academia
and non-governmental organizations to illustrate the barriers
caused by high trade costs and how these obstacles could
be overcome.
For the ﬁrst time, the publication was prepared in collaboration
with four other partner agencies: the Enhanced Integrated
Framework, the International Trade Centre, the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the
World Bank Group, together with the World Economic Forum.

The publication demonstrates that stakeholders remain
actively engaged in Aid for Trade. It notes: “High trade costs
price some country regions, countries and companies out of
export markets, thereby limiting their economic development
opportunities. Trade costs may not explain why some countries
are low income or least developed, but, in combination with
other factors, they do explain why some countries struggle
to grow and exploit their comparative advantages”. Customs
reform, upgrading infrastructure and improving the regulatory
environment are cited as some of the activities that achieve the
best results in reducing trade costs for goods and services.
The publication reveals that Aid for Trade could play an
important part in meeting the UN’s SDGs and highlights that
more could be achieved through a better understanding of
how high trade costs hamper developing countries’ economic
growth and development. It illustrates how well-designed
Aid for Trade activities could help to reduce trade costs in
areas prioritized by partner countries and donors (such as
infrastructure, trade facilitation and non-tariff measures).
Closing the Global Review, DG Azevêdo said: “Aid for Trade
is delivering, but as with any such initiative, we need to remain
ﬂexible and open-minded about how it can do more, and what
the future priorities should be.”

Spotlight: Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/gr5_e
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

127

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

OECD-WTO co-publication

-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Enhanced Integrated
Framework
In 2015, work began on designing Phase Two of the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF)
programme, which aims to help least-developed countries (LDCs) use trade as a tool for
growth, development and poverty reduction. Phase Two, which runs from 2016 to 2022,
was officially launched at the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade in July. An EIF pledging
conference was held in December in Nairobi, when approximately US$ 90 million was
promised. The EIF programme was incorporated into the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).

T

he launch of Phase Two followed a consultative meeting of
the EIF Global Platform in March 2015. This brought
together over 200 representatives from the EIF partnership,
including 50 least-developed countries (LDCs),
23 development partners and eight international agencies. At the
meeting, ideas for Phase Two were discussed, based on
lessons learned from Phase One and the ﬁndings of an
independent evaluation of the programme undertaken in 2014.
Phase Two was endorsed by the EIF partnership in May 2015.
The new programme, which began on 1 January 2016, retains
the core structure of Phase One while strengthening key areas
of EIF work to produce a more dynamic and results-driven EIF
capable of demonstrating increased efﬁciency, effectiveness
and value for money.
Among the key features of the new programme are more
tailored support for more sustainable results, a stronger
partnership between LDCs, EIF donors and EIF partner

Background on the Enhanced
Integrated Framework
The EIF is the only global Aid for Trade programme
dedicated to addressing the trade capacity needs of
LDCs. It is supported by a multi-donor trust fund and
provides ﬁnancial and technical support to LDCs to
help them use trade as a tool for economic growth
and poverty reduction. The EIF is a partnership of
LDCs, donors and partner agencies, including the
WTO, the World Bank, the International Monetary
Fund, the United Nations Development Programme,
the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, the International Trade Centre, the United
Nations World Tourism Organization and United
Nations Industrial Development Organization.

90 million
About US$ 90 million was
promised at an EIF pledging
conference in December.

agencies, greater stakeholder communication at all levels,
a new focus on leveraging additional contributions at the
country level, and stronger governance and programme
management. The aim is for a budget of an estimated
US$ 274-320 million for the seven-year duration of
the programme.
Phase Two was ofﬁcially launched at the Fifth Global Review
of Aid for Trade on 1 July 2015 by the chairs of the EIF
Board and the Steering Committee. Norway was the ﬁrst
donor to announce a pledge for Phase Two, with an offer of
approximately US$ 19 million.
A Phase Two pledging conference was held on 14 December
2015 in Nairobi, just before the start of the Tenth Ministerial
Conference. Hosted by Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
and co-chaired by Australia and Norway, 15 donors
(Australia, Denmark, Estonia, the European Union, Finland,
France, Germany, the Republic of Korea, Luxembourg,
the Netherlands, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Sweden,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom) pledged approximately
US$ 90 million, which will support key Phase Two activities.
The Netherlands joined as a new donor. Many of these donors
committed to make further contributions in the future.

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org

128

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

EIF funding is helping to
facilitate cross-border
trade in Rwanda and to
reduce poverty, especially
for women, who represent
more than two-thirds of all
cross-border traders.

The ﬁrst phase of the EIF came to a close in 2015. In all,
Phase One (2009-15) delivered 141 projects totalling
US$ 140.690 million across 51 countries. Of these projects,
105 supported trade and development capacity while
36 projects aimed to help countries address supply-side
constraints and to increase their ability to trade.
Over the ﬁrst phase, 44 analytical studies were carried out
to help countries identify and address their main constraints
to trade. Trade strategies were formulated and implemented
in 29 LDCs, and trade featured in national development
strategies of 32 countries. Public-private dialogue mechanisms
became active in 32 countries. Government-donor consultation
mechanisms were developed in 30 countries and donor
coordination mechanisms on trade established in 28 countries.
In 2015, further progress was achieved in supporting the
long-term capacity of LDCs to become integrated into the
global economy and to maximize resources to support trade.

Particular progress was made in terms of developing the
institutional and ﬁnancial capacity of LDCs, especially at
the government level.

Global development agenda
The role of the EIF in achieving sustainable development
was recognized by a speciﬁc mention in the United Nations
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) – adopted by the UN General
Assembly on 25 September 2015. Under SDG8, one of the
targets is to “increase aid for trade support for developing
countries, in particular least developed countries, including
through the Enhanced Integrated Framework”. Similarly,
the Third International Conference on Financing for
Development, held in Addis Ababa in July 2015, and known as
the Addis Ababa Agenda, refers to the important role of Aid for
Trade, in particular the EIF, in assisting LDCs.

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

129

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

Completion of Phase One

-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Standards and Trade
Development Facility
The Standards and Trade Development Facility (STDF) continued to assist in the development
and implementation of projects that promote compliance with international food safety, animal
and plant health standards and that facilitate market access. In 2015, the five agencies,
including the WTO, that run the STDF agreed to a new five-year strategy. In addition,
the STDF finalized research into improving the implementation of sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) controls.

A

t the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade in July 2015
(see page 126), the STDF launched a short ﬁlm entitled
“Safe Trade Solutions”. This awareness-raising tool on
sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) issues was launched at a
session on “Effective Implementation of SPS Measures to
Facilitate Safe Trade”, coordinated by the STDF. The session
brought together José Graziano da Silva, Director-General of
the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Monique
Eloit, Deputy Director-General of the World Organisation for
Animal Health (OIE) and Anabel González, Senior Director
in the World Bank Group. The session was moderated by
Keith Rockwell, WTO spokesperson. Government and private
sector representatives also participated in discussing how free
ﬂowing trade can take place alongside robust SPS controls.
The ﬁlm takes a look at what Chile, Peru and Colombia have
done to make goods ﬂow faster across their borders, while
also preventing the spread of pests or diseases among animals
and plants, and ensuring that food is safe for consumers.
The ﬁlm complements research work by the STDF in selected

countries in South East Asia and Southern Africa on how SPS
controls are implemented for agri-food products, based on the
provisions of the SPS Agreement (notably Article 8 and Annex
C on Control, Inspection and Approval Procedures). This work
identiﬁed key needs, opportunities and good practice for
improving the implementation of SPS measures in a way that
facilitates trade and strengthens health protection. The ﬁndings
for Southern Africa (Malawi, South Africa and Zambia) were
published in November 2015. They are available on the STDF
website (www.standardsfacility.org).
The research emphasized that protecting countries against the
entry of risks related to food safety, animal and plant health is a
public good, which requires adequate resources (personnel,
infrastructure, ﬁnancial resources, scientiﬁc and technical
expertise, etc.). SPS authorities in many developing countries
are under-resourced and face huge challenges to effectively
carry out their mandates. Adequate resources are essential to
ensure that core activities are undertaken satisfactorily, without
delay and without conﬂicts of interest.

Background on the Standards and Trade
Development Facility
The STDF is a global partnership that helps developing
countries build their capacity to implement international
sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) standards as a
means to improve human, animal and plant health
and their ability to gain access to markets. This work
contributes to sustainable economic growth, poverty
reduction, food security and environmental protection in
developing countries. Established by the UN Food and
Agriculture Organization (FAO), the World Organisation
for Animal Health (OIE), the World Bank, the World
Health Organization and the WTO, the STDF is
ﬁnanced by voluntary contributions. The WTO provides
the Secretariat and manages the STDF trust fund.

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org

130

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

One of the key recommendations of the research is the
need for governments to periodically take stock of their
SPS measures (as well as the procedures to implement
them) to avoid unnecessarily trade-restrictive regulatory
outcomes. The research also recommends: (i) identifying
concrete ways to reduce fragmentation and duplication in
SPS controls and streamline procedures; (ii) increasing
transparency about existing SPS measures, and the relevant
procedures to implement them; (iii) improving dialogue
among SPS authorities, other border authorities and the
private sector; and (iv) making concerted efforts to implement
risk-based controls and apply relevant international standards
and guidelines.
Together with the Enhanced Integrated Framework
(see page 128), the STDF conducted a joint study that
analyses the coverage of SPS issues in diagnostic trade
integration studies (DTIS), which help countries identify and
address constraints to trade, economic growth and sustainable
development. Following a preliminary review of all DTIS
reports, Cambodia, Tanzania and Senegal were selected for
an in-depth ﬁeld study. The study, which will be published in
2016, identiﬁes good practice for future activities.
The STDF ﬁnalized a practical guide to assist developing
countries in prioritizing SPS investment options. It promotes
more transparent decision-making and encourages dialogue
among public and private stakeholders with an interest in SPS
issues. The guide will become available in early 2016.

Figure 3: Location of STDF projects and project
preparation grants (number)
1% 1%
Middle East Europe

11%
Global

17%
Latin America
and
Caribbean

51%
Africa

19%
Asia and Pacific

Figure 4: Coverage of STDF projects and project
preparation grants (number)
11%
25%

Animal health

General SPS

The STDF actively participated in several conferences, training
workshops and other information sessions and meetings at
international, regional and national levels to promote synergies
in the design and delivery of SPS projects and initiatives.
It continued to report to the WTO’s SPS Committee on its
activities and operations. Reports were also made to the WTO
Committee on Trade and Development (CTD) and the CTD’s
Sub-Committee on Least-Developed Countries (LDCs).

27%
Plant health

Project grants
Five project preparation grants (PPGs) and ﬁve projects
were approved in 2015, bringing the total number of PPGs
and projects funded by the STDF to 70 and 75, respectively.
The projects approved included one on the development of
a global framework for electronic phytosanitary certiﬁcation,
which will enable countries to exchange harmonized
electronic phytosanitary certiﬁcates securely and in a
cost-effective manner.
Of the total number of grants, 51 per cent have been
awarded to sub-Saharan Africa, 19 per cent to Asia and the
Paciﬁc, and 17 per cent to Latin America and the Caribbean
(see Figure 3). On a thematic basis, 37 per cent of projects
and PPGs were dedicated to food safety issues, 27 per cent
to plant health and 11 per cent to animal health (see Figure 4).
Overall, the STDF has devoted 54 per cent of project
resources to LDCs and other low-income countries, exceeding
its target of at least 40 per cent.

New STDF strategy
In March, the FAO, the OIE, the World Bank, the World Health
Organization, the WTO, donor members and developing
country SPS experts agreed on a new ﬁve-year strategy
that will allow the Facility to continue to provide assistance
to developing countries. The strategy highlights STDF’s key
role as a knowledge-sharing platform that supports SPS
capacity building. The annual funding target will be maintained
at US$ 5 million.

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

131

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

37%
Food safety

-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Technical cooperation
and training
The WTO’s Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation (ITTC) undertook 321 technical
assistance activities in 2015 aimed at helping government officials gain a better understanding
of WTO rules and the multilateral trading system. Approximately 14,900 participants benefited
from these training activities, up from 14,700 in 2014. Least-developed countries (LDCs) were
the recipients of 52 per cent of all technical assistance activities. Nearly half of the participants
accessed training through e-learning resources on the WTO’s online platform.

T

he WTO’s training activities are mostly based on a
technical assistance and training plan approved by the
Committee on Trade and Development. The 2014-15 plan
followed a “results-based management approach”, measuring
results to ensure that training is delivered in the most effective
way. Courses are undertaken as part of a “progressive learning
strategy”, meaning that participants beneﬁt from a step-by-step
approach to improving their awareness of trade issues.
Guidelines and benchmarks help to maintain a high standard
of content for all training, consistent teaching methods and
regular evaluation of all technical assistance activities delivered
by the WTO.
The WTO provides training for both generalists and
specialists. Generalists are government ofﬁcials who require
a broad knowledge of many WTO subjects to conduct their
work. This category includes many delegates posted to
missions in Geneva. Specialists are government ofﬁcials who
require detailed knowledge in a speciﬁc area. This includes
ofﬁcials working on a particular issue in a government ministry.
Advanced courses are run on various subjects, including
dispute settlement, trade-related intellectual property rights,
regional trade agreements, sanitary and phytosanitary issues,
trade in services and trade policy analysis. Three

Background on technical cooperation
and training
The Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation
coordinates the WTO’s technical assistance
programmes. Its activities include e-learning, global and
regional training courses, academic programmes and
workshops at national and regional level. The technical
assistance programmes help WTO members
better understand their rights and obligations in the
multilateral trading system. This strengthens countries’
capacity to beneﬁt from participation in the system.

Geneva-based advanced trade policy courses, each one
lasting eight weeks, were held in 2015 for generalists.
The WTO also held a number of regional activities in 2015
aimed at both generalists and specialists. Eight-week regional
trade policy courses were held for generalists in seven regions:
English-speaking Africa, French-speaking Africa, Asia and
the Paciﬁc, the Caribbean, Latin America, Arab and Middle
East countries, and Central and Eastern Europe and Central
Asia. Specialist courses included a workshop on sanitary
and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade
for Englishspeaking African countries held in Kenya, and a
regional workshop on intellectual property and public health
for French-speaking Africa, held in Côte d’Ivoire.
Other specialist courses in 2015 included a course for Latin
America on managing trade contingency measures, held in
the Dominican Republic, a seminar on the Government
Procurement Agreement for Central and Eastern Europe,
Central Asia and the Caucasus, held at the Joint Vienna
Institute, a seminar on agriculture for Arab and Middle East
countries, held in the United Arab Emirates, and the 3rd
Singapore-WTO Policy Dialogue on the world trading system.
The WTO continued to involve international and regional
partners in the delivery of technical assistance activities
to ensure that a regional perspective was included in
the design of the training programmes. The partnership
approach has also been extended to the Academic Support
Programme (see page 164).

52%
Least-developed countries
(LDCs) were the recipients
of 52 per cent of all technical
assistance activities in 2015.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

132

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 136 End-----------------------

Advanced trade
policy course at the
WTO in 2015.

Twenty-one per cent of activities were aimed at African
countries, 14 per cent at Asia and the Paciﬁc, 11 per cent
at Latin America, 8 per cent at Central and Eastern Europe
and Central Asia, and 6 per cent at the Arab and Middle East
regions (see Table 1). The remaining 36 per cent were “global”
activities, mostly held in Geneva, aimed at participants from all
regions. In line with a demand-driven approach, approximately
36 per cent of all activities were delivered at the national level
in countries where a speciﬁc need was identiﬁed.

The number of face-to-face training activities conducted by
the WTO continued to decline slightly in 2015, mainly due to
increased use of e-learning resources and better targeting of
training to meet WTO members’ needs.
LDCs beneﬁted from approximately 52 per cent of all technical
assistance activities, including national activities held in LDCs
and regional and global activities in which LDCs were invited
to participate. Several products have been speciﬁcally created
for LDCs, or have LDCs as a priority. An example is the
intermediate level training course for LDCs held in 2015.

Table 1: Technical assistance activities by region in 2015

Africa
Middle East
Asia and the Paciﬁc
Central and Eastern Europe
and Central Asia
Caribbean
Latin America
Sub-total
Global*
Total

National technical
assistance

Regional

Other
(conferences, etc.)

Global*

Total

37

32%

19

30%

0

0%

12

27%

68

21%

9

8%

9

14%

0

0%

1

2%

19

6%

21

18%

13

20%

0

0%

12

27%

46

14%

16

14%

7

11%

0

0%

3

7%

26

8%

6

5%

4

6%

0

0%

1

2%

11

3%

26

23%

9

14%

0

0%

1

2%

36

11%

115

100%

61

95%

0

0%

30

68%

206

64%

0

0%

3

5%

98

100%

14

32%

115

36%

115

100%

64

100%

98

100%

44

100%

321

100%

* Activities under the “global” category are not targeted at a specific region but include activities such as Geneva-based courses, distance learning,
internship programmes and an advisory role on legal issues.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

133

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

Region

-----------------------Page 137 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Numbers of participants
Participants in training activities in 2015 totalled approximately
14,900 (compared with around 14,700 in 2014). Nearly half of
the participants received training through e-learning resources
on the WTO’s online platform http://ecampus.wto.org.

14,900
About 14,900
government ofﬁcials
beneﬁted from
WTO training in
2015 compared
with around
14,700 in 2014.

The WTO’s e-learning includes 24 certiﬁcated courses on
various general or specialist subjects in the WTO’s three
working languages (English, French and Spanish). In 2015,
a total of 7,523 participants from 145 countries enrolled
for e-learning courses, with Africa providing 38 per cent of
participants, followed by Latin America with 20 per cent,
Asia and the Paciﬁc with 19 per cent, Central and Eastern
Europe and Central Asia with 10 per cent, the Arab and Middle
East region with 9 per cent and the Caribbean and others with
5 per cent.

Internship programmes

Women represented 45 per cent of the participants for all
WTO training courses in 2015. The breakdown by language
shows roughly 60 per cent of participants completing the
training in English, 22 per cent in French and 18 per cent
in Spanish.
Technical assistance was strengthened for countries seeking
to join the WTO (see page 180 and Figure 5), with government
ofﬁcials invited to participate in over 140 technical
assistance events.
Figure 5: Participants in WTO technical assistance
activities in 2015 from countries seeking to join the WTO
Afghanistan

29

Algeria

105

Azerbaijan

38

Bahamas

WTO internship programmes offer government ofﬁcials
hands-on experience on WTO issues, enabling them to
contribute more fully to the economic and social development
of their countries. The Netherlands Trainee Programme,
the Mission Internship Programme, the Regional Coordinator
Internship Programme and the Accession Internship
Programme give priority to applicants from Africa and LDCs,
small and vulnerable economies, and countries in the process
of acceding to the WTO.
In 2015, the majority of ofﬁcials completing the WTO
internship programmes were from Africa and the Asia and
Paciﬁc regions. Seventeen completed the Mission Internship
Programme, 14 the Netherlands Trainee Programme, and nine
the Regional Coordinator Internship Programme and the
Accession Internship Programme.

13

Belarus

72

Bhutan
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Comoros

WTO reference centres

29

The WTO Reference Centres Programme enables government
ofﬁcials, the private sector and academic communities to
access trade-related information and resources available on
the WTO website and trade-related publications to improve
their understanding of WTO issues. Reference centres also
organize trade-related events, training activities and technical
meetings. There are currently 63 active reference centres
around the world.

8
43

Equatorial Guinea

4

Ethiopia

38

Iran

55

Iraq

7

Kazakhstan

17

Lebanese Republic

94

Liberia, Republic of

In 2015, the WTO established nine new reference centres:
seven in Africa (Chad, Lesotho, Cameroon, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea and
Uganda), one in the Middle East (Lebanese Republic) and
one in Central Asia (Kyrgyz Republic).

15

Libya
Sao Tomé and
Principe
Serbia

1
2
12

Seychelles

37

Sudan

71

Syrian Arab Republic

5

Uzbekistan

13

0

20

40

60

80

100

120

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

134

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 138 End-----------------------

Financing technical assistance

Funding from other sources amounts to approximately
one-third of the total budget for technical assistance.
This includes the WTO’s regular budget for Geneva-based
courses and national technical assistance missions
– approximately CHF 4.5 million in 2015 – as well as
contributions from trust funds (the French-Irish Mission
Internship Programme, the Netherlands Trainee Programme,
and the China Programme), which amounted to around
CHF 2.3 million in 2015.

The bulk of the technical assistance programme is ﬁnanced
by the Doha Development Agenda Global Trust Fund, which
receives voluntary contributions from WTO members (see
Table 2). Due to a strong balance carried forward from 2014,
the ﬁnancial position of the fund remained solid in 2015.
The relatively high level of funds carried forward was mainly
due to large contributions being received in the last few
months of 2014. A total of CHF 9.1 million was contributed
by 13 WTO members in 2015 compared with CHF 7.8 million
from 13 countries the previous year.

Table 2: Doha Development Agenda Global Trust Fund (as of 31 December 2015)

Australia
Austria

2010

2011

1,952,400

1,803,600

285,640

258,600

240,200

944,276

1,362,298

Canada
China

2013

2014

2015

Grand total

2,689,900

61,370

2,162,382

8,669,651

243,600

241,400

104,900

1,374,340
2,306,574

200,300

Czech Republic
Denmark

2012

200,300
23,746

23,746

180,019

331,230

321,903

491,063

482,422

400,028

2,206,666

28,932

26,209

23,199

24,160

24,640

24,120

151,260

European Union

1,574,550

1,187,500

1,024,050

1,232,000

317,592

1,658,552

6,994,244

Finland

1,364,000

1,228,000

France

655,500

611,000

600,500

617,000

608,500

434,400

3,526,900

1,438,500

1,237,500

1,198,000

1,233,000

1,203,000

1,060,000

7,370,000

Estonia

Germany

2,592,000

Ireland

409,200

Japan

395,604

395,604

395,604

368,744

312,019

267,413

2,134,988

Republic of Korea

344,400

322,350

334,950

313,600

336,350

346,500

1,998,150

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

240,000

1,472,990

1,472,990

875,000

495,000

4,315,980

Liechtenstein
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Spain
Sweden

409,200

158,000

158,000

1,784,440

1,593,626

467,950

400,050

2,353,920

2,074,322

Switzerland
Chinese Taipei
United States
Grand total

2,438,905

2,287,108

2,163,722

1,161,373

11,429,174
868,000

2,386,480

2,245,600

9,060,322

800,000

800,000

1,600,000

181,400

365,600

184,200
1,002,654

940,580

940,535

851,885

1,127,392

950,400

5,813,446

16,108,999

15,075,383

12,106,625

13,619,060

7,793,406

9,105,068

73,808,541

19

19

14

15

13

13

Number of donors

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

135

Supporting development
and building trade capacity

Contributions (CHF)

-----------------------Page 139 End-----------------------

Outreach
>

The 2015 Public Forum – the WTO’s major outreach activity – attracted
1,300 participants to the three-day event, providing a platform for
discussions under the general theme “Trade works”.

>

On 14 June 2015, the WTO held its fifth Open Day, which was attended by over
3,000 people. Entitled “Merci Genève”, the event provided an opportunity for the WTO
to thank Geneva and its people for hosting the organization over the past 20 years.

>

The WTO increased its cooperation with other intergovernmental organizations,
launching a new co-publication with the World Bank on trade and reducing
poverty, and strengthening its collaboration with the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development by signing a new joint declaration
on promoting trade as a tool for development.

>

The Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi was attended by
over 300 representatives of non-governmental organizations,
some 350 journalists and 23 business organizations.

-----------------------Page 140 End-----------------------

138

Spotlight: Public Forum 2015

140

Contact with parliamentarians

142

Cooperation with other international
organizations

144

Contact with the media

148

Contact with the business community

150

Contact with the public

151

WTO website

151

Social media

152

WTO videos

152

Visiting groups

152

WTO publications

152

Spotlight: WTO Open Day

156

Economic research activities

158

Statistics activities

160

WTO Essay Award for Young Economists

162

Cooperation with academic institutions

163

WTO Chairs Programme

163

Academic Support Programme

164

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non-governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Outreach

Relations with non-governmental
organizations

-----------------------Page 141 End-----------------------

Outreach

Relations with
non-governmental
organizations
In 2015, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) had many opportunities to voice their views
on trade issues and received regular updates on WTO activities. NGOs participated in a
number of WTO events, such as the Public Forum, the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade and
WTO 20th anniversary activities, as well as at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi.
The WTO organized regional workshops for NGOs and provided regular briefings on trade
negotiations and other issues.

T

Conference to be held in the Kenyan capital in December.
Each workshop drew more than 60 people.

Workshops

In October, the WTO and the German foundation
Friedrich-Ebert Stiftung (FES) organized a regional workshop
for Southern African NGOs and business and media
representatives in Cape Town, South Africa. The workshop
looked at Southern African trade perspectives and the
challenges facing this region in the multilateral trading system.
Among the issues discussed were preparations for the Tenth
Ministerial Conference, WTO decision-making, dispute
settlement, trade facilitation, regionalism versus multilateralism,
and food security. Participants from Botswana, Lesotho,
Mauritius, Namibia, Madagascar, Mozambique, South Africa,
Swaziland, Zambia and Zimbabwe took part in the workshop.

he Public Forum is the WTO’s main outreach event
with NGOs. The 2015 Forum, whose theme was “Trade
Works”, was held from 30 September to 2 October (see
page 140). NGOs organized 39 sessions on a wide range of
themes. These included sessions on improving the lives of
East African women, on whether competition policy should
be subject to WTO rules and on the United Nations’ 2030
agenda (see page 119). NGOs also participated in WTO
20th anniversary events, such as “The TBT (technical barriers
to trade) at 20: Reducing Trade Friction from Standards
and Regulations” (see page 64) and “20 Years of Building
Pathways to Sustainable Development” (see page 82).

In September, the WTO organized workshops in Nairobi for
civil society, including NGOs, business representatives and
Kenyan Members of Parliament. The aim was to increase
awareness of the role and functions of the WTO and to inform
participants about preparations for the Tenth Ministerial

Background on relations with NGOs
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with civil
society organizations on various aspects of the
WTO and on-going trade negotiations. The aim
of this dialogue is to enhance cooperation and
increase awareness of WTO activities and the
multilateral trading system. The WTO’s founding
agreement establishes a legal basis for consultation
and cooperation with NGOs. The General Council
recognized the role of NGOs in raising awareness
about the WTO in a declaration in 1996.

In November, the WTO and the “Organisation Internationale
de la Francophonie” organized a regional workshop in Senegal.
It was entitled “En Route to Nairobi: Regional Dialogue in
French-speaking Africa in Preparation for the 10th Ministerial
Conference of the WTO”. Representatives of NGOs and the
private sector took part. Participants discussed key issues
regarding the Nairobi Ministerial Conference, in particular
the expectations, challenges and priorities for African
francophone countries.

Nairobi Ministerial Conference
Some 232 NGOs from 49 countries were accredited for the
Nairobi Ministerial Conference in December, and 300 NGO
representatives attended the event. About 30 side events
were organized by NGOs during the conference. NGOs were
briefed on a daily basis regarding the negotiations, and a
dedicated webpage was created gathering together relevant
information for NGO representatives. NGOs also received
regular updates via email alerts.

Relations with non-governmental organizations
www.wto.org/ngos

138

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 142 End-----------------------

A session at the 2015
Public Forum coorganized by the World
Farmers’ Organization.

232

Open hearings
Since 2005, a number of panel meetings, Appellate Body
hearings and arbitration proceedings have been open to
the public, including NGOs. As a result, registered NGOs
have been able to follow the open hearings through video
links. In 2015, two panels were opened to the public in the
country of origin labelling (COOL) dispute about food labelling
(see page 115).

Outreach

A total of 232
NGOs from
49 countries were
accredited for the
Nairobi Ministerial
Conference
in December.

NGOs submitted 17 position papers and studies to the
WTO Secretariat, which circulated them to WTO members.
The papers covered issues such as agriculture, youth,
development, trade facilitation, the Information Technology
Agreement and services.

Relations with non-governmental organizations
www.wto.org/ngos
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

139

-----------------------Page 143 End-----------------------

Spotlight

Public Forum 2015
The 2015 Public Forum focused on how and why trade works, and for whom. Participants
discussed the contribution of the WTO to the strength and stability of the world economy over
the past 20 years. They looked at how the multilateral trading system boosts growth, lifts
people out of poverty, increases access to goods and medicines and promotes beneficial
relationships between nations. The Forum also examined areas where the WTO can do more
to ensure that trade benefits all.

H

eld from 30 September to 2 October
under the theme “Trade Works”, the
2015 Public Forum attracted a larger
number of participants than the previous
year (see below) for its 90 sessions,
including two high-level plenary debates.
The opening session featured a
discussion on “Making Trade Work More
Inclusively”. The panel looked at how
international trade contributes to
development and how trade policy should
be shaped at the multilateral level. In the
second plenary debate – “Making trade
work for business” – speakers exchanged
views on how trade policy should be used
to address global challenges, how trade
can work better and where the WTO can
do more for the private sector.
The Public Forum sessions were organized by a wide range
of participants, including WTO members, businesses,
non-governmental organizations (NGOs), academia, law ﬁrms
and international organizations (see below). Topics for debate
included how trade can help reduce economic gaps between
developed and developing countries, how trade fosters global
integration, and how intellectual property rights function for
global trade and access to medicines.

The Forum featured four book launches related to the
WTO’s 20th anniversary: WTO Accessions and Trade
Multilateralism: Case Studies and Lessons for the WTO at
Twenty; 20 Years of the WTO: A Retrospective; The Making
of the TRIPS Agreement: Personal Insights from the Uruguay

Background on the Public Forum

1,300
The Public Forum attracted
1,300 participants in 2015.

The Public Forum grew from the WTO’s desire to
open its doors to non-governmental organizations
(NGOs). Over the years the event has grown to
become the WTO’s major outreach event for public
debate across a wide range of trade issues. It is a
unique platform for senior government representatives,
global leaders in business, academics, NGOs and
trade delegates to come together to discuss trends
in global trade and the role of the WTO. Private
sector participation has increased year on year.
Trade associations and private sector companies
have organized an increasing number of sessions,
bringing practical experience to global trade issues.

Spotlight: Public Forum 2015
www.wto.org/pf15

140

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 144 End-----------------------

Round Negotiations; and The WTO at Twenty: Challenges
and Achievements.
The Forum programme included “Meet the Author” sessions,
presented by the WTO Bookshop and Library, and stands
organized by a variety of partners showcasing how trade
works. Themes for the stands included “Trading Safely”,
“Trade for LDC Development”, “Linking Haiti Artisans to Value
Chains” and “Pursuing Sustainability in the Global Economy”.
Participants were able to send messages on how and why
trade works at a photo corner. All messages were posted on
social media.

Figure 1: Public Forum participation in 2015, by country

Participation
The Public Forum 2015 attracted 1,300 participants (excluding
WTO delegates and staff), 21 per cent more than in 2014.
Participants came from 85 countries, including non-members
and observer governments. Businesses provided the largest
number of representatives, followed closely by NGOs and
students. Many sessions were the result of collaboration
between different types of organization.

Figure 2: Public Forum participation in 2015
Journalist 1%

Norway 1% South Africa 1%
India 1%
Spain 1%
Kenya 2%
Denmark 1%
Sweden 1%
Finland 1%
Netherlands 2%
Other 13%
Canada 2%
Russian Federation
2%
Brazil 3%

Lawyer 3%
Parliamentarians 4%
Government official 6%

Business representative
14%

Other 6%

China 3%
United Kingdom
3%
Germany 4%
United States
4%

Switzerland
32%

Academic 9%

NGO
representative
13%

Italy 5%
Student (high school) 9%

Student (university) 13%

Belgium 6%
France 12%

Note: “Unknown” reﬂects on-the-spot registration where participants did not
specify their type of organization.

Spotlight: Public Forum 2015
www.wto.org/pf15
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

141

Outreach

Unknown
13%

International
organization
9%

-----------------------Page 145 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with
parliamentarians
The Parliamentary Conference on the WTO called for prompt ratification of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement at its annual meeting in February. Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
told parliamentarians that they are “crucial” to the work of the WTO. DG Azevêdo also
participated in an African Parliamentarians Conference in Morocco in April. The WTO was
involved in a number of regional workshops and meetings with parliamentarians aimed at
promoting understanding of the multilateral trading system.

I

n April 2015, DG Azevêdo
participated in a conference for
African parliamentarians in Marrakesh,
organized by the Government
of Morocco to mark the WTO’s
20th anniversary. The event was
attended by 19 African delegations,
including ten at the level of President
of the country’s Parliament.
DG Azevêdo and the Prime Minister
of Morocco, Abdelilah Benkirane,
opened the conference, which
focused on the ratiﬁcation of the
WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement
(see page 83). DG Azevêdo also
took part in a parallel conference for
African trade ministers, which was
attended by 24 ministers.
The Parliamentary Conference on the
WTO, meeting on 16-17 February
2015 at the WTO’s headquarters,
expressed strong support for
the multilateral trading system.

DG Azevêdo participating in a conference
in Marrakesh in April 2015, organized
by the Government of Morocco to
mark the WTO’s 20 th anniversary.

Background on contact with parliamentarians
Parliamentarians play an important role in the
multilateral trading system and the WTO due to
their constitutional role. Any deal resulting from
intergovernmental negotiations at the WTO will, in most
cases, need approval from legislators. The WTO seeks
to maintain an open dialogue with parliamentarians
and to help them gain a deeper understanding of the
organization and its work. The WTO participates in
parliamentary body meetings and organizes workshops
for parliamentarians at national and regional levels.

Parliamentarians from around the world called for prompt
ratiﬁcation of the Trade Facilitation Agreement (see page 83),
a redoubling of efforts to conclude the Doha Round and a
permanent solution to the issue of public stockholding for
food security purposes (see page 35).
Addressing the conference, DG Azevêdo told parliamentarians
that their involvement “is crucial in all of our work – because
it is through you that we hear the voices of the people that
we are here to serve”. He urged parliamentarians to continue
supporting the WTO, including by helping to secure speedy
ratiﬁcation by their countries of the Trade Facilitation
Agreement and acceptance of an amendment to the TRIPS
(trade-related intellectual property rights) Agreement

Contact with parliamentarians
www.wto.org/parliamentarians

142

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 146 End-----------------------

The annual
Parliamentary
Conference on the
WTO was held at the
WTO’s headquarters on
16-17 February 2015.

concerning access to affordable medicines for developing
countries (see page 78).
The Steering Committee of the Inter-Parliamentary Union
(IPU) on WTO matters, comprising about 30 parliamentarians,
met in October in Geneva on the sidelines of the WTO Public
Forum. The IPU is the international organization of parliaments.
Participation in these meetings by senior WTO staff, the Chair
of the WTO General Council and Geneva-based ambassadors
provides a means to brief legislators on important issues facing
the multilateral trading system. WTO Deputy Director-General
Yi Xiaozhun addressed the Committee, outlining preparations
for the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi at the end of the
year. The WTO Secretariat briefed the Committee about the
Trade Facilitation Agreement.
A parliamentary session was held during the Public Forum
in October on “reducing trade costs: why speedy legislative
action on the Trade Facilitation Agreement is of paramount
importance”. Speakers included members of the European
Parliament and members of national assemblies from Africa
and Asia.

Regional workshops and meetings

The workshops were part of regular WTO cooperation with
various regional parliamentary associations, foundations and
think tanks. These regional workshops complement national
workshops for parliamentarians, which are carried out as a
part of the WTO’s regular technical assistance work.
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) invited the WTO
Secretariat to contribute to two regional meetings organized
for parliamentarians from the Arab and Central and Eastern
European & Central Asian Countries (CEECAC) regions.
The meetings attracted senior MPs from the regions and
included a debate on the relevance of the work of the WTO
and the IMF for the two regions.
The two meetings, which were each attended by around
30 participants, aimed to generate greater understanding
of the multilateral trading system and to provide a forum for
participants to exchange ideas. They included an open debate
on the role of the WTO in fostering development.

Outreach

In 2015 the WTO organized two regional workshops for
members of parliament (MPs) from Asia and from the Indian

Ocean Commission, an intergovernmental organization
composed of Comoros, Réunion, Madagascar, Mauritius
and Seychelles, and the East African Community. The WTO
also teamed up with the Organization Internationale de la
Francophonie for a multi-stakeholder consultation involving
African MPs, in Dakar, Senegal, to discuss the Tenth
Ministerial Conference.

Contact with parliamentarians
www.wto.org/parliamentarians
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

143

-----------------------Page 147 End-----------------------

Outreach

Cooperation with other
international organizations
In 2015, the WTO cooperated with a variety of intergovernmental organizations. With the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), it signed a declaration to
strengthen collaboration. It co-published a report with the World Bank on trade’s role in ending
poverty and continued to publish reports on G20 trade and investment measures, together with
UNCTAD and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo was in New York for the UN General Assembly at which
the new Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were adopted.

United Nations
DG Azevêdo attended the spring and autumn meetings
of the United Nations Chief Executives Board (CEB) – a
high-level body composed of the executive heads of UN
agencies, funds and programmes as well as the executive
heads of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World
Bank and the WTO. The role of the CEB, chaired by the UN
Secretary-General, is to enhance international cooperation
on global issues. WTO Secretariat ofﬁcials also participate
in meetings of the Board’s subsidiary bodies dealing with
programme and management issues.
The Director-General attended the UN’s Third International
Conference on Financing for Development in Addis Ababa,
Ethiopia, in July. He stressed the importance of addressing
issues related to trade ﬁnance and credit insurance as a
means of improving export opportunities for developing
and least-developed countries. At the same event, Deputy
Director-General Xiaozhun Yi moderated a round table
session on global partnerships. He emphasized the role that
public-private partnerships could play in resolving social,
environmental and economic issues and in contributing to
meeting some of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) (see page 119).

In September, DG Azevêdo attended a UN General Assembly,
which adopted the SDGs. He delivered the keynote speech
at the SDG Business Forum, a high-level event organized on
the margins of the UN Summit by the International Chamber
of Commerce, the International Finance Corporation, the UN
Global Compact and the World Economic Forum.
DDG Yi attended the spring meeting of the UN Economic and
Social Council (ECOSOC) held in New York under the theme
of “Coherence, coordination and cooperation in the context
of ﬁnancing for sustainable development and the post-2015
development agenda”.
The WTO is also represented on the UN High-Level Task
Force (HLTF) on the Global Food Security Crisis, which
was established by the CEB in April 2008, following the
rise in global food prices and the crisis it triggered. Since
January 2013, the HLTF has focused on the zero hunger
challenge (ZHC) as its central theme. Launched at the 2012
UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20),
the ZHC is working towards a hungerfree world. It lays
down ﬁve objectives, including ensuring that all people have
adequate access to nutritious food and that food systems
are environmentally sustainable.

United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD)
Background on cooperation with other
international organizations
The WTO works closely with other intergovernmental
organizations and regional bodies, especially those
involved in trade-related issues. This cooperation
helps to ensure coordinated action and a coherent
approach to international trade policies.

The WTO and UNCTAD work together on trade and
development issues and cooperate closely in providing training
and technical assistance to developing and least-developed
countries. The heads of the WTO and UNCTAD signed a
declaration in October 2015 to strengthen this collaboration,
committing them to work together to harness trade as a tool
for development and poverty alleviation.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

144

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 148 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo attended
the UN Chief
Executives Board
(CEB) meeting held
at UN Headquarters
in New York on
18 November 2015.

The WTO also cooperates with UNCTAD within the framework
of the UN inter-agency “cluster” on trade and productive
capacity, which aims to coordinate trade and development
operations throughout the UN system. UNCTAD is a major
WTO partner on programmes such as the Enhanced
Integrated Framework (EIF) (see page 128) and the Joint
Integrated Technical Assistance Programme. The latter
partnership, which also involves the International Trade
Centre (ITC), provides technical assistance to selected
least-developed countries and other African countries.

International Trade Centre (ITC)

The WTO and UNCTAD jointly sponsor the ITC, a trade
promotion body for developing countries. The WTO also
collaborates with ITC and UNCTAD in the annual publication
of the World Tariff Proﬁles (see page 153). UNCTAD and
ITC contributed to the joint OECD-WTO publication Aid for
Trade at a Glance 2015: Reducing Trade Costs for Inclusive,
Sustainable Development that was presented at the Fifth
Global Review of Aid for Trade (see page 126).

The ITC’s Joint Advisory Group (JAG) meets annually to
make recommendations on the ITC’s work programme.
The 49th session of the JAG was held on 26 June at the
WTO. The report of the meeting was presented to the WTO’s
Committee on Trade and Development and was subsequently
adopted by the General Council.

The WTO works closely with the ITC to provide the support
that developing countries need to implement and beneﬁt from
WTO agreements. In addition to the collaboration noted above,
the WTO and ITC are also working together in the Business
for Development initiative, which aims to help the private sector
in developing countries deﬁne national priorities for WTO
negotiations and encourage governments to be mindful of
business concerns.

Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD)

To improve the OECD-WTO joint database on trade in value
added, the two organizations also teamed up to produce
bilateral estimates of services trade based on the Extended
Balance of Payments Services Classiﬁcation of the IMF.

DG Azevêdo and Angel Gurría,
OECD Secretary-General, at the Fifth
Global Review of Aid for Trade in July 2015.

The OECD and WTO are also cooperating on the development
of a set of trade facilitation indicators (TFIs). The 2015 update
of this interactive web tool covers 152 countries. The TFIs
identify areas for action and help assess the potential impact
of trade facilitation reforms so that governments can prioritize
action and mobilize technical assistance.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

145

Outreach

In addition to their joint reports mentioned below, the OECD
and the WTO cooperate in the Trade in Value-Added (TIVA)
database, launched in January 2013. The 2015 edition
covers 61 economies – four more than in 2014 – and 34
manufacturing and services sectors. Measuring trade in terms
of value added gives a clearer picture of today’s way of trading
than the traditional statistics based on customs returns.

-----------------------Page 149 End-----------------------

Outreach

Dr Jim Yong Kim,
President of the World
Bank Group, at the
launch of the joint WTOWorld Bank publication,
The Role of Trade in
Ending Poverty.

Other intergovernmental organizations
The WTO cooperates on trade issues and on the needs of
developing countries with a number of intergovernmental
organizations. In June 2015, the World Bank Group and the
WTO jointly launched a new co-publication, The Role of Trade
in Ending Poverty, which looks at the complex relationships
between economic growth, poverty reduction and trade.
Together with the IMF and the World Bank, the WTO hosted
a two-day workshop on international trade in Geneva in June
2015. Experts from the three institutions presented research
and exchanged views on current international trade issues,
including the links between trade and growth, global value
chains, services trade, trade ﬁnance, and trade and other
policy links.

In October, the WTO held a joint technical symposium with the
World Health Organization and the World Intellectual Property
Organization – “Public Health, Intellectual Property, and TRIPS
at 20: Innovation and Access to Medicines” – which looked
at access to, and innovation in, medical technologies.
The symposium (see page 9) was one of a number of events
marking the 20th anniversary of the WTO and its agreements,
including the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property (TRIPS).
Together with the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES),
the WTO launched a new publication, CITES and the WTO:
Enhancing Cooperation for Sustainable Development
(see page 154).

DG Azevêdo and CITES
Secretary-General
John E. Scanlon
(left) at the launch of
the co-publication
CITES and the
WTO: Enhancing
Cooperation for
Sustainable Development.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

146

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 150 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo attended
the G20 summit in
Antalya, Turkey in
November 2015.

G20
DG Azevêdo attended the G20 summit in Antalya, Turkey,
in November as well as the G20 trade ministers meeting in
Istanbul in October. The G20 summit communiqué includes
the commitment to a strong and efﬁcient multilateral trading
system and leaders reiterated their determination to work
together to improve its functioning, including through ensuring
a successful Nairobi ministerial conference. To support this
work, they also agreed that trade ministers should continue
to meet on a regular basis and that a supporting working
group be established. Other elements of the G20’s work
on trade were also advanced, including on the monitoring
of trade-restrictive measures and analytical work on the
relationship between the multilateral trading system and
regional trade agreements.

On regional trade agreements (RTAs), work led by the WTO
focused on identifying key provisions in RTAs, including those
that go beyond existing WTO rules and provisions for which
the WTO currently has no rules. This included the examination
of all RTAs notiﬁed by the G20 to the WTO, which found that
while most were based on multilateral rules there was also
some divergences with multilateral rules and between different
RTAs. The G20 recognised the importance for RTAs being
supportive of the multilateral trading system.
The WTO’s Agriculture and Commodities Division increased
its participation in the G20 Agricultural Market Information
System (AMIS), an initiative established in 2011 to enhance
food market transparency and encourage international policy
coordination. The division attended the G20 Rapid Response
Forum, the policy coordination body comprising senior ofﬁcials
from AMIS countries, and the expert meetings of the AMIS
Global Food Market Information Group.
Outreach

The WTO Secretariat attends sessions of the International
Labour Organization (ILO) Governing Body and the
International Labour Conference as an observer and
participates in meetings of the Governing Body’s Working
Party on the Social Dimension of Globalization. The ILO and
the WTO are undertaking research to be published in 2016
on the role that skills-development policies can play in making
trade an engine of inclusive growth.

measures in the G20 group of leading developed and
developing countries. In October, the report highlighted
the uncertain global economic outlook which continued to
have an adverse impact on international trade. It noted that
G20 economies faced a number of important challenges to
deliver on their collective pledge to refrain from implementing
new trade-restrictive measures and to remove existing ones
(see page 92).

On trade monitoring, the WTO published two six-monthly
reports with UNCTAD and the OECD on trade and investment

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

147

-----------------------Page 151 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with the media
Some 350 journalists attended the Tenth Ministerial Conference, including 12 journalists
from least-developed countries (LDCs) whose attendance was supported by the
WTO. The WTO held several training activities for journalists, including seminars in
Geneva, and WTO press officers participated in a number of national and regional
outreach activities. The number of WTO press briefings and press conferences rose
to 53, compared with 42 the previous year, reflecting media interest in the WTO’s
20th anniversary and the run-up to the Ministerial Conference in Nairobi.

T

he WTO’s press brieﬁngs and press conferences covered
almost every area of WTO activity, from dispute settlement
to trade negotiations. In addition, the Information and External
Relations Division (IERD) maintained regular contact with
journalists through e-mail brieﬁngs. Approximately 150 of these
were sent to journalists in 2015 to update them on the latest
WTO activities. The topics covered include the notiﬁcation
of new trade disputes and background notes on panel or
Appellate Body rulings.

Twelve journalists from LDCs were invited to attend the
Conference in cooperation with the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung
(FES), a German foundation. They enjoyed special access
to ofﬁcials and exclusive brieﬁngs. The journalists were from
Benin, Ethiopia, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Myanmar, Senegal, Togo, Uganda
and Zambia.

350

The media were invited to many of the WTO’s 20th anniversary
events, including a seminar organized jointly by the WTO,
the World Health Organization and the World Intellectual
Property Organization (see page 9) and workshops on issues
such as sustainable development and technical barriers to
trade. They were also invited to publication launches and to
the announcement of trade forecasts by WTO economists.

Some 350 journalists
attended the Tenth
Ministerial Conference.

On average, every two days a new journalist requested
registration in the Media Newsroom of the WTO website,
a speciﬁc area dedicated to journalists. This brings the total
number of those registered to 2,523 at the end of 2015.

Training activities

Ministerial Conference

In 2015, the WTO held several training activities for journalists,
including seminars in Geneva for Russian journalists and
francophone journalists from several countries.

Around 350 journalists attended the Tenth Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi in December. The IERD provided
background brieﬁngs to journalists on areas of particular
relevance, such as trade facilitation, the expansion of
the Information Technology Agreement (ITA), trade and
development, and preferential rules of origin (see page 39).

Ten journalists from Russia attended a regional workshop
at WTO headquarters in March. It provided an introduction
to the WTO and covered subjects of particular interest to
Russia. Participants heard presentations on such topics as
accessions, agriculture, development, dispute settlement,
regional trade agreements and energy (see Figure 3). The FES
covered the cost of this workshop.

Contact with the media
www.wto.org/media

148

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 152 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo and
Kenya’s Cabinet
Secretary for Foreign
Affairs and International
Trade, Amina Mohamed,
at a press conference
during the Fifth Global
Review of Aid for Trade.

Figure 3: Meetings/subjects covered by WTO briefings/
press conferences in 2015
Accession of Kazakhstan

1

Agriculture

5

Aid for Trade

1

Dispute settlement
General Council/Heads of
Delegations
Government procurement

11
9
1

Market access
Preparations for Tenth
Ministerial Conference
Rules
Sanitary and phytosanitary
measures
Trade facilitation

1

Trade finance

1

Trade in goods
Trade Negotiations
Committee
Trade Policy Reviews
Trade-related aspects of
intellectual property rights
Trade in services

1

In May, eight journalists participated in a seminar for
Francophone countries. The participants were from Benin,
Cameroon, Congo Brazzaville, Côte d’Ivoire, Madagascar,
Mauritius, Senegal and Tunisia. Presentations were made by
a variety of WTO experts on a wide range of topics.
Press ofﬁcers participated in several national and regional
outreach activities for media, parliamentarians and civil society
in Kenya, Panama, Paraguay and South Africa. They also took
part in other outreach activities in France, Italy and Senegal.
Some of these activities were organized by IERD.

1
2
1
2

2
2
2
2

2

4

6

8

10

12

Outreach

0

Contact with the media
www.wto.org/media
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

149

-----------------------Page 153 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with the business
community
The WTO’s annual Public Forum attracted a significant increase in business representatives
in 2015, showing the strong interest of business groups and companies in contributing to the
debate about WTO activities. The business community was also well-represented at the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi. Twenty-three of the non-governmental organizations
accredited for the event were business organizations.

Public Forum
Over 170 business representatives attended the WTO’s 2015
Public Forum, “Trade Works”, in October (see page 140).
This was signiﬁcantly higher than the previous year’s total of
150. Businesses organized 25 sessions during the three-day
event, compared with 15 in 2014, covering topics such as
agriculture, information technology, intellectual property and
global value chains.
Session organizers included the International Federation of
Freight Forwarders Association, the Moroccan Association
of Exporters, the International Chamber of Commerce,
the National Foreign Trade Council, BusinessEurope,
the Federation of German Industries, the All India Association
of Industries, the International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and JETRO, Japan’s
External Trade Organization.

Ministerial Conference
The WTO held several regional meetings in Nairobi, Kenya,
and in Cape Town, South Africa, in the run-up to the Tenth
Ministerial Conference (MC10) to update the business
community on preparations for MC10 (see page 20). A total of
23 business organizations attended the Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi at the end of the year.

Background on contact with the
business community
Business and the WTO have always been closely
connected. The private sector is a major beneﬁciary
of transparent and predictable trade rules and
obligations. Business is an important interlocutor
for both governments and the WTO. It is actively
involved in the multilateral trading system and
participates in public activities of the WTO.

DHL representative speaking at a
Trade Facilitation Agreement event
at the Tenth Ministerial Conference
on 17 December 2015.

Other contact with businesses
Throughout the year, WTO ofﬁcials met with members of the
business community visiting Geneva and held meetings with
business representatives during visits overseas. The issues
most frequently discussed included the latest state of play
in the WTO’s trade negotiations, the ratiﬁcation of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement and dispute settlement.
The WTO’s web pages dedicated to the business community
(www.wto.org/business) and its regular electronic newsletter
continue to be important channels of communication with
the private sector, providing the latest updates on trade
negotiations, trade statistics and new initiatives aimed at
encouraging dialogue with the business community.

Contact with the business community
www.wto.org/business

150

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 154 End-----------------------

Contact with the public
The WTO website received just over 20 million visits in 2015. The site was merged with the
WTO members’ website to bring all WTO material into one self-contained area. The WTO
expanded its use of social media, almost doubling its number of Twitter followers. An average
of 356,000 video clips were watched on the WTO website every month, a significant increase
on the previous year. The WTO welcomed 223 visiting groups, up from 216 in 2014. Ninety WTO
publications were produced, including a variety of titles to mark the WTO’s 20th anniversary.

The WTO website attracted over 1.8 million visits a month.
In 2015, total page views rose to 47.8 million, compared with
43.6 million the previous year. A total of 16 per cent of the
visitors are from the United States, followed by 6 per cent from
Mexico, 5.75 per cent from India and 4.5 per cent from China.
Over 2,000 web pages were created or updated during the
course of the year.

1.8 million
The WTO website
attracts over 1.8 million
visits a month.

The most downloaded ﬁles in 2015 were two of the WTO’s
ﬂagship publications, “International Trade Statistics” (130,055
downloads) and the “World Trade Report” (73,823), followed
by “Global Value Chains in a Changing World” (48,959),
published in 2013. An average of 356,000 videos clips
were watched per month, almost double the previous year’s
222,000. The most popular in 2015, with 446,584 views,
was a 2012 interview on the WTO’s dispute settlement system
with Professor John Jackson of Georgetown University, United
States, who sadly died in November.

by “logged-in users”. Since the merger in August 2015, logged
in members have viewed more than 1.5 million pages on the
WTO website.
The number of people registered to receive email alerts when
news items are published on the website stands at just over
100,000. The largest categories for these alerts are university
students (30 per cent), the business community (13 per cent),
government ofﬁcials (12 per cent), the academic community
(12 per cent) and lawyers (8 per cent) (see Figure 4).
The countries with the largest number of registrations are
India (10 per cent), the United States (8 per cent), Mexico
(5 per cent), China (4 per cent) and France (4  per cent).
Figure 4: People registered to receive email alerts, as of
end 2015
Accredited media 2.0%
Other journalists 2.2%
Other 14.7%

Other
academics
9.5%

Business representative
13.0%

Government
official 12.1%

University
professors
3.2%
Lawyer 7.6%
Students (university)
30.4%

NGO representatives
2.5%
Students (high school) 2.6% Parliamentarians 0.2%

In 2015, the WTO merged its members’ website with the
public website, creating a one-stop shop for members
seeking access to both public and restricted documents.
A new “lightbox” facility allows all documents related to
ofﬁcial meetings at the WTO to be instantly downloaded

Contact with the public
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

151

Outreach

WTO website

-----------------------Page 155 End-----------------------

Outreach

Social media

Visiting groups

In 2015, the WTO expanded its use of social media to provide
more regular updates about WTO activities and major WTO
events. New features included regular statistical updates,
more news content from the website and alerts about job
vacancies at the WTO. Increased use of social media was
made at events such as the Fifth Global Review of Aid for
Trade, the Public Forum and the Tenth Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi to provide more timely reporting of these events.

The WTO welcomed 223 visiting groups in 2015, up from 216
in 2014. The total number of visitors was 6,325, compared
with 5,725 the previous year. Most of the presentations
covered the current work of the organization and the history
of the WTO. Some visiting groups were given presentations on
speciﬁc WTO topics, including dispute settlement, agriculture,
development and intellectual property.

The WTO’s Twitter followers almost doubled to 245,000 by
the end of 2015. WTO tweets were viewed over 6 million times
in 2015. The Twitter account of Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo had 7,683 followers in January 2016, compared with
4,210 a year ago. The WTO’s Facebook page was “liked”
by over 170,000 users, a 40 per cent increase from a year
earlier. The WTO is also present on Weibo, a Chinese social
media platform, with over 620,000 followers. The audience for
the WTO’s social media activities includes WTO delegates,
students and academics.

245,000
The WTO’s Twitter
followers almost doubled
to 245,000 in 2015.

WTO videos
The WTO broadened its video production in 2015 and
introduced new formats. To mark the 20th anniversary of the
WTO, a new video series, “Trade Starts Here”, was launched
to showcase people from around the world who have beneﬁted
from trade. Among the stories are those of Nang Arn, who has
moved from working in the ﬁelds of Cambodia to managing a
team in a factory exporting electrical wiring, and Olivier Madiba
from Kenya, who beneﬁts from copyright protection under the
WTO’s TRIPS Agreement to export his video games around
the world.
An average of 356,000 video clips were watched on
the WTO website every month in 2015, compared with
220,000 the previous year. On the WTO’s YouTube channel,
WTO videos were played 130,000 times in 2015. “The WTO
at Twenty” was the most watched WTO video on YouTube,
with 10,000 views.

The majority of the presentations (80 per cent) were given
in English. A total of 12 per cent were given in French, while
2 per cent each were in Spanish and German. The remaining
4 per cent of the presentations were given in Arabic, Chinese,
Finnish, Korean, Portuguese, Russian and Thai.

223
The WTO welcomed
223 visiting groups
in 2015.

WTO publications
Ninety WTO publications were produced in 2015, up from 70
in 2014, including apps of the Annual Report and the World
Trade Report. Eight book launches were held at the WTO
to mark the WTO’s 20th anniversary, including “The WTO at
Twenty: Challenges and Achievements”, “WTO Accessions
and Trade Multilateralism – Case Studies and Lessons from
the WTO at Twenty” and “A History of Law and Lawyers in
the GATT/WTO: The Development of the Rule of Law in the
Multilateral Trading System”.
The vast majority of WTO publications can be downloaded free
of charge from the WTO website in the WTO’s three ofﬁcial
languages: English, French and Spanish. Printed copies can
be purchased from a global network of distributors and from
the WTO online bookshop at http://onlinebookshop.wto.org
Apps of the Annual Report and the World Trade Report can be
downloaded from the App Store and Google Play for viewing
on tablets.
The WTO’s Publications Facebook page has over
45,000 fans, up from 36,000 in 2014, and its Twitter page
has amassed over 52,000 followers, some 33 per cent more
than the previous year. WTO Publications also has a presence
on Foursquare, Google+ and Pinterest. A digital newsletter,
“Book News”, is sent regularly to over 90,000 recipients.

Contact with the public
www.wto.org

152

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 156 End-----------------------

Flagship publications

Other annual publications

Annual Report 2015
ISBN 978-92-870-3982-8 | CHF 50

Trade Profiles 2015
ISBN 978-92-870-3991-0 | CHF 40

2015

Annual Report 2015 app
Free

Download
the app
today.

The Annual Report app can be
downloaded from the App Store and
Google Play for viewing on tablets.
The report includes the full text
of the Annual Report plus videos,
photo galleries, charts, podcasts and
interactive maps.

an
d

WTO budget
contribution
Commercial
services trade

Trade ranking
Trade to GDP
Merchandise
trade

Tariffs

Duty free
imports
Disputes

World Tariff Profiles 2015
ISBN 978-92-870-3994-1 | CHF 50
World Tariff Profiles 2015
Applied
MF

World Tariff Proﬁles 2015 provides a
unique collection of data on the tariffs
imposed by WTO members and other
countries. It is jointly published by the
WTO, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development and the
International Trade Centre.

Nt

ar

iff
s

0<2
2<4
4<6
6<8
8<10

10<15

15<20

20<

Services Profiles 2015
WORLD
TRADE
REPORT
2015

ISBN 978-92-870-3997-2 | CHF 40
t
uc

ra
s

tr

Services Profiles 2015

Services Proﬁles 2015 provides key
statistics on “infrastructure services”,
i.e. transportation, telecommunications,
ﬁnance and insurance, for 186
economies. This includes, for the ﬁrst
time, data for all WTO members.

ices
erv
es
ur






Investment

Inf

Speeding up trade:
benefits and challenges
of implementing the WTO
Trade Facilitation Agreement

The WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement,
agreed at the Bali Ministerial Conference
in December 2013, is the ﬁrst multilateral
trade agreement concluded since the
establishment of the WTO in 1995.
The World Trade Report is the ﬁrst
detailed study of the potential impact of the Agreement.

Transportation

Finance
and
insurance

Trade

Employment



Telecoms

Production
Market
indicators

Boxed set of WTO statistical
titles 2015

International Trade Statistics 2015
ld
or
W

World Tariff Profiles 2015
Applied
MF

14
ts 20
por
ex

TOTAL
MERCHANDISE

TOTAL
COMMERCIAL
SERVICES

Nt

18,494

4,940
ar

US$ billion

US$ billion
Travel

if f
s

1,240

FUELS & MINING
PRODUCTS

US$ billion

AGRICULTURE

Transport

3,783

1,765

955

US$ billion

US$ billion

US$ billion

Food

1,486

Other
commercial
services

MANUFACTURES

US$ billion

2,585

12,250

US$ billion

160

US$ billion

US$ billion

Goods-related
services

Machinery and
transport equipment

503

US$ billion

Clothing

Other semimanufactures

6,087

1,196

US$ billion

Chemicals

Other
manufactures

2,057

1,623

US$ billion

US$ billion

US$ billion

SPECIAL FOCUS: WORLD TRADE AND THE WTO: 1995–2014
0<2
2<4
4<6
6<8
8<10

10<15

15<20

20<

tru

Services Profiles 2015

e
ad

lic
po

Inf

ra
s

Trade Profiles 2015

tr

The World Trade Report app can be
downloaded from the App Store and
Google Play for viewing on tablets and
mobile phones. The app includes the full
text of the Report plus the underlying
data for all charts and tables in Excel
format. It also contains a video and
photos of the launch event.

International Trade Statistics
World Tariff Profiles
Trade Profiles
Services Profiles

es
easur
ym

ct

ices
erv
es
ur






Investment

Transportation

WTO budget
contribution

an
d

The set comprises the WTO’s
four annual statistical publications:
International Trade Statistics
2015, World Tariff Proﬁles 2015,
Trade Proﬁles 2015 and Services
Proﬁles 2015.

2015

flow
s

ISBN 978-92-870-3981-1 | CHF 150

World Trade Report 2015 app
Free

Commercial
services trade

Finance
and
insurance

Trade

Employment



Outstanding
notifications
Trade ranking

Telecoms

Trade to GDP

Production
Merchandise
trade

Tariffs

Market
indicators

Duty free
imports
Disputes

Comprehensive data on global trade

International Trade Statistics 2015
ld
or
W

14
t s 20
por
ex

TOTAL
MERCHANDISE

TOTAL
COMMERCIAL
SERVICES

18,494

4,940

US$ billion

US$ billion
Travel

1,240

FUELS & MINING
PRODUCTS

US$ billion

AGRICULTURE

Transport

3,783

1,765

955

US$ billion

US$ billion

US$ billion

Food

Other
commercial
services

1,486
US$ billion

2,585

12,250

US$ billion

160

US$ billion

US$ billion

Goods-related
services

MANUFACTURES

Machinery and
transport equipment
US$ billion

503

US$ billion

Other semimanufactures

6,087

1,196

Chemicals

Other
manufactures

2,057

1,623

US$ billion

US$ billion

US$ billion

Clothing

The Trade Policy Reviews analyse the
trade policies and practices of WTO
members. In 2015, 14 reviews were
published for reviews undertaken in
2014 and 2015, covering Australia,
Barbados, Brunei Darussalam, Canada,
Djibouti (in French and English),
Hong Kong (China), India, Japan,
Mauritius, Mongolia, New Zealand,
Pakistan and the United States.

Outreach

Trade Policy Reviews

International Trade Statistics 2015
ISBN 978-92-870-3988-0 | CHF 50
International Trade Statistics offers a
comprehensive overview of the latest
developments in world trade, covering
both merchandise and services trade as
well as trade measured in value-added
terms. Charts and maps highlight the
latest developments in world trade while
more detailed data are provided in a
variety of tables.

es
easur
ym

Outstanding
notifications

Trade

World Trade Report 2015 –
Speeding up trade: benefits and
challenges of implementing the
WTO Trade Facilitation Agreement
ISBN 978-92-870-3985-9 | CHF 60

lic
po

flow
s

Annual
Report

e
ad

Trade

Trade Proﬁles 2015 provides
one-page snapshots of the most
relevant indicators on growth, trade
and trade policy measures for
over 200 economies, including all
WTO members.

tr

Trade Profiles 2015

The Annual Report begins
with a message from the WTO
Director-General and an overview of
the past year. This is followed by more
in-depth accounts of the WTO’s areas
of activity over the past 12 months.

Trade Policy Review

Australia 2015

SPECIAL FOCUS: WORLD TRADE AND THE WTO: 1995–2014

Publications
www.wto.org/publications
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

153

-----------------------Page 157 End-----------------------

Outreach
CITES and the WTO: Enhancing
Cooperation for
Sustainable Development

Dispute Settlement Reports 2014
Dispute Settlement Reports 2014
provides the full texts of panel reports,
Appellate Body reports and arbitration
awards issued by the WTO in 2014.
Eight volumes were published in
2015. Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

Dispute Settlement Reports 2013
Volume I: Pages 1 to 468

ISBN 978-92-870-4060-2 | Free

20
15
E

DIT

IO

1995–2014

Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015:
Reducing Trade Costs for
Inclusive, Sustainable Growth

“One-Page Case Summaries” provides
a succinct summary of the key ﬁndings
of every dispute panel report up to the
end of 2014 and, where applicable,
the subsequent Appellate Body report.

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

A History of Law and
Lawyers in the GATT/WTO
The Development of the Rule of Law in
the Multilateral Trading System
Edited by Gabrielle Marceau

This latest title in the WTO Agreements
series introduces the WTO’s Agreement
on Agriculture, outlining its key
principles, the work of the Agriculture
Committee, and how disputes have
interpreted WTO law on agriculture.
It includes the full text of the Agriculture
Agreement and the decisions taken
on agriculture at the 2013 Bali
Ministerial Conference.

REDUCING TRADE COSTS
FOR INCLUSIVE,
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH

“Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015”
reveals how reducing trade costs can
help to achieve sustainable growth.
It contains contributions from the
Enhanced Integrated Framework,
the International Trade Centre,
the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development and the World
Bank. Co-published with OECD.
The Role of Trade in
Ending Poverty

The book paints an interesting portrait
of the role that law and lawyers have
played in the history of the multilateral
trading system. It includes contributions
from current and former GATT and
WTO staff members, including
many current and former Appellate
Body members. Co-published with
Cambridge University Press.

ISBN 978-92-870-4022-0 | CHF 30

• •• FOR• • • • • •
AT A GLANCE
2015

ISBN 978-92-870-4019-0 | CHF 90

ISBN 978-1-107-08523-7 | CHF 130
| Hardback

Agriculture – 2nd Edition – WTO
Agreements Series

N

This publication illustrates how the
relationship between the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) and the WTO has evolved into
a leading example of how global trade
and environmental regimes can support
each other and work coherently to achieve shared objectives.
Co-published with CITES.

WTO Dispute Settlement:
One-Page Case Summaries

ISBN 978-92-870-4009-1 | CHF 40

A History of Law and Lawyers in
the GATT/WTO: The Development
of the Rule of Law in the
Multilateral Trading System

and
the

Enhancing Cooperation
for Sustainable
Development

2013

New publications
WTO Dispute Settlement: One-Page
Case Summaries, 1995-2014 (2015
edition)

CITES WTO

ISBN 978-92-870-4013-8 | CHF 40
“The Role of Trade in Ending Poverty”
looks at the complex relationships
between economic growth, poverty
reduction and trade, and examines
the challenges that poor people face
in beneﬁting from trade opportunities.
Co-published with the World Bank.

THE ROLE OF

TRADE
POVERTY
IN ENDING

JOINT PUBLICATION BY
THE WORLD BANK GROUP AND THE
WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

The WTO Agreements Series
Agriculture

WTO Accessions and Trade
Multilateralism: Case Studies and
Lessons from the WTO at Twenty

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

WTO Accessions and
Trade Multilateralism
Case Studies and Lessons from
the WTO at Twenty
Edited by Uri Dadush and Chiedu Osakwe

ISBN 978-1-107-47224-2 | CHF 70
This publication looks at how WTO
accession negotiations have expanded
the reach of the multilateral trading
system, not only geographically, but also
conceptually, clarifying disciplines
and pointing the way to their further
strengthening in future negotiations.
Co-published with Cambridge University Press.

Publications
www.wto.org/publications

154

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 158 End-----------------------

The Making of the TRIPS
Agreement: Personal Insights from
the Uruguay Round Negotiations

Twenty Years of the WTO
The Making of the TRIPS Agreement
Personal insights from the Uruguay Round negotiations
Edited by Jayashree Watal and Antony Taubman

ISBN 978-92-870-4006-0 |
CHF 60 | Hardback
20 years of the WTO
A retrospective

ISBN 978-92-870-4025-1 | CHF 70

This publication provides
an overview of the ﬁrst
two decades of the WTO,
describing the origins of the
organisation, its evolution and
its achievements, combining quotes from leading ﬁgures with
historical photos of key events in the WTO’s history over the
past 20 years.

“The Making of the TRIPS Agreement”
presents the diverse personal accounts
of the negotiators of this unique trade
agreement. In probing how negotiations
led to an enduring agreement that has
served as a framework for policy-making
in many countries, the contributions
offer lessons for current and future negotiators.
The WTO at Twenty: Challenges
and Achievements

The WTO
at Twenty

ISBN 978-92-870-4057-2 | CHF 30

Challenges and
achievements

ISBN 978-92-870-4063-3 | CHF 40

Status of WTO
Legal Instruments

“Status of WTO Legal Instruments”
covers the legal instruments drawn up
by WTO members in relation to the
Marrakesh Agreement establishing
the World Trade Organization and the
plurilateral trade agreements annexed
to that Agreement. For each legal
instrument, information is provided
regarding signature, acceptance, ratiﬁcation, accession and
entry into force.

This publication describes the WTO’s
achievements over the past 20 years,
and looks ahead to the challenges
facing the multilateral trading system in
the future.

2015 EDITION

20 th anniversary brochures

TR

A

D

E

Free

and

TARIFFS

as
s ne
ow li
gr ec
e sd
ad riff
r
T ta

The History and Future of the
World Trade Organization (French
and Spanish editions)

The History and Future of the
World Trade Organization
Craig VanGrasstek

ISBN 978-92-870-4055-8 – French |
ISBN 978-92-870-4056-5 – Spanish |
CHF 120 | Hardback

Re
be sol
tw vin
ee g
n tra
W d
TO e
d
m isp
em u
be tes
rs

WTO
DISPUTE
SETTLEMENT

A comprehensive account of the
economic, political and legal issues
surrounding the creation and evolution
of the WTO. Fully illustrated with
photographs dating back to the
early days of trade negotiations, the publication reviews the
WTO’s achievements as well as the challenges it has faced,
and identiﬁes the key questions that WTO members need to
address in the future.

Outreach

The WTO produced a series of
11 brochures to mark its 20th
anniversary, each looking into a
speciﬁc area of WTO activity and
highlighting achievements over the
past 20 years. The topics covered are
trade in services, training and technical
assistance, technical barriers to trade,
the TRIPS Agreement, accessions,
the Government Procurement
Agreement, sanitary and phytosanitary
measures, WTO dispute settlement,
the Trade Facilitation Agreement,
trade and the environment, and trade
and tariffs.

Status of WTO Legal Instruments
(2015 edition)

Publications
www.wto.org/publications
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

155

-----------------------Page 159 End-----------------------

Spotlight

WTO Open Day
Over 3,000 visitors attended the WTO’s fifth Open Day on 14 June. Organized as part of the
WTO’s 20th anniversary activities, the Open Day, entitled “Merci Genève”, provided the WTO
with the opportunity to thank the people of Geneva for hosting the organization since it was
established in 1995.

T

he aim of the 2015 Open Day was to give members of
the public the chance to discover more about the WTO’s
activities, to explore the home of the WTO, and to talk with
WTO staff and WTO members about the history of the
organization and its current work.
The day kicked off with an opening ceremony attended by
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo, Chair of the General
Council Ambassador Fernando de Mateo, Representative of
the Swiss Confederation Ambassador Didier Chambovey,
Mayor of Geneva Esther Alder, and Serge Dal Busco,
a member of the Geneva State Council.
In his address to participants, DG Azevêdo said: “Today is
about you. We want to thank the Geneva community. Each one
of us has a deep personal connection to the city, and that of
course is because of you.” Mr de Mateo said: “For those of
us who work in delegations and missions in the city, there is
no better place. The international spirit of Geneva creates the
perfect environment to advance our work.”
DG Azevêdo presented the Fondation des Immeubles pour
les Organisations Internationales (FIPOI) with a “Thank
You” award for its collaboration with the WTO since 1995.

In particular, he thanked FIPOI for its renovation work at the
WTO and for the construction of the new building alongside
the existing Centre William Rappard. DG Azevêdo said:
“I thank you for being our partner, our team-mate – and I am
proud to say – our friend for the last 20 years”. The “Thank
You” prize, a symbol of the WTO’s gratitude to the city of
Geneva, will be awarded annually to a local institution for
its contribution to the work of the WTO.
Guided tours by WTO staff provided visitors with the
opportunity to explore the WTO’s historic building and
artworks. These include a number of gifts provided by
international governments since the inauguration of the
building in 1926. The guided tours also included a visit to
the Director-General’s ofﬁce and the “Green Room”, where

3,000
Some 3,000 people
attended the WTO’s
2015 Open Day.

Spotlight:WTO Open Day
www.wto.org/openday

156

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 160 End-----------------------

Geneva’s Mayor, Mme Alder, said: “By approving the extension
project of the Centre William Rappard in 2009, the citizens
of Geneva clearly showed their commitment to the presence
of your organization in Geneva and to the fact that this is an
international and multicultural city.”
A series of short ﬁlms about the WTO were on display
throughout the day. Special exhibitions included displays of
documents relating to the role of law in the WTO and to the
organization’s dispute settlement activities. Interactive touch

screens offered visitors the opportunity to learn about the
WTO’s work and membership through photo galleries and
videos. Sessions on interpretation were organized by the
WTO’s team of interpreters, who explained what the work
involves and how the interpretation booths work.
Visitors were able to sample cuisine from around the world
provided by a variety of WTO members offering national
specialities in an eating area overlooking Lac Léman. Activities
for children included story-telling, face painting and a bouncy
castle, while live music was provided by WTO members of
staff throughout the day.

Spotlight:WTO Open Day
www.wto.org/openday
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

157

Outreach

high-level meetings take place. The new building, designed
by the German ﬁrm Wittfoht Architecture, was also part of the
tour. Approval of its construction was granted in a cantonal
referendum in 2009.

-----------------------Page 161 End-----------------------

Outreach

Economic research activities
The WTO’s Economic Research and Statistics Division (ERSD) organized a wide range of
outreach activities in 2015, including the launch of several key WTO publications, the holding
of the Fourth Annual Trade Workshop, which brought together researchers from the WTO, the
World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and a number of seminars.

A

t the Fifth Global Review of Aid
for Trade (see page 126) in July,
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
and World Bank President Jim Kim
launched a new co-publication by the
two institutions, The Role of Trade
in Ending Poverty. The publication
looks at the complex relationships
between economic growth, poverty
reduction and trade and examines the
challenges that poor people face in
beneﬁting from trade opportunities.
It discusses how trade could make a
greater contribution to ending poverty
if increasing efforts were made
to lower trade costs, improve the
environment for growth, implement
trade policy in conjunction with other
areas of policy, better manage risks
faced by the poor and improve data
used for policy-making.
As part of the activities to
commemorate the 20th anniversary
of the WTO, the WTO Secretariat
launched a new publication,
The WTO at Twenty: Challenges and
Achievements, at the Public Forum
(see page 140) in October. The book
draws together contributions from
various divisions of the WTO

DG Azevêdo with former WTO chief economist
Patrick Low at the launch of The WTO at Twenty:
Challenges and Achievements in October 2015.

Background on economic research activities
The WTO’s Economic Research and Statistics Division
organizes regular seminars and conferences as well
as online forums involving academics and researchers
in Geneva and around the world. These activities
include the Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
programme. It is responsible for the WTO’s ﬂagship
publication, the World Trade Report, which aims to
deepen understanding about trends in trade, trade
policy issues and the multilateral trading system.

Secretariat to describe the WTO’s achievements over its
ﬁrst 20 years, and looks at the challenges arising from an
increasingly complex and diverse global trading system.
The WTO’s ﬂagship publication, the World Trade Report,
was launched by DG Azevêdo in October. Focusing on
the Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), it provides the ﬁrst
detailed study of the potential impact of the TFA. The report
ﬁnds that the Agreement has the potential to increase world
trade by up to US$ 1 trillion per annum and possibly more
under the ideal circumstances of full implementation of the
TFA. The report also ﬁnds that developing countries will
capture a large part of the available gains from implementing
the Agreement. These ﬁndings are consistent with existing

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research

158

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 162 End-----------------------

The World Trade
Report was launched
by DG Azevêdo in
October 2015.

studies on the scale of potential beneﬁts from trade facilitation
but the report goes further by identifying and examining in
detail a range of other beneﬁts.
These beneﬁts include diversiﬁcation of exports from
developing countries and least-developed countries to include
new products and partners, increased involvement of these
countries in global value chains, expanded participation of
small and medium-sized enterprises in international trade,
increased foreign direct investment, greater customs revenue
collection and reduced incidence of corruption.

In 2015, the Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
programme – co-organized by ERSD, the Graduate Institute’s
Centre for Trade and Economic Integration, the University of
Geneva and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD) – hosted 20 events. The programme
brings together academics and researchers in the Geneva
region working in the area of trade and development.
By providing a forum for presentation of cutting-edge research,
the programme contributes to the exchange of ideas, supports
high-quality research and facilitates outreach to policy-makers
and the wider Geneva trade policy community.

Outreach

The Fourth Annual Trade Workshop organized in collaboration
with the World Bank Group and the International Monetary
Fund was held at the WTO in June. The workshop brought
together trade experts from the three institutions to present

on-going research papers, discuss current policy issues and
identify areas of future collaboration. The topics of the papers
included: global value chains, growth and price movements;
trade, productivity and growth; and uncertainty and trade.

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

159

-----------------------Page 163 End-----------------------

Outreach

Statistics activities
The WTO made further improvements to its Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal (I-TIP), which
now includes increased data coverage on tariff and non-tariff measures. With the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development, the WTO has updated the database on trade in
value-added terms, which now covers 61 countries and 34 sectors. In July 2015, the WTO
hosted Trade Data Day, which examined recent advances in trade and market access statistics
and looked ahead to future challenges.

Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal

T

he WTO’s Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal (I-TIP) on
the WTO website now covers most non-tariff measures
(NTMs) notiﬁed to the WTO. I-TIP (http://i-tip.wto.org) provides
a single entry point for notiﬁcations on trade policy measures.
These notiﬁcations include trade contingency measures
(such as anti-dumping), technical measures (such as sanitary
and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers to trade),
quantitative (import or export) restrictions, import licences and
pre-shipment inspections, and NTMs relating to the Agreement
on Agriculture.
Recent improvements to I-TIP include increased data coverage
and enhanced search functions. Users can now search the
entire range of NTMs, sorting data by imposing and affected
country, product or type of measure. Graphs illustrate
current trends while comprehensive tables are available by
product and imposing country. Product searches can also
be undertaken by Harmonized System codes (see page 55)
or codes of the International Classiﬁcation for Standards.
The goods and services sections of I-TIP attract up to
20,000 visits per month.

Background on statistics activities
The Statistics Group supports WTO members
and the Secretariat with data on economic and
trade policy issues. The Group is the principal
supplier of WTO trade statistics and information
on tariffs. It provides technical assistance in
advanced trade policy courses, regional trade policy
courses and national workshops and contributes
to inter-organizational statistical activities.

Collaboration with the World Bank
and UNCTAD
The World Bank and the WTO are working to substantially
increase information on services trade policies applied
by WTO members. I-TIP services (http://i-tip.wto.org/
services), jointly developed with the World Bank, offers
a set of linked databases providing information on WTO
members’ commitments under the General Agreement on
Trade in Services (GATS), services commitments in regional
trade agreements (RTAs), applied measures in services,
and services statistics. The integrated database, launched in
2013, permits searches by WTO member, sector, agreement
or source of information. The information can be ﬁltered across
a number of additional criteria.
The WTO strengthened technical assistance collaboration
with the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD), building on the memorandum of
understanding signed in 2013 to share and cross-validate
information on non-tariff measures and encourage the use
of common standards and classiﬁcations.
The 2015 edition of World Tariff Proﬁles, co-published with
UNCTAD and the International Trade Centre (ITC), included
a focus on anti-dumping measures based on WTO members’
notiﬁcations available in I-TIP and information from the World
Bank’s Global Antidumping Database.

Trade Data Day
In July 2015, the Statistics Group hosted Trade Data
Day, a collaborative effort with the ITC, UNCTAD and the
World Bank. The seminar examined the main advances in
trade and market access statistics and looked ahead to
future challenges. The seminar focused in particular on the
monitoring and analysis of non-tariff measures, and trade and
market access information systems on commercial services.
The event highlighted the need to improve the quality of
trade statistics and to work more on new areas such as
trade in value-added terms and services trade by enterprise

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics

160

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 164 End-----------------------

Trade Data Day was
co-organized by
the WTO and the
International Trade
Centre, the UN
Conference on Trade
and Development
and the World Bank
in July 2015.

Collaboration with the OECD
The OECD-WTO database on Trade in Value Added (TiVA)
was updated in 2015, with coverage extended to 61 countries
(adding, for the ﬁrst time, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia
and Tunisia). It now covers 34 sectors, up from 18 in 2014,
and includes data for 2010 and 2011.
Measuring trade in terms of value added gives a clearer picture
of today’s way of trading. Traditional statistics that rely on
customs values fail to capture the fact that international supply
chains are at the core of globalization in the 21st century.
In January 2016, the WTO released new statistical proﬁles on
global value chains (GVCs) for the 61 economies covered by
the database. These proﬁles, available on the WTO website,
provide insights into the value-added content of exports,
the interconnection between economies within GVCs and the
role of the services industry in exports. Other indicators related
to GVCs include trade in intermediate goods, trade facilitation
and foreign direct investment.
The OECD and the WTO are working to improve the
estimation of bilateral trade ﬂows through the IMF’s Extended
Balance of Payments Services Classiﬁcation. The WTO is also
working with the OECD and other organizations, such as the
United Nations, to tackle the issue of bilateral asymmetries.
What one country reports as imports from another country
often differs signiﬁcantly from what the second country
reports as exports. These asymmetries, especially for services,

are signiﬁcant. Inter-agency co-operation on this should help
to reduce these asymmetries.
The WTO is cooperating with the OECD and UN regional
commissions in Africa and Latin America to promote the
compilation of ofﬁcial statistics needed to extend the coverage
of the value-added database in these regions.
In cooperation with the WTO’s Institute for Training and
Technical Cooperation (ITTC) (see page 132), training
workshops were organized for government ofﬁcials and
researchers in developing countries (Mali, Indonesia and
Jordan), with the aim of integrating trade in value added into
their trade and development policies.

Task Force on International Trade Statistics
The Task Force on International Trade Statistics, co-chaired by
OECD and the WTO, met in 2015 in Paris. The task force is
the result of a merger between two previously existing bodies,
the Task Force on International Merchandise Trade Statistics
and the Task Force on Statistics on International Trade in
Services. These two bodies used to meet jointly on a regular
basis, reﬂecting the interconnectedness and overlap between
trade in goods and trade in services. To better coordinate
activities, the two task forces were merged.
Outreach

characteristics (STEC). The rise of global value chains has
resulted in a growing emphasis on measuring and analysing
trade in value added. These statistics consider the value added
by each country in the production of goods and services that
are consumed worldwide.

Support for ITA negotiations
The Statistics Group assisted the WTO’s Market Access
Division in providing members of the Information Technology
Agreement (ITA) with relevant data on trade and tariffs and
in verifying draft schedules of commitments during the
negotiations to expand the coverage of the ITA. In December,
participants in the ITA expansion negotiations announced the
conclusion of the talks, with the addition of 201 IT products to
the list of items covered by the Agreement (see page 47).

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

161

-----------------------Page 165 End-----------------------

Outreach

WTO Essay Award for Young
Economists
The 7th WTO Essay Award for Young Economists went to Christoph Boehm, Aaron Flaaen and Nitya
Pandalai-Nayar for their joint paper on the role that global supply chains play in the cross-country
transmission of shocks. The winners shared the prize of CHF 5,000. The prize winners were
announced on 10 September 2015 at the annual meeting of the European Trade Study Group in Paris.

I

n their paper entitled “Input Linkages and the Transmission
of Shocks: Firm-Level Evidence from the 2011 Tohoku
Earthquake”, Christoph Boehm, Aaron Flaaen and Nitya
Pandalai-Nayar look at the consequences of the Japanese
earthquake on US imports. The paper ﬁnds that US ﬁrms most
reliant on inputs from Japan (Japanese afﬁliates) suffered large
drops in their US output in the months following the shock,
roughly one-for-one with the drop in imports.
The effects are large because these ﬁrms largely engaged
in intra-ﬁrm input trade. The inputs involved ﬁrm-speciﬁc
knowledge and capabilities that could not easily be substituted
by other inputs or suppliers.
In the judgment of the selection panel, the paper “contributes
importantly to our understanding of the way shocks
are propagated through the modern global economy.
Its ﬁndings are striking, but convincing, and have important
implications not only for trade and foreign direct investment,
but also for international macro (economics)”. Understanding
cross-country propagation mechanisms is key to assessing the
impact of trade policy changes and the context in which WTO
rules and disciplines apply, they added.

Aaron Flaaen (www.aaronﬂaaen.com) is from the United
States. He studied Economics and International Business at
the University of South Carolina and holds an MA and PhD
in Economics from the University of Michigan. He is currently
an economist at the Federal Reserve Board of Governors in
Washington D.C.
Nitya Pandalai-Nayar (www.nityapandalainayar.com) is from
India. She studied Mathematics and Economics at Wellesley
College and holds a M.Sc. in Economics from the London
School of Economics. She is a PhD candidate in economics at
the University of Michigan (expected 2016).

Academic Selection Panel
The Academic Selection Panel comprised Dr Avinash Dixit
(Emeritus Professor of Economics, Princeton University),
Dr Robert Koopman (Director, Economic Research and
Statistics Division, WTO), Dr Robert Staiger (Professor
of Economics, Dartmouth College) and Dr Alberto Trejos
(Professor of Economics, INCAE Business School).
Dr Roberta Piermartini (Counsellor, Economic Research and
Statistics Division, WTO) coordinated the work of the panel.

Christoph Boehm (www.christopheboehm.com) is from
Germany. He studied Business Management and Engineering
at Dresden University of Technology and holds an MA in
Economics from the University of Michigan and from Tufts
University. He is a PhD candidate in economics at the
University of Michigan (expected 2016).

Background on the WTO Essay Award for
Young Economists
The WTO established the annual WTO Essay
Award for Young Economists in 2009. The award,
which carries a prize of CHF 5,000, aims to promote
high-quality economic research on the WTO and
WTO-related issues and to reinforce the relationship
between the WTO and the academic community.

Roberta
Piermartini
(WTO
Counsellor)
presents the
2015 WTO
Essay Award
to co-winner
Aaron Flaaen.

WTO Essay Award for Young Economists
www.wto.org/research

162

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 166 End-----------------------

Cooperation with academic
institutions
Members of the WTO’s Chairs Programme presented case studies on how reducing trade costs
can boost growth at the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade in July and at the Public Forum in
October. Chairs arranged a number of workshops and were active in several conferences
during 2015. Their annual reports showed that the programme’s objectives are being met.
The WTO implemented 12 activities under the Academic Support Programme, which aims to
support academic institutions from developing countries that are not part of the
Chairs Programme.

The Annual Conference of the WTO Chairs Programme (WCP),
held on 2-3 November 2015, took stock of its achievements and
heard a call by WTO Deputy Director-General Xiaozhun Yi for
a ﬁrmer connection between the research priorities of the WTO
and those of the chairs. He noted some immediate short-term
research priorities, including work on small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs), which will be the subject of the 2016 World
Trade Report (see page 153).
Following a call from the WTO Secretariat for papers on
“Reducing Trade Costs for Inclusive, Sustainable Growth”,
the theme of the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade (see
page 126), a number of chairs presented case studies at
the event in July and at the WTO Public Forum in October.
A book on “Trade costs and inclusive growth”, drawing on the
presentations, is due to be published by the WTO in 2016.
The Chairs Programme, initiated in 2010 and now with 21
participating institutions, aims to enhance understanding
of the multilateral trading system and WTO issues among
academics and students in developing countries and to

Background on the WTO Chairs Programme

The WTO Chairs Programme aims to support
and promote trade-related academic activities by
universities and research institutions in developing
and least-developed countries. Fourteen institutions
were selected as WTO Chairs for a four-year term
in 2009. An additional seven institutions were
selected for phase II of the programme in 2014.

encourage dialogue between policy makers and academics.
The programme is implemented through partnership
agreements between the WTO and selected institutions. It is
jointly managed by the Economic Research and Statistics
Division (ERSD) and the Institute for Training and Technical
Cooperation (ITTC).

21
The Chairs Programme, initiated in 2010,
has 21 participating academic institutions.

At the Public Forum (see page 140), a workshop was
held on the experiences of academic institutions in the
Chairs Programme. It discussed lessons learned from their
participation in the programme, the main challenges, how the
chairs make policy recommendations, and what further support
could be provided to the chairs. Chairs from the Getulio
Vargas Foundation in Sao Paolo, Istanbul Bilgi University and
the University of West Indies in Barbados made presentations
on how academics can work with policy makers to develop
better trade policies.
The WTO managers of the programme made two
presentations on activities undertaken in the areas of research,
curricula development and outreach, and on research projects

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

163

Outreach

WTO Chairs Programme

-----------------------Page 167 End-----------------------

Outreach

that the WTO will be undertaking in 2016. The managers
encouraged the chairs to send in case studies for the 2016
WTO World Trade Report on small business. The chairs
were also invited to develop a collection of case studies on
trade costs and poverty on topics such as the rural poor,
workers in the informal economy, women and people living
in fragile states.

Universities participating in the WTO
Chairs Programme
Phase I Chairs
Phase II Chairs

Workshops and conferences
Chairs arranged a number of workshops and were active in
several conferences during 2015. In July, the Getulio Vargas
Foundation held a workshop on “WTO Dispute Settlement
after 20 Years”, bringing together almost 50 participants,
including government representatives. Another workshop was
conducted in Santiago by the University of Chile (a member
of the programme) and REDLAS (the Latin American Network
for Research on Services) to address the role of services
in economic development, international trade and global
value chains.
A conference on “WTO and Health: The Law and Policy of
Traditional Chinese Medicine” was held in Shanghai, China,
co-sponsored by the Shanghai University of International
Business and Economics, a programme member. The WCP’s
ﬁfth conference on “Trade Facilitation in the Arab Region” was
organized by another chair, the University of Jordan, and its
School of Business in Amman in October. It focused on the
importance of reducing trade costs to increase productivity
and the role of trade facilitation in reducing these costs.

Mexico City, Mexico
Autonomous Institute of
Technology, Centre for
International Economic Law

St. Michael, Barbados
University of the West Indies,
Shridath Ramphal Centre
for International Trade Law,
Policy and Services

Second phase
All the chairs provide annual reports on activities undertaken
and progress achieved during the year. In 2014, seven new
chairs were added to the 14 already existing. The new chairs
in phase II of the programme receive up to CHF 50,000 to
support their activities in the programme. In addition, seven
chairs from phase I received a fresh grant of up to CHF 10,000
after successfully submitting proposals on capacity-building
projects on trade policy and WTO matters. The programme is
funded by the Netherlands.
All chairs in phase I continue to beneﬁt from scientiﬁc and
trade-related technical assistance support. They were
requested to complete an online report of their activities and
outputs related to the programme. The reports highlighted the
value of the programme in contributing to their activities.
In terms of phase II chairs, the reports conﬁrm that most chairs
are meeting the objectives of the activity and budget plans they
submitted and have strengthened their activities on trade and
WTO issues at both the national and international level.

Academic Support Programme
In 2015, the WTO implemented 12 activities under the
Academic Support Programme in WTO member countries
and in countries seeking to join the WTO. The aim of the

São Paulo, Brazil
Getulio Vargas Foundation,
São Paulo School of Economics

Santiago, Chile
University of Chile, Institute
of International Studies

Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Latin American Faculty of
Social Sciences (FLACSO)

programme is to support academic institutions from developing
and least-developed countries that are not part of the WTO
Chairs Programme.
Activities included WTO staff lecturing on WTO issues in a
number of universities. The WTO also supported university
competitions on WTO law by providing staff to act as
panellists in regional inter-university competitions.

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

164

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 168 End-----------------------

Istanbul, Turkey

St. Petersburg, Russia

Shanghai, China

Istanbul Bilgi University

St. Petersburg State University,
Faculty of Economics, World
Economy Department

Shanghai Institute of Foreign
Trade (SIFT), School of WTO
Research and Education

El Mourouj, Tunisia
University of Tunis, Tunis
Business School

Amman, Jordan
University of Jordan, Faculty
of Business

Rabat, Morocco
Mohammed V-Souissi
University, Faculty of Legal,
Economic and Social Sciences

Muscat, Oman
Sultan Qaboos University

Nairobi, Kenya

Singapore

University of Nairobi, School
of Economics

National University of
Singapore, Faculty of Law

Dakar, Senegal
Cheikh Anta Diop University,
Faculty of Economics
and Management

Réduit, Mauritius
University Abomey-Calavi

Windhoek, Namibia
University of Namibia,
Faculty of Economics and
Management Sciences

University of Mauritius,
Department of Economics
and Statistics

Yogyakarta, Indonesia
Universitas Gadjah Mada,
Centre for World Trade Studies

Potchefstroom,
South Africa

Tangerang, Indonesia

North-West University

University Pelita Harapan

The WTO funded the participation of two African teams
to the ﬁnal round on 2-7 June of a competition involving
simulated WTO panel proceedings. The event was organized
by the European Law Students’ Association (ELSA), with the
support of the WTO and its legal divisions, and was held at
WTO headquarters. The winner of the competition was the
West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, India,
with the National Law University, Jodhpur, India, the runner-up.

The programme also provided WTO publications to universities
and organized presentations to academic audiences together
with the WTO Reference Centres Programme (see page 134).
The WTO continued to encourage universities to register
lecturers as participants in online courses offered by the
WTO’s e-learning tool, E-campus (see page 134).

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

165

Outreach

Cotonou, Benin

-----------------------Page 169 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
>

The WTO has 647 staff on its regular budget.

>

The number of nationalities represented in the WTO
Secretariat rose to 80 in 2015, up from 78.

>

The WTO’s total budget for 2016 is CHF 197,203,900.

>

An Office of Internal Oversight was established in November to provide
for an independent and objective assessment of management practices,
expenses, budgetary control and any allegations of misconduct.

-----------------------Page 170 End-----------------------

168

New recruits

168

WTO Secretariat organizational chart

169

Allocation of staff by division

170

WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender

171

WTO staff on regular budget by gender

171

WTO staff on regular budget by gender and nationality

172

Budget, finance and administration

174

Consolidated expenditure 2015

175

Consolidated budget 2016

175

Members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the WTO
Secretariat and the Appellate Body Secretariat 2016

176

Background on Secretariat
outreach and budget
The WTO Secretariat
maintains regular
has over
dialogue
600 regular
with non-governmental
staff
who coordinate theorganizations,
activities of the
parliamentarians,
WTO.
Most of theother
WTO’s
international
annual budget
organizations,
consists
of contributions
the media and
by its
the
members.
general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Secretariat
and budget

WTO Secretariat

-----------------------Page 171 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

WTO Secretariat
The number of nationalities represented in the WTO Secretariat rose to 80 in 2015, up from 78
the year before. The number of staff on the regular budget rose to 647, from 634 in 2014, with
women continuing to outnumber men. The Secretariat is headed by Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo, who took office for a four-year term on 1 September 2013. The four Deputy
Directors-General began their terms of office on 1 October 2013. They are Yonov Frederick
Agah of Nigeria, Karl Brauner of Germany, David Shark of the United States and Xiaozhun Yi
of China (see Figure 1).

W

TO Secretariat staff members come from 80 WTO
member countries (see Figure 5). The staff is
composed mostly of economists, lawyers and others with a
specialization in international trade policy. Staff also include
other professions required to carry out the daily operations
of the organization in areas such as information technology,
statistics, ﬁnance, human resources and language services.

Background on the WTO Secretariat

Secretariat staff on the regular budget comprise professional
and support service categories. The professional staff
accounts for 60 per cent of the total and support service
staff 40 per cent. Women outnumber men at the WTO by
347 to 300. Of the professional staff, 44 per cent are female
and 56 per cent male (see Figures 2, 3 and 4). The working
languages of the WTO are English, French and Spanish.
The Human Resources Division continues to respond to the
evolving needs of the Secretariat, assisting in the reallocation
of resources to new or high priority areas of work. In 2015,
the workload of the legal divisions continued to rise due to
the high number of disputes being ﬁled by WTO members.

New recruits
Sroda Bédarida
Interpreter | Languages, Documentation
and Information Management Division
Nationality: French/Ghanaian
Joining date: 14 September 2015
After working for more than 20 years as
a freelance interpreter in Europe and
Africa, I saw the vacancy notice for a staff
interpreter at the WTO and thought “Why
not give it a try?” I had never worked for
the WTO so I was interested in getting to
know the organization. I was thrilled when
I received an email offering me the position
last summer and could hardly wait to start
work in September.
As a freelance interpreter, what I enjoyed
most about the work was the variety of
topics. One day I would be talking about

The WTO Secretariat has no decision-making
powers; all decisions are taken by WTO members.
The Secretariat supplies technical and professional
support for WTO councils and committees and
technical assistance for developing countries.
It monitors and analyses developments in world
trade, provides information to the public and the
media, and organizes the ministerial conferences.
The Secretariat also provides legal assistance
in the dispute settlement process and advises
governments seeking to become members of
the WTO. The WTO’s recruitment policy is
based on the principle of equal opportunity for
all, with the objective of ensuring the broadest
possible diversiﬁcation of the WTO Secretariat.

“We contribute to ensuring smooth communication and, hopefully,
better understanding among WTO members in meetings 
”
education and health, and the next I would
be dealing with macroeconomic frameworks
or electricity production and distribution.
In my new role at the WTO, as a staff
interpreter, I enjoy being part of the highly
skilled in-house team as well as working with
very professional freelance colleagues on a
wide range of topics.
We contribute to ensuring smooth
communication and, hopefully, better
understanding among WTO members in
meetings. I started working at a time when
intense negotiations were already under way
in preparation for the Ministerial Conference.
It was stimulating to be involved at such an
important time, and I was thrilled we were
able to obtain a positive outcome in Nairobi.

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

168

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 172 End-----------------------

In addition to the 15 posts added to the legal divisions in
2014, the Director-General has agreed to a further increase
of 14 new posts (see page 111) for these divisions.
The recruitment process is currently under way to ﬁll the
new positions, which have been allocated at various grades.
Currently, the number of staff working in the legal divisions
stands at 20 in the Appellate Body, 27 in the Legal Affairs
Division and 26 in the Rules Division, up from 17, 23 and
20 respectively in 2014. The measures take into account the
limitations imposed by WTO members, including the overall
cap on the budget, and are being met by reallocating vacated
posts from elsewhere in the WTO Secretariat.
Another role of the Human Resources Division is to enhance
the performance and effectiveness of WTO staff and to
support a work environment that is both engaging and
conducive to developing the professional skills of staff.

In 2015, it introduced an upward feedback exercise to allow
WTO staff to provide feedback to their managers. The aim of
the exercise was to help managers and management teams
reﬂect on their management performance and develop their
skills, with the appropriate guidance and training.
The WTO Staff Council, elected by staff members,
promotes the interests of all staff within the Secretariat,
provides staff with a forum for issues of concern,
increases staff understanding of their rights and duties,
represents the interests of staff and presents staff views
to senior management.
In November an Ofﬁce of Internal Oversight was established
to provide for an independent and objective assessment of
management practices, expenses, budgetary control and any
allegations of misconduct. It takes over the functions formerly
exercised by the Ofﬁce of Internal Audit.

Figure 1: WTO Secretariat organizational chart, as of 31 December 2015

Deputy
Director- General
Yonov Frederick
Agah

Karl Brauner

Trade Policies
Review

Legal Affairs

Willy Alfaro

Director- General
Roberto Azevêdo

Deputy
Director- General

Valerie Hughes

Chef de Cabinet
Tim Yeend

Rules

Shishir
Priyadarshi

Johannes
Human

Deputy
Director- General

David Shark

Xiaozhun Yi

Agriculture and
Commodities
Information
and External
Relations
Keith Rockwell

Development

Deputy
Director- General

Appellate Body
Secretariat
Werner Zdouc

Office of Internal
Audit

Evan Rogerson

Market Access
Suja Rishikesh

Maria Ramona
David (interim)

Trade and
Environment

Council
and Trade
Negotiations
Committee

Trade in
Services

Aik Hoe Lim

Hamid
Mamdouh

Accessions

Intellectual
Property,
Government
Procurement and
Competition

Victor Do Prado

Bridget Chilala

Administration
and General
Services
Nthisana
Phillips

Human
Resources
Christian
Dahoui

Chiedu Osakwe

Antony Taubman

Information
Technology
Solutions
Fabrice Boudou

Economic
Research and
Statistics
Robert
Koopman

Secretariat
and budget

Institute for
Training and
Technical
Cooperation

Languages,
Documentation
and Information
Management
Juan Mesa

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

169

-----------------------Page 173 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Figure 2: Allocation of staff by division, as of 31 December 2015 (number of posts)*
Grades 1-10
Senior Management (DG, DDGs and their assistants)

Senior management and directors

Total

5.0

Accessions Division

10.0

7.8

8.8

Administration and General Services Division

67.7

Agriculture and Commodities Division

68.7

18.0

19.0

Office of the Director-General

12.0

13.0

Council and Trade Negotiations Committee Division

13.0

14.0

Development Division

18.8

19.8

Economic Research and Statistics Division

40.8

Human Resources Division

42.8

21.0

Intellectual Property Division

22.0

14.3

Legal Affairs Division

15.3
27.0

Market Access Division

29.0

16.8

Rules Division

17.8
25.6

Trade and Environment Division

26.6

10.8

Trade in Services Division

11.8

15.8

16.8

Trade Policies Review Division

49.9

Information and External Relations Division

51.9

28.8

29.8

Languages, Documentation and Information Management Division

125.3

Information Technology Solutions Division

126.3

42.8

Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation

43.8

34.3

Office of Internal Oversight

35.3

1.0

2.0

Appellate Body Secretariat

20.0

0

20

21.0

40

60

80

100

120

616.5

140
29

645.5

*Includes posts not yet ﬁlled. Figures in decimals indicate staff members who work a percentage of the working week (e.g. 80 per cent).

New recruits
Seref Gokay Coskun
Technical Trade Specialist |
Rules Division
Nationality: Turkish
Joining date: 6 October 2015
Before joining the WTO, my interest in it
was not only professional; as an academic
in international relations, I had always
admired it because of its exceptional
structure and unique success in global
economic relations. With this in mind, I left
my ten-year career as a practitioner without
hesitation to join the WTO and serve the
international community.
Previously, I was Head of Section at
the Dumping and Countervailing Duties
Investigations Department of Turkey’s
Ministry of the Economy. As a practitioner,

“Before joining the WTO ... I had always admired it because of its
exceptional structure and unique success in global economic relations 
”
I was actively involved in Turkey’s trade
policy implementation, and conducted
several trade remedy investigations. I also
contributed to Turkey’s efforts to comply
with WTO rules as I was responsible for
monitoring Turkey’s notiﬁcation obligations
under WTO agreements.
At the WTO, I mainly deal with technical
or policy issues arising in the work of
WTO bodies in the areas under the
responsibility of the Rules Division.
My particular responsibilities range from
conducting research and supporting
committee chairs to providing assistance
for dispute settlement panels. I also
provide training on issues within the Rules
Division’s responsibility.

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

170

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 174 End-----------------------

Figure 3: WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender, as of 31 December 2015
4

4
5

31

16

1

DDG

DG

24

13

33

2

21
58

19

60

347

300

64

Women

Grades

Men

30

20
53
39

43
75

32

DG
DDG
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2

Figure 4: WTO staff on regular budget by gender, as of 31 December 2015

48

Women

34

Men

Director-General
Director-General
Ofﬁce of the Director-General
Appellate Body Secretariat
Council and Trade
Negotiations
Committee Division
Information and External
Relations Division
Ofﬁce of Internal Audit

57

76

117

49

Women

Women

Women

Women

55

72

94

45

Men

Men

Men

Men

Deputy
Director-General 1

Deputy
Director-General 2

Deputy
Director-General 3

Deputy
Director-General 4

Ofﬁce of Deputy
Director-General 1

Ofﬁce of Deputy
Director-General 2

Ofﬁce of Deputy
Director-General 3

Ofﬁce of Deputy
Director-General 4

Development Division

Administration and General
Services Division

Accessions Division

Economic Research and
Statistics Division

Institute for Training and
Technical Cooperation
Trade Policies Review Division

Human Resources Division
Legal Affairs Division
Rules Division

Agriculture and
Commodities Division

Intellectual Property Division

Information Technology
Solutions Division

Trade in Services Division

Market Access Division

Languages, Documentation
and Information
Management Division

Secretariat
and budget

Trade and
Environment Division

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

171

-----------------------Page 175 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Figure 5: WTO staff on regular budget by gender and nationality, as of 31 December 2015

347 women, 300 men
Total 647

North America
Member

Women Men

Total

Canada
Mexico
United States

6
3
21

16
5
12

22
8
33

Grand total

30

33

63

South/Central America
Member
Argentina
Barbados
Bolivia, Plurinational
State of
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Ecuador
Guatemala
Honduras
Paraguay
Peru
Saint Lucia
Trinidad and Tobago
Uruguay
Venezuela, Bolivarian
Republic of

80
Secretariat staff includes people
from 80 WTO members

Grand total

New recruits
Jessica Hermosa
Information Officer | Information and
External Relations Division
Nationality: Filipino
Joining date: 24 August 2015
I got to learn about the intricacies of the
WTO through my ﬁrst job as a reporter in
the Philippines, covering trade issues. It was
in this role that I grew to appreciate the
WTO’s work. In 2010, I attended one of the
WTO’s information seminars in Geneva for
journalists and that was it – I knew trade and
the WTO were for me.
After covering trade news for four years
as a journalist at the Philippine newspaper
“BusinessWorld”, I completed a Master’s
degree in International Political Economy at
the University of Birmingham in the United
Kingdom. The subject of my dissertation was
the WTO dispute settlement system. I then
went back to the Philippines and worked

Women Men

Total

4
0

6
1

10
1

1

1

2

4
2
4
1
1
1
2
2
1
5
0
1
0

8
0
6
1
0
1
0
0
0
4
1
0
5

12
2
10
2
1
2
2
2
1
9
1
1
5

1

4

5

30

38

68

“It was an amazing experience to witness at first hand such an important
outcome as the Nairobi Package 
”
in economic policy research and outreach
for the Department of Trade and Industry,
and also for Ernst & Young.
The values and integrity of the WTO,
as well as the renowned excellence of the
Secretariat, were my chief motivations
for joining the organization. Within the
Information and External Relations Division,
I liaise with the press and the general public
and monitor developments in various trade
issues. I also contribute to the WTO’s social
media output.
Shortly after joining, I became part of the
team that reported on trade negotiations
in the run-up to and during the Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi. It was an amazing
experience to witness at ﬁrst hand such an
important outcome as the Nairobi Package.

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

172

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 176 End-----------------------

Europe
Member
Albania
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Ireland
Italy

Women Men
1
2
3
1
2
1
1
3
99
7
3
0
11
10

0
3
2
4
0
1
0
3
72
12
2
2
1
10

Total
1
5
5
5
2
2
1
6
171
19
5
2
12
20

Member
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian
Federation
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Turkey
Ukraine
United
Kingdom
Grand total

Women Men

Total

1
0
2
1
2

4
2
1
3
0

5
2
3
4
2

2

0

2

30
1
19
2
1

11
2
12
2
0

41
3
31
4
1

41

13

54

246

162

408

Asia
Member
Bangladesh
China
India
Japan
Jordan
Korea, Republic of
Malaysia
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Sri Lanka
Grand total

Women Men

Total

0
7
2
2
1
4
0
0
0
6
0

1
7
10
2
0
0
2
1
3
8
1

1
14
12
4
1
4
2
1
3
14
1

22

35

57

Africa
Member

Total

0
1
0

2
0
1

2
1
1

1

1

2

3
0
0
1
0
0
1

2
1
1
0
1
2
3

5
1
1
1
1
2
4

Member

Women Men

Total

Nigeria
Rwanda
Senegal
South Africa
Tanzania
The Gambia
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia

0
0
0
0
1
1
2
2
1

2
1
1
1
0
0
3
0
0

2
1
1
1
1
1
5
2
1

Zimbabwe

2

0

2

Grand total

16

22

38

Oceania
Member

Women Men

Total

Australia
New Zealand

3
0

9
1

12
1

Grand total

3

10

13

Secretariat
and budget

Benin
Botswana
Chad
Democratic
Republic of
the Congo
Egypt
Ghana
Guinea
Kenya
Malawi
Mauritius
Morocco

Women Men

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

173

-----------------------Page 177 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Budget, finance and
administration
The Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration reviewed reports on the financial and
budgetary situation of the WTO and continued its discussion of the Strategic Review of the
organization, which was launched in 2013. An Office of Internal Insight (OIO) was established
in November.

D

irector-General Roberto Azevêdo presented the WTO
Financial Performance Report to the Committee on
Budget, Finance and Administration, which also received a
report from the External Auditor. The Committee examined
these reports and proposed to the General Council the
approval of the 2014 audited accounts.
As part of the Strategic Review process, which was launched
by DG Azevêdo in 2013, the DG implemented three
amendments to WTO staff rules, which were presented to the
Committee. These cover the legal protection of Staff Council
members, staff assistance and representation, and statements
of reason for an administrative decision. The Committee will
continue its discussion on the Strategic Review in 2016.
The Working Group on After Service Health Insurance
(ASHI), established by the Committee in 2014, completed its
work on future liabilities resulting from providing subsidized
health insurance to WTO retirees. It delivered a report
with recommendations in the second half of the year.
The recommendations included asking the Director-General
to develop a strategy proposal, within 12 months, to ensure
the long-term sustainability of the WTO medical insurance
plan and related ASHI beneﬁts. The recommendations were
endorsed by the Committee, which set up a new working
group to monitor the development of a strategy on this issue.

Background on budget, ﬁnance
and administration
The Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration
monitors the WTO’s budgetary and ﬁnancial situation,
including matters relating to the receipt of contributions,
and undertakes any function assigned to it by WTO
members. It considers issues concerning human
resources management, hears progress reports on
the WTO pension plan and deals with ﬁnancial and
administrative matters concerning the WTO Secretariat.
The Committee reports to the General Council.

The Committee examined the WTO Secretariat’s proposal
to establish a building renovation fund. The purpose of the
fund would be to ﬁnance the costs of necessary building
and infrastructure maintenance, including the costs of future
projects undertaken to improve the WTO site.
The Committee reviewed, on a quarterly basis, reports on the
ﬁnancial and budgetary situation of the WTO, including the
arrears of contributions from WTO members and the WTO
pension plan. It took note of the annual report on diversity
in the WTO Secretariat, the staff learning programme and
the human resources annual report on grading structure
and promotions.
To align with the new requirements imposed by the
implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting
Standards (IPSAS) in 2012, the Committee approved
the revision of the WTO Financial Regulations proposed
by the Working Group on WTO Financial Regulations.
The Management Board of the WTO Pension Plan submitted
recommendations to address an actuarial imbalance
resulting from the introduction of IPSAS and to provide some
technical clariﬁcations in the plan’s regulations. This proposal
was endorsed and forwarded to the General Council,
with the recommendation that the changes take effect as
of 1 January 2016.
An Ofﬁce of Internal Oversight (OIO) was established in
November to provide for an independent and objective
assessment of management practices, expenses, budgetary
control and allegations of misconduct in all its forms.
The functions formerly exercised by the Ofﬁce of Internal
Audit are being assumed by the OIO.
The establishment of the OIO followed a recommendation
of the External Auditor and the Strategic Review, which saw
a need to reinforce the independent status of the existing
Ofﬁce of Internal Audit and to expand its responsibilities to
include investigations within the WTO. It is expected that the
establishment of the OIO will contribute to strengthening
accountability, internal controls, compliance, value for
money and governance in the WTO Secretariat. In addition,
the Committee set up a working group to investigate whether
the Organization should have an Audit Committee.

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

174

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 178 End-----------------------

The Committee recommended the General Council approve
pro-rata contributions for Seychelles, which became the
WTO’s 161st member in April 2015. Also, the Committee
proposed the General Council approve the 2016-17 budget
proposals for the WTO and the International Trade Centre
(ITC) as well as the 2016-17 Technical Assistance and Training
Plan. The ITC received a 1.65 per cent increase in its budget,
which has been absorbed by the WTO budget. The WTO
budget remained at zero nominal growth.

WTO budget 2016
The WTO derives its income from annual contributions from
its 162 members (see Tables 1, 2 and 3) and miscellaneous
income. These contributions are based on a formula that
takes into account each member’s share of international trade.
Miscellaneous income mainly consists of contributions from
observer countries, income from the sale of publications and
rental of meeting rooms.

The WTO’s budget for 2016 is:

WTO Secretariat:

Appellate Body and its secretariat:

The total WTO budget is

CHF 189,713,000

CHF 7,490,900

CHF 197,203,900

Table 1: Consolidated expenditure, as at 31 December 2015
Budget (in
thousand CHF)

Expenditure (in
thousand CHF)

131,415,300

127,431,563

3,983,737

17,167,050

18,700,855

-1,533,805

15,600,700

14,771,105

829,595

7,480,800

6,803,042

677,758

273,000

231,309

41,691

Capital expenditure (including procurement of ﬁxed assets and rental and leasing of equipment)

2,966,650

2,369,564

597,086

Financial expenditure (including bank and interest charges and building loan reimbursement)

1,230,000

1,268,557

-38,557

21,070,400

21,070,400

0

197,203,900

192,646,394

4,557,506

Section
Staff expenditure (including staff remuneration, pension and post-employment beneﬁts, health and
invalidity insurance, family and international beneﬁts)
Temporary assistance (including short-term staff, consultants, panellists and Appellate Body
member fees)
General services (including telecommunications and post, contractual services and maintenance,
energy and supplies, documentation and publication)
Travel and hospitality
Implementing partners (includes any activity or event partly/jointly/fully funded by the WTO but
executed by a third-party organization)

Contributions to International Trade Centre and special reserves (including Appellate Body
operating fund and Ministerial Conference operating fund)
Grand total

Balance (in
thousand CHF)

* These figures have not yet been audited.

Table 2: Consolidated budget for 2016
Staff expenditure

Budget 2016 (in thousand CHF)
131,415

Temporary assistance

17,289

General services

15,331

Travel and hospitality
Implementing partners
Capital expenditure
Financial expenditure
Contributions to International Trade Centre and special reserves
Grand total

7,351
213

Secretariat
and budget

Section

2,350
1,280
21,975

197,204

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

175

-----------------------Page 179 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Table 3: Members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the WTO Secretariat and the
Appellate Body Secretariat 2016
(in Swiss Francs and with a minimum contribution of 0.015%)
Member

2016
Contribution %

Member

2016 Contribution
CHF

2016
Contribution %

Albania

48,875

0.025%

Ecuador

234,600

0.120%

Angola

504,390

0.258%

Egypt

541,535

0.277%

76,245

0.039%

29,325

0.015%

El Salvador

805,460

0.412%

Estonia

33,235

0.017%

European Union1

Australia

2,772,190

1.418%

Fiji

Austria

2,046,885

1.047%

Finland

Bahrain, Kingdom of

170,085

0.087%

France

7,606,905

3.891%

Bangladesh

287,385

0.147%

Gabon

64,515

0.033%

29,325

0.015%

The Gambia

29,325

0.015%

3,884,585

1.987%

Georgia

62,560

0.032%

29,325

0.015%

Germany

14,805,215

7.573%

Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia

Barbados
Belgium
Belize

175,950

0.090%

0

0.000%

29,325

0.015%

983,365

0.503%

Benin

29,325

0.015%

Ghana

148,580

0.076%

Bolivia, Plurinational State of

86,020

0.044%

Greece

692,070

0.354%

Botswana

64,515

0.033%

Grenada

29,325

0.015%

2,568,870

1.314%

Guatemala

138,805

0.071%

72,335

0.037%

Guinea

29,325

0.015%

Brazil
Brunei Darussalam

318,665

0.163%

Guinea-Bissau

29,325

0.015%

Burkina Faso

29,325

0.015%

Guyana

29,325

0.015%

Burundi

29,325

0.015%

Haiti

29,325

0.015%

Cabo Verde

29,325

0.015%

Honduras

78,200

0.040%

Cambodia

82,110

0.042%

Hong Kong, China

5,126,010

2.622%

1,067,430

0.546%

Bulgaria

Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic

70,380

0.036%

Hungary

5,069,315

2.593%

Iceland

29,325

0.015%

India

60,605

0.031%

4,371,380

2.236%

Chad

48,875

0.025%

Indonesia

1,788,825

0.915%

Chile

791,775

0.405%

Ireland

1,955,000

1.000%

China

17,927,350

9.170%

Israel

561,085

0.287%

Italy

89,930

0.046%

Jamaica

Costa Rica

132,940

0.068%

Japan

8,476,880

4.336%

Côte d’Ivoire

101,660

0.052%

Jordan

164,220

0.084%

Croatia

240,465

0.123%

Kazakhstan

631,465

0.323%

Cuba

148,580

0.076%

Kenya

111,435

0.057%

Cyprus

107,525

0.055%

Korea, Republic of

5,890,415

3.013%

1,407,600

0.720%

Kuwait, the State of

Colombia
Congo

Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the
Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
1

2016 Contribution
CHF

832,830

0.426%

5,677,320

2.904%

56,695

0.029%

682,295

0.349%

Kyrgyz Republic

37,145

0.019%

29,325

0.015%

152,490

0.078%

93,840

0.048%

1,567,910

0.802%

Lao People’s Democratic
Republic

29,325

0.015%

Latvia

29,325

0.015%

Lesotho

29,325

0.015%

156,400

0.080%

Liechtenstein

60,605

0.031%

The European Union is not subject to contributions. However, its 28 members are assessed individually. The total share of members of the European
Union represents 34.756% of the total assessed contributions for 2016.

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

176

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 180 End-----------------------

2016 Contribution
CHF

2016
Contribution %

2016 Contribution
CHF

Member

Lithuania

301,070

0.154%

Samoa

Luxembourg

789,820

0.404%

Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of

Macao, China

2016
Contribution %

29,325

0.015%

2,449,615

1.253%
0.023%

277,610

0.142%

Senegal

44,965

Madagascar

31,280

0.016%

Seychelles

29,325

0.015%

Malawi

29,325

0.015%

Sierra Leone

29,325

0.015%

Malaysia

2,191,555

1.121%

Singapore

4,703,730

2.406%

Maldives

29,325

0.015%

Slovak Republic

778,090

0.398%

318,665

0.163%

29,325

0.015%

Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius

31,280

0.016%

Slovenia

103,615

0.053%

Solomon Islands

29,325

0.015%

South Africa

1,069,385

0.547%

60,605

0.031%

Spain

4,078,130

2.086%

3,436,890

1.758%

Sri Lanka

152,490

0.078%

Moldova, Republic of

37,145

0.019%

Suriname

29,325

0.015%

Mongolia

50,830

0.026%

Swaziland

29,325

0.015%

Montenegro

29,325

0.015%

Sweden

2,183,735

1.117%

355,810

0.182%

Switzerland

3,460,350

1.770%

58,650

0.030%

Chinese Taipei

2,991,150

1.530%

Myanmar

82,110

0.042%

Tajikistan

29,325

0.015%

Namibia

56,695

0.029%

Tanzania

89,930

0.046%

Nepal

39,100

0.020%

Thailand

2,359,685

1.207%

5,671,455

2.901%

0.027%

0.227%

The Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia

52,785

443,785

Nicaragua

48,875

0.025%

Togo

29,325

0.015%

Niger

29,325

0.015%

Mexico

Morocco
Mozambique

Netherlands
New Zealand

Nigeria

752,675

0.385%

Norway

1,569,865

0.803%

Oman

377,315

0.193%

Pakistan

344,080

0.176%

Panama

236,555

0.121%

Papua New Guinea
Paraguay

54,740

0.028%

111,435

0.057%

Peru

412,505

0.211%

Philippines

652,970

0.334%

2,103,580

1.076%

Poland
Portugal

823,055

0.421%

Qatar

735,080

0.376%

Romania

660,790

0.338%

4,379,200

2.240%

Rwanda

29,325

0.015%

Saint Kitts and Nevis

29,325

0.015%

Saint Lucia

29,325

0.015%

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

29,325

0.015%

Russian Federation

Tonga

29,325

0.015%

121,210

0.062%

Tunisia

226,780

0.116%

Turkey

1,968,685

1.007%

54,740

0.028%

782,000

0.400%

2,699,855

1.381%

Trinidad and Tobago

Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Viet Nam

7,446,595

3.809%

21,974,200

11.240%

117,300

0.060%

29,325

0.015%

711,620

0.364%

1,024,420

0.524%

Yemen

101,660

0.052%

Zambia

78,200

0.040%

Zimbabwe

50,830

0.026%

195,500,000

100.000%

TOTAL

Secretariat
and budget

Member

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

177

-----------------------Page 181 End-----------------------

How the WTO is structured
The WTO’s top-level decision-making body is the Ministerial Conference,
which usually meets every two years.

Numerous specialized committees, working groups and
working parties deal with the individual agreements and other
areas such as the environment, development, membership
applications and regional trade agreements.

Below the Ministerial Conference is the General Council
(normally ambassadors and heads of delegation in Geneva,
but sometimes ofﬁcials sent from members’ capitals), which
meets several times a year in the Geneva headquarters.
The General Council also meets as the Trade Policy Review
Body and the Dispute Settlement Body.

All WTO members may participate in all councils and
committees, with the exceptions of the Appellate Body,
Dispute Settlement panels and plurilateral committees.

At the next level, the Goods Council, Services Council
and Intellectual Property (TRIPS) Council report to the
General Council.

Committees on:
Trade and Environment
Trade and Development
Sub-Committee on Least-Developed Countries
Regional Trade Agreements
Balance of Payments Restrictions
Budget, Finance and Administration

Ministerial
Conference

Working parties on:
Accession

General Council
meeting as

General Council
meeting as

Dispute
Settlement Body

Trade Policy
Review Body

Working groups on:
Trade, debt and finance
Trade and technology transfer
Inactive

General
Council
Appellate Body

Relationship between Trade and Investment
Interaction between Trade and
Competition Policy
Transparency in Government
Procurement

Dispute settlement
panels

Plurilaterals:
Plurilateral:
Information
Technology
Agreement
Committee

Council for
Trade in
Goods

Council for
Trade-Related
Aspects of
Intellectual
Property Rights

Council for
Trade in
Services

Trade in Civil
Aircraft Committee
Government
Procurement
Committee

Trade
Negotiations
Committee

Committees on:

Committees on:

Doha Development Agenda:

Market Access
Agriculture
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
Technical Barriers to Trade
Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures
Anti-Dumping Practices
Customs Valuation
Rules of Origin
Import Licensing
Trade-Related Investment Measures
Safeguards

Trade in Financial Services
Specific Commitments

Trade Negotiations
Committee and its bodies

Working party on:
State Trading Enterprises

Working parties on:

Special sessions of:

Domestic Regulation
General Agreement on
Trade in Services Rules

Services Council / TRIPS Council /
Dispute Settlement Body / Agriculture
Committee and Cotton Sub-Committee /
Trade and Development Committee /
Trade and Environment Committee
Negotiating groups on:
Market Access
Rules
Trade Facilitation

WTO website
www.wto.org

178

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 182 End-----------------------

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2015)
Chairpersons of the General Council and bodies reporting to it
General Council

Ambassador Fernando de Mateo (Mexico)

Dispute Settlement Body

Ambassador Harald Neple (Norway)

Trade Policy Review Body

Ambassador Atanas Atanassov Paparizov (Bulgaria)

Council for Trade in Goods

Ambassador Héctor Casanueva (Chile)

Council for Trade in Services

Ambassador Martin Eyjólfsson (Iceland)

Council for TRIPS

Ambassador Abdolazeez Al-Otaibi (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia)

Committee on Trade and Environment

Ms. Irene B.K. Young (Hong Kong, China)

Committee on Trade and Development

Ambassador Juan Esteban Aguirre Martínez (Paraguay)

Committee on Balance-of-Payments Restrictions

Ambassador Bertrand de Crombrugghe de Picquendaele (Belgium)

Committee on Regional Trade Agreements

Ambassador Amr Ramadan (Egypt)

Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration

Ambassador Daniel Blockert (Sweden)

Working Group on Trade and Transfer of Technology

Ambassador Luc-Joseph Okio (Congo)

Working Group on Trade, Debt and Finance

Ambassador Xavier Carim (South Africa)

Trade Negotiations Committee

Director-General Roberto Azevêdo (WTO)

Preparatory Committee on Trade Facilitation

Ambassador Esteban B. Conejos (Philippines)

Chairpersons of bodies established under the Trade Negotiations Committee
Negotiating Group on Market Access

Ambassador Remigi Winzap (Switzerland)

Negotiating Group on Rules

Ambassador Wayne McCook (Jamaica)

Special Session of the Council for Trade in Services

Ambassador Gabriel Duque (Colombia)

Special Session of the Council for TRIPS

Ambassador Dacio Castillo (Honduras)

Special Session of the Dispute Settlement Body

Ambassador Ronald Saborío Soto (Costa Rica)

Special Session of the Committee on Agriculture

Ambassador Vangelis Vitalis (New Zealand)

Sub-Committee on Cotton

Ambassador Vangelis Vitalis (New Zealand)

Special Session of the Committee on Trade and Environment

Ambassador Syed Tauqir Shah (Pakistan)

Special Session of the Committee on Trade and Development

Ambassador Tan Yee Woan (Singapore)

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Goods
Committee on Agriculture

Mr. Michael Wamai (Uganda)

Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices

Mr. Hamed Mahmoud El Etreby (Egypt)

Committee on Customs Valuation

Mr. Ping Liu (China)

Committee on Import Licensing

Ms. Carrie I-Jen Wu (Chinese Taipei)

Committee on Market Access

Ms. Krizia Denisse Matthews Barahona (Panama)

Committee on Rules of Origin

Mr. Christian Wegener (Denmark)

Committee on Safeguards

Mr. Victor Echevarria Ugarte (Spain)

Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures

Mr. Felipe Hees (Brazil)

Committee on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures

Mr. Mitsuhiro Fukuyama (Japan)

Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade

Ms. Alana Maria Lanza Suazo (Honduras)

Committee on Trade-Related Investment Measures

Mr. Zaher Al-Qatarneh (Jordan)

Working Party on State Trading Enterprises

Mr. Andrew Jory (Australia)

Committee of Participants on the Expansion of Trade in Information Technology
Products

Mr. Andrew Staines (United Kingdom)

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Services
Committee on Trade in Financial Services

Ms. Maha Gabbani (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia)

Working Party on Domestic Regulation

Mr. Eog-Weon Lee (Republic of Korea)

Committee on Speciﬁc Commitments

Ms. Brigitte Lüth (Austria)

Working Party on GATS Rules

Mr. Donald McDougall (Canada)

Chairpersons of Committees of Plurilateral Agreements
Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft

Mr. Hsiao-Yin Wu (Chinese Taipei)

Committee on Government Procurement

Mr. John Newham (Ireland)

WTO website
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

179

-----------------------Page 183 End-----------------------

Membership of the WTO: 162 members (as of 31 December 2015)1
Member2

Year of accession

Albania
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Bahrain, Kingdom of
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bolivia, Plurinational State of
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cabo Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
European Union
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
The Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras

2000
1996
1995
1995
2003
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
2008
1995
1996
1995
2001
1995
1997
1995
1995
2000
1995
1995
1995
1997
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1999
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1996
2000
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995

Member2

Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Republic of
Kuwait, the State of
Kyrgyz Republic
Latvia
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Lesotho
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova, Republic of
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Countries that officially became WTO members in 2015
Seychelles
Kazakhstan
1

2

Date of membership
26 April 2015
30 November 2015

Year of accession
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2000
2015
1995
1995
1995
1998
1999
2013
1995
1995
2001
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2001
1997
2012
1995
1995
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
2000
1995
1997
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
2012
1996
1996
1995
1995

Member2

Year of accession

Samoa
Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Chinese Taipei
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia (FYROM)
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States of America
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

2012
2005
1995
2015
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2002
2013
1995
1995
2003
1995
2007
1995
1995
1995
1995
2008
1996
1995
1995
1995
2012
1995
2007
2014
1995
1995

States/separate customs territories seeking
to join the WTO (as of 31 December 2015)
Algeria
Andorra
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Belarus
Bhutan
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Comoros
Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia
Iran
Iraq
Lebanese Republic
Libya
São Tomé and Principe
Serbia
Sudan
Syrian Arab Republic
Uzbekistan

Countries that completed accession negotiations in 2015
Liberia, Republic of
Afghanistan

Date of approval of accession package1
16 December 2015
17 December 2015

Ministers formally approved Liberia’s and Afghanistan’s WTO membership terms at special ceremonies on 16 and 17 December 2015 at the WTO’s Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi, Kenya.
Members are mostly states but can also be customs territories with full autonomy over their external commercial relations.

WTO website
www.wto.org

180

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 184 End-----------------------

Abbreviations
ADP
ASEAN
CTD
DDA
DSB
DSU
EIF
EU
FAO
FDI
GATS
GATT
GDP
GIs
GPA
HS
ICC
ILO
IPU
ISO
ITA
ITC
ITTC
ITU
LDCs
MEAs
MFN

Anti-Dumping Practices
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Committee on Trade and Development
Doha Development Agenda
Dispute Settlement Body
Dispute Settlement Understanding
Enhanced Integrated Framework
European Union
Food and Agriculture Organization
Foreign direct investment
General Agreement on Trade in Services
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Gross domestic product
Geographical indications
Government Procurement Agreement
Harmonized System
International Chamber of Commerce
International Labour Organization
Inter-Parliamentary Union
International Organization for Standardization
Information Technology Agreement
International Trade Centre
Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation
International Telecommunication Union
Least-developed countries
Multilateral environmental agreements
Most-favoured nation

MIWI
NAMA
NFIDCs
NGO
NTMs
OECD
PLS
PSI
PTAs
RTAs
SCM
SG
SMEs
SPS
STDF
SVE
TBT
TNC
TPR
TPRM
TRIMs
TRIPS
UNCTAD
WIPO

“Made in the World”
Non-agricultural market access
Net food-importing developing countries
Non-governmental organization
Non-tariff measures
Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development
Progressive learning strategy
Agreement on Preshipment Inspection
Preferential trade arrangements
Regional trade agreements
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
Agreement on Safeguards
Small and medium-sized enterprises
Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
Standards and Trade Development Facility
Small, vulnerable economy
Technical barriers to trade
Trade Negotiations Committee
Trade Policy Review
Trade Policy Review Mechanism
Trade-related investment measures
Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights
United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development
World Intellectual Property Organization

0 is zero or became zero due to rounding.
Billion means one thousand million.
Minor discrepancies between constituent ﬁgures and totals are due to rounding.
Unless otherwise indicated, (i) all value ﬁgures are expressed in US dollars; (ii) trade ﬁgures include the intra-trade of free trade
areas, customs unions, regional and other country groupings.
Note
This report covers the WTO’s activities in 2015. The word “country” is frequently used to describe WTO members whereas a few
members are ofﬁcially “customs territories”, and not necessarily countries in the usual sense of the word.

Further information
Further information about the organization and its
activities can be found on the WTO website: www.wto.org
General information about the WTO is available in the
following publications, which may all be downloaded
free of charge from the website:
WTO in Brief
WTO in Brief provides a starting point for essential information
about the WTO. Concise and practical, this short brochure is
an ideal introduction to the WTO.
10 things the WTO can do
This publication highlights some of the beneﬁts of the trading
system, but it does not claim that everything is perfect –
otherwise there would be no need for further negotiations and
for the system to evolve and reform continually. The publication
replaces 10 Beneﬁts of the WTO Trading System and
10 Common Misunderstandings about the WTO.

Understanding the WTO
An introduction to the WTO, what it is, why it was created,
how it works, and what it does, Understanding the
WTO has been written speciﬁcally for non-specialists.
More comprehensive than WTO in Brief, this publication
details WTO agreements, the dispute settlement process,
the Doha Round of negotiations and many other issues.
Online bookshop
Printed publications can be purchased through the WTO’s
online bookshop: http://onlinebookshop.wto.org.
Many publications may be downloaded free of charge from the
WTO website: www.wto.org.
You can register to receive free alerts when new titles
become available.

WTO website
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2016 World Trade Organization

181

-----------------------Page 185 End-----------------------

Download the app
The WTO Annual Report 2016 will be available as an app,
to be downloaded from the App Store, Google Play and
Amazon Apps for viewing on your iPad, iPhone, Android tablet
or smartphone, or Kindle.

A year in review
Trade negotiations

As Chair of the
Trade Negotiations
Committee,
Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo
regularly reported on
the activities of the
negotiating groups.

The facilitators consulted extensively with WTO members and
presented a report on the structure, elements and process
to lead members to a consensual text. There was rapid
convergence on how the declaration should be divided into
three parts: an introduction focusing on the importance of
the multilateral trading system, the deliverables of the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference, and the future work of the WTO after
Nairobi. There were clear differences among WTO members
about the future of the Doha Round and on the possibility of
extending negotiations to other areas not covered in the DDA.
These issues were not addressed by the facilitators.
WTO members submitted textual proposals on what they
wished to see in the Ministerial Declaration, and the facilitators
were requested to produce a compilation of these proposals.
They were subsequently asked to produce a draft consolidated
text. Text-based negotiations among WTO members continued
on the basis of the facilitators’ draft.
By the General Council meeting on 7 December – the
last before the start of MC10 – WTO members had made
substantial progress. However, bracketed texts – indicating
areas where agreement could not be reached – remained in
some areas. Contentious issues, namely the reafﬁrmation of

Trade negotiations in 2015
/

The facilitators were Norway’s Minister of Foreign Affairs
Børge Brende, Mexico’s Secretary of the Economy Ildefonso
Guajardo Villarreal, Lesotho’s Trade Minister Joshua Setipa,
Rwanda’s Trade Minister François Kanimba, Jamaica’s Foreign
Affairs Minister Arnold Nicholson and WTO Deputy DirectorGeneral Yonov Frederick Agah.
While not all issues could be agreed, draft texts in a number
of areas, including agriculture, cotton and LDC issues,
as well as a ﬁnal draft text of the Ministerial Declaration,
were presented at an informal heads of delegations meeting
on 19 December, the ﬁnal day of the conference. Late in the
afternoon, heads of delegations reached agreement to transmit
the texts to the formal plenary session of the Ministerial
Conference, held immediately afterwards, for ministers to
consider. The result was a ﬁnal Ministerial Declaration, which
listed six decisions on agriculture, including an end to farm
export subsidies, cotton and LDC issues (see page 20).
The declaration also included a section on the future of
the WTO.

The Nairobi Ministerial Declaration acknowledges that WTO members “have
different views” on the future of the Doha Round negotiations but notes the “strong
commitment of all members to advance negotiations on the remaining Doha issues”.

>

Over 50 WTO members concluded a landmark deal to expand the
WTO’s Information Technology Agreement, eliminating tariffs on
201 additional IT products valued at over US$ 1.3 trillion per year.

CITES and the WTO: Enhancing
Cooperation for
Sustainable Development

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

Dispute Settlement Reports 2013
Volume I: Pages 1 to 468

New publications
WTO Dispute Settlement: One-Page
Case Summaries, 1995-2014 (2015
edition)

and
the

Enhancing Cooperation
for Sustainable
Development

2015
EDITIO
N

This publication illustrates how the
relationship between the Convention
on International Trade in Endangered
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora
(CITES) and the WTO has evolved into
a leading example of how global trade
and environmental regimes can support
each other and work coherently to achieve shared objectives.
Co-published with CITES.

Ambassador Fernando
de Mateo was elected
as Chair of the General
Council in February 2015.

WTO Dispute Settlement:
One-Page Case Summaries
1995–2014

Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015:
Reducing Trade Costs for
Inclusive, Sustainable Growth

ISBN 978-92-870-4009-1 | CHF 40
“One-Page Case Summaries” provides
a succinct summary of the key ﬁndings
of every dispute panel report up to the
end of 2014 and, where applicable,
the subsequent Appellate Body report.
A History of Law and Lawyers in
the GATT/WTO: The Development
of the Rule of Law in the
Multilateral Trading System

CITES WTO

ISBN 978-92-870-4060-2 | Free

2013

• •• FOR• • • • • •
AT A GLANCE
2015

ISBN 978-92-870-4019-0 | CHF 90

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

A History of Law and
Lawyers in the GATT/ WTO
The Development of the Rule of Law in
the Multilateral Trading System
Edited by Gabrielle Marceau

ISBN 978-1-107-08523-7 | CHF 130
| Hardback

ISBN 978-92-870-4022-0 | CHF 30
This latest title in the WTO Agreements
series introduces the WTO’s Agreement
on Agriculture, outlining its key
principles, the work of the Agriculture
Committee, and how disputes have
interpreted WTO law on agriculture.
It includes the full text of the Agriculture
Agreement and the decisions taken
on agriculture at the 2013 Bali
Ministerial Conference.

“Aid for Trade at a Glance 2015”
reveals how reducing trade costs can
help to achieve sustainable growth.
It contains contributions from the
Enhanced Integrated Framework,
the International Trade Centre,
the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development and the World
Bank. Co-published with OECD.

Waivers under Article IX of the
WTO Agreement

The Role of Trade in
Ending Poverty

The book paints an interesting portrait
of the role that law and lawyers have
played in the history of the multilateral
trading system. It includes contributions
from current and former GATT and
WTO staff members, including
many current and former Appellate
Body members. Co-published with
Cambridge University Press.
Agriculture – 2nd Edition – WTO
Agreements Series

REDUCING TRADE COSTS
FOR INCLUSIVE,
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH

The General Council considered and granted a number
of requests for waivers from obligations under the WTO
Agreement, as set out in Table 1. It also reviewed the following
multi-year waivers:

ISBN 978-92-870-4013-8 | CHF 40
“The Role of Trade in Ending Poverty”
looks at the complex relationships
between economic growth, poverty
reduction and trade, and examines
the challenges that poor people face
in beneﬁting from trade opportunities.
Co-published with the World Bank.

THE ROLE OF

TRADE
POVERTY
IN ENDING

JOINT PUBLICATION BY
THE WORLD BANK GROUP AND THE
WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION

› Preferential treatment for LDCs, granted on 27 May 2009
until 30 June 2019

The WTO Agreements Series
Agriculture

WTO Accessions and Trade
Multilateralism: Case Studies and
Lessons from the WTO at Twenty

› LDCs — Article 70.9 of the TRIPS Agreement with respect
to pharmaceutical products, granted on 8 July 2002 until
1 January 2016

WORLD TRADE
ORGANIZATION

WTO Accessions and
Trade Multilateralism
Case Studies and Lessons from
the WTO at Twenty
Edited by Uri Dadush and Chiedu Osakwe

ISBN 978-1-107-47224-2 | CHF 70
This publication looks at how WTO
accession negotiations have expanded
the reach of the multilateral trading
system, not only geographically, but also
conceptually, clarifying disciplines
and pointing the way to their further
strengthening in future negotiations.
Co-published with Cambridge University Press.

› United States — Former Trust Territory of the Paciﬁc Islands,
granted on 27 July 2007 until 31 December 2016
› United States — African Growth and Opportunity Act
(AGOA), granted on 27 May 2009 until 30 September
2015 (see page 54)

In November, the General Council received a report from
the TRIPS Council on implementation of Paragraph 6 of the
Doha Declaration on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health.
The General Council agreed to extend until 31 December
2017 the period for WTO members to accept the protocol,
which comes into force when it has been accepted by
two-thirds of WTO members (see page 78).
In November, on the recommendation of the TRIPS Council,
the General Council agreed to extend for 17 years until
1 January 2033 the transitional period for LDCs to enforce
global trade rules protecting pharmaceutical patents and
clinical data (see page 79).

› Philippines — Special treatment for rice, granted on 24 July
2014 until 30 June 2017

WTO accessions

› Preferential treatment to services and service suppliers of
LDCs, granted on 17 December 2011 until 17 December
2026 (see page 74)

At a meeting in July, attended by Kazakhstan’s President
Nursultan Nazarbayev, the General Council approved the draft
protocol on the accession of Kazakhstan. It adopted the draft
decision on the country’s accession and the report of the
respective working party. Kazakhstan became the 162nd WTO
member on 30 November, 30 days after depositing its
instrument of acceptance of its membership terms with the
Director-General (see page 25).

› Kimberley process certiﬁcation scheme for rough diamonds,
granted on 12 December 2012 until 31 December 2018
› European Union — Application of autonomous preferential
treatment to the West Balkans, Granted on 30 November
2011 until 31 December 2016
› Cuba — Article XV:6 of GATT 1994, Extension of waiver,
granted on 14 February 2012 until 31 December 2016

Contact with the public

of compulsory licences, referred to as the “Paragraph 6”
system (see page 78). The latter is a waiver permitting generic
versions of patented medicines to be exported to developing
countries with no domestic manufacturing capacity.

Intellectual property issues
In February, the General Council heard an update on
implementation of the protocol amending the TRIPS
Agreement, which aims to make it easier for poorer WTO
members to gain access to medicines through the granting

The General Council considered at its meeting in November
the 2015 Annual Report on Accessions by the DirectorGeneral, which looked back at WTO accessions over
the past 20 years. The report said that the process of
accession and its results illustrated the value of the WTO
“in supporting domestic priorities for economic diversiﬁcation
and modernization, updating the rules of trade and promoting
broader international cooperation for trade”. The report also
highlighted the need for a post-accession support strategy
for new WTO members.

Round Negotiations; and The WTO at Twenty: Challenges
and Achievements.
The Forum programme included “Meet the Author” sessions,
presented by the WTO Bookshop and Library, and stands
organized by a variety of partners showcasing how trade
works. Themes for the stands included “Trading Safely”,
“Trade for LDC Development”, “Linking Haiti Artisans to Value
Chains” and “Pursuing Sustainability in the Global Economy”.
Participants were able to send messages on how and why
trade works at a photo corner. All messages were posted on
social media.

Figure 1: Public Forum participation in 2015, by country
Norway 1% South Africa 1%
India 1%
Spain 1%
Kenya 2%
Denmark 1%
Sweden 1%
Finland 1%
Netherlands 2%
Other 13%
Canada 2%
Russian Federation
2%
Brazil 3%

Participation
The Public Forum 2015 attracted 1,300 participants (excluding
WTO delegates and staff), 21 per cent more than in 2014.
Participants came from 85 countries, including non-members
and observer governments. Businesses provided the largest
number of representatives, followed closely by NGOs and
students. Many sessions were the result of collaboration
between different types of organization.

Figure 2: Public Forum participation in 2015
Journalist 1%
Lawyer 3%
Parliamentarians 4%
Government official 6%

Unknown
13%

Germany 4%
United States
4%

Switzerland
32%

Academic 9%

Italy 5%
General Council
/

Business representative
14%

Other 6%
International
organization
9%

China 3%
United Kingdom
3%

NGO
representative
13%

Outreach

At the General Council in October, WTO members discussed
a potential Ministerial Declaration in Nairobi. At an informal
meeting of heads of delegation, the TNC chair appointed three
facilitators to assist him and the chair of the General Council
in this process: Ambassador Gabriel Duque of Colombia,
Ambassador Harald Neple of Norway and Ambassador
Stephen Karau of Kenya.

the DDA and how to address new issues, which had not been
addressed in the facilitators’ consultations, were forwarded to
ministers in Nairobi.

Consultations continue in Nairobi
The chair of MC10, Kenya’s Cabinet Secretary for Foreign
Affairs Amina Mohamed, and DG Azevêdo announced that
informal meetings open to all WTO members at the level of
heads of delegation would continue throughout the conference
in parallel with the formal plenary meetings. These informal
meetings would constitute the core forum for facilitating
discussion and consensus-building on the various texts that
would be put forward for formal consideration and action by
ministers, including the text of a draft Ministerial Declaration.
Some ministers were asked to act as facilitators to assist in
and help speed up the negotiations.

The Nairobi Package includes a historic decision to eliminate
agricultural export subsidies, the most important reform of international
trade rules in agriculture since the WTO was founded.

>

Implementation
and monitoring

Trade
Negotiations

Preparatory process for
Ministerial Declaration

The WTO’s Tenth Ministerial Conference, held in Nairobi from 15 to 19 December,
concluded with the adoption of the “Nairobi Package”, a series of six ministerial
decisions on agriculture, cotton and issues related to least-developed countries.

>

Outreach
Dispute Settlement Reports 2014
Dispute Settlement Reports 2014
provides the full texts of panel reports,
Appellate Body reports and arbitration
awards issued by the WTO in 2014.
Eight volumes were published in
2015. Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

was still a chance of delivering some signiﬁcant elements for
Nairobi and urged WTO members to increase their efforts.

>

Student (high school) 9%
Student (university) 13%

Belgium 6%
France 12%

Note: “Unknown” reﬂects on-the-spot registration where participants did not
specify their type of organization.

Relations with non-governmental organizations

WTO publications
www.wto.org/publications

182

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2016

-----------------------Page 186 End-----------------------

Photo credits
Cover photos (clockwise from top right): © WTO; © WTO;
© Getty Images/Toshiro Shimada; © Getty Images/François
Nascimbeni; © WTO; © Getty Images/Teradat Santivivut.

Page 53: © PANOS/Sven Torﬁnn.

Page ii: © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO/Admedia
Communication; © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO/Studio
Casagrande; © WTO.

Page 72: © BillionPhotos.com.

Pages 3, 9, 125, 126, 127, 136, 139, 140, 141, 156, 158:
© WTO/Studio Casagrande.

Page 79: © RGtimeline.

Page 57: © PANOS/G.M.B. Akash.

Page 75: © Trevor Snapp/Bloomberg via Getty Images.

Page 80: © PANOS/Atul Loke.
Pages 5, 10, 15, 18, 19, 24, 30, 33, 38, 40, 43, 45, 46, 47, 48,
64, 82, 96, 100, 114, 133, 143, 149, 159, 161, 168, 169, 170,
172: © WTO.
Page 6 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO;
© Getty Images/Glowimages; © WTO; © WTO; © Getty
Images/OJO Images RF; © WTO; © WTO;

Page 90 (clockwise from top left): © Norm Betts/Bloomberg;
© majaiva; © Monty Rakusen; © Peter Adams; © Ken
Gerhardt; © Clinton Friedman; © Paul Harris; © SambaPhoto/
Paulo Fridman; © JEWEL SAMAD; © Wesley Bocxe.

Page 7 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO/ANTARA;
© WTO.

Page 91: © Alexander Spatari; © Bill Lyons; © Bloomberg;
© sasintipchai; © Cultura RM Exclusive/Mick Ryan;
© UniversalImagesGroup; © Steven Morris Photography;
© Danita Delimont; © Bloomberg; © Guenter Guni.

Page 8: © WTO; © WTO/Studio Casagrande.

Page 116: © PANOS/Aubrey Wade.

Page 12 (clockwise from top left): © WORLD ECONOMIC
FORUM/swiss-image.ch/Photo Valeriano DiDomenico;
© WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO/Casagrande;
© WTO; © WTO; © WTO.

Page 119: © PANOS/Petterik Wiggers.

Page 13 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO;
© WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © UN Photo/Eskinder Debebe;
© Volkan Furuncu/Anadolu Agency; © WTO/Admedia
Communication; © WTO/Admedia Communication; © WTO/
Admedia Communication.
Pages 21, 22, 26, 51, 84, 150: © WTO/
Admedia Communication.
Page 25: © WTO; © WTO/Admedia Communication.
Page 34: © Government of Wales.
Page 37: © State Secretariat for Economic Affairs SECO.
Pages 42, 44: © Dean Calma/IAEA

Page 129: © EIF Rwanda.
Page 130: © STDF.
Page 142: © Tarik FETTAH.
Page 145: © Eskinder Debebe; © WTO/Studio Casagrande.
Page 146: © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO.
Page 147: © Volkan Furuncu/Anadolu Agency.
Page 157: © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO/Studio
Casagrande; © WTO.
Page 162: © Rachad Abidi.
Page 166: © Adrien Barakat.

ISBN 978-92-870-4073-2
Printed by the WTO Secretariat.
Report designed by Paprika.
© World Trade Organization 2016
The Annual Report is also available in French and Spanish.

-----------------------Page 187 End-----------------------

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 21
Switzerland
Tel. switchboard: +41 (0)22 739 51 11
email: enquiries@wto.org
Website: www.wto.org

ISBN 978-92-870-4073-2

-----------------------Page 188 End-----------------------

