Annual
Report 2017

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

	 Who we are
The World Trade Organization deals with the global rules of trade
between nations. Its main function is to ensure that trade flows as
smoothly, predictably and freely as possible.

	 Using this report
The 2017 Annual Report begins with a message from the WTO
Director-General and an overview of the past year. This is followed
by more in-depth accounts of the WTO’s areas of activity over the
past 12 months.

	 Find out more
Website: www.wto.org
General enquiries: enquiries@wto.org
Tel: +41 (0)22 739 51 11
	
An

app is also available to download to
your tablet or smartphone.
for iPad and iPhone
for Android

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual
Report
2017

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

1. Introduction
Message from Director‑General
Roberto Azevêdo

2
2

Understanding the WTO

4

A brief history

6

2. A year in review
Our year

8
10

2016: a snapshot

20

3. Membership
Joining the WTO

22
24

A global membership

28

4. Trade negotiations

30

Changes to the rules of trade require the agreement of all WTO members, who must reach
consensus through negotiations.

5. Implementation and monitoring

44

Various WTO councils and committees seek to ensure that WTO agreements are being
properly implemented. All WTO members undergo periodic scrutiny of their trade policies
and practices.

6. Dispute settlement

104

WTO members bring disputes to the WTO if they think their rights under trade agreements are
being infringed. Settling disputes is the responsibility of the Dispute Settlement Body.

7. Supporting development and building trade capacity 120
The WTO aims to help developing countries build their trade capacity and allows them a
longer time to implement trade agreements. Hundreds of training courses are organized each
year for officials from developing countries.

8. Outreach

138

The WTO maintains regular dialogue with the business community, non-governmental
organizations, parliamentarians, other international organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and raise awareness of trade issues.

9. Secretariat and budget

166

The WTO Secretariat has over 600 regular staff and coordinates the activities of the WTO. Most
of the WTO’s annual budget consists of contributions by its members.

How the WTO is structured

178

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2016)

179

Membership of the WTO (as of 31 December 2016)

180

Abbreviations and further information

181

Download the app

182

Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

1

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Introduction

Message from
Director‑General
Roberto Azevêdo
Following the success of the 10th WTO Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in
December 2015, we saw a significant rise in engagement in many areas of our
work in 2016. The year was defined by robust discussion among members on a
wide range of issues and a notable rise in interest from other stakeholders.

T

his heightened engagement was reflected in the large
number of members who advanced their ratifications of
two important WTO accords during the year, specifically the
Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) and an amendment to the
WTO’s intellectual property agreement designed to enhance
access to essential medicines among the poorest countries.
This acceleration in members’ domestic ratifications led to the
entry into force of both agreements in early 2017 – a moment
of real historic significance for the WTO.
The TFA is the biggest global trade deal so far this century.
It aims to speed up the flow of goods across borders by
streamlining customs procedures and making them more
transparent, delivering major economic benefits as a result.
Developing and least-developed countries will enjoy the
greatest benefits of the Agreement, while also having access
to technical assistance and capacity building programmes to
help with its implementation.
The amendment to the WTO’s intellectual property agreement
is also very important. This amendment secures a legal
pathway for developing countries to access medicines at more
affordable prices. Under the amendment, generic versions
of patented medicines may be exported to countries that do
not have the capacity to manufacture generically the needed
medicines themselves. By doing so, this deal could help
these countries better tackle diseases such as HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis or malaria.
This progress has put renewed energy into the WTO’s work
and provided momentum for our forthcoming 11th Ministerial
Conference, to be held in Buenos Aires in December this year
– the first WTO Ministerial Conference to be held in South
America. With this meeting in mind, members have been very
active in their discussions. The Doha negotiating groups have
been continuing their work and we have seen a number of new
papers and ideas being put forward – covering a wide range
of issues including agriculture, fisheries subsidies, services,
e-commerce and measures related to small and medium-

sized businesses. I hope that we can sustain this prevailing
momentum and positive engagement in the lead-up to the
Buenos Aires meeting. There are also areas with a specific
mandate for the 11th Ministerial Conference, such as public
stockholding for food security. Any action in Buenos Aires
should include steps on development and in support of the
least developed countries.
A welcome addition to the ongoing discussions in Geneva
has been the engagement of an array of stakeholders. At the
initiative of the International Chamber of Commerce and the
B20, the business arm of the G20, an event was held at the
WTO in May 2016 bringing together over 60 business leaders
to discuss the challenges they face in their trade operations
and to discuss how the WTO can help in dealing with them.
Participants represented an array of sectors, ranging from
small to large enterprises from both developed and developing
countries. This event was part of the “Trade Dialogues”
initiative, aimed at providing a range of stakeholders, including
labour organizations, consumer bodies and academics,
with the opportunity to discuss trade-related matters.
In September 2016, many of these constituencies came to the
WTO to take part in our flagship annual outreach event – the
Public Forum – which attracted over 1,100 participants to
100 sessions, the biggest turnout and the highest number of
sessions in the Forum’s history.
Another important form of outreach is the training and capacity
building support that the WTO provides to its membership.
In 2016, over 18,000 participants benefited from the WTO’s
training activities aimed at helping government officials
gain a better understanding of the global trading system.
This included participants from the WTO’s newest members –
Afghanistan and Liberia. Both formally joined the organization
in July, bringing our total membership to 164, representing
around 98 per cent of world trade.
The WTO’s founders may not have conceived of technical
assistance and capacity building as a central element of our

Message from Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg

2

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

work – but it is unquestionably central today. Moreover, these
initiatives are vital for trade to play its full role in powering
development as foreseen in the new Sustainable Development
Goals. An independent evaluation carried out in 2016 showed
that we continue to deliver a high level of trade-related
technical assistance. WTO initiatives like Aid for Trade,
the Standards and Trade Development Facility, the Trade
Facilitation Agreement Facility and the Enhanced Integrated
Framework, which launched its second phase in 2016, are also
bearing fruit. We look forward to the 6th Global Review of Aid
for Trade in July 2017 as an important moment to review and
strengthen this work.
Out of our 164 members, two-thirds have participated in one
way or another in our dispute settlement system, which had
its most active year so far in 2016. By the end of the year,
some 520 trade disputes had been submitted to the WTO.
To respond to the increasing number of disputes being brought
to the WTO, I have continued to reallocate resources to our
legal divisions so that cases can be examined in a timely
manner. The regular use of the WTO’s dispute settlement
system by both developing and developed countries is a
clear indication of the importance that members attach to the
system, and their confidence in it.
Nevertheless, we must recognise that these are challenging
times for global trade. Economic growth is low; trade growth
is low; the threat of protectionism cannot be ignored; and we
struggle with the persistent global challenges of poverty,
inequality and under-development. We must work harder to
ensure that the benefits of trade reach more people, especially
in the most vulnerable countries. The WTO’s role is to work with
governments to help them build policies which respond to the
many challenges in the economy today – policies which leverage
trade as part of the solution. Trade may not be a silver bullet that
will by itself deliver growth, but it is a fundamental and necessary
ingredient for any strategy aiming at sustainable social and
economic development. In this context, cooperative engagement
at the international level is more important than ever.

The structures of the multilateral trading system were built
in direct response to the lessons of history. They represent
the world’s best effort to ensure that the mistakes of the past
are not repeated. They provide the tools to deal with many
of the problems that are at the forefront of the debate today.
Our trade monitoring reports have shown us that the importrestrictive measures implemented since October 2008 and
still in place cover just 5 per cent of world imports. It could be
even lower, of course, but this illustrates that the system has
worked. Despite the financial crisis and its economic impact,
we have not seen a significant rise in protectionism, and we
certainly have not seen a repeat of the 1930s where escalating
tariffs and unilateral actions helped fuel the downward spiral
that wiped out two-thirds of global trade and ultimately led
to the Great Depression. With this in mind, I believe that
the WTO is now more important than ever. We must work
together to strengthen the trading system in the interests of
global economic stability, and so that the benefits of trade in
supporting jobs, growth and development can be spread as far
and as wide as possible.
Finally, on a personal note, I would like to thank WTO members
for reappointing me for a second term as Director-General,
starting in September 2017. I believe that the WTO is stronger
today. Moreover, in an increasingly interdependent world
economy, I believe it is our responsibility to ensure that we
bolster global economic cooperation – and that we leave a
well-functioning trading system for future generations. I look
forward to working with members over the next four years to
fulfil that responsibility.

Roberto Azevêdo
Director-General

Message from Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo
www.wto.org/dg
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

3

Introduction

“We must work harder to ensure that the
benefits of trade reach more people, especially
in the most vulnerable countries. The WTO’s
role is to work with governments to help them
build policies which respond to the many
challenges in the economy today – policies
which leverage trade as part of the solution.”

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Introduction

Understanding the WTO
There are a number of ways of looking at the World Trade Organization. It is an
organization for trade opening. It is a forum for governments to negotiate trade agreements.
It is a place for them to settle trade disputes. It operates the global system of trade rules.
It helps developing countries build their trade capacity. Essentially, the WTO is a place
where member governments try to sort out the trade problems they face with each other.

Who we are

What we stand for

The WTO was born out of negotiations aimed at progressively
reducing obstacles to trade. Where countries have faced
trade barriers and wanted them lowered, the negotiations have
helped to open markets for trade. But the WTO is not just
about opening markets, and in some circumstances its rules
support maintaining trade barriers – for example, to protect
consumers and the environment or prevent the spread
of disease.

The WTO agreements are lengthy and complex because
they are legal texts covering a wide range of activities. But a
number of simple, fundamental principles run throughout all of
these documents. These principles are the foundation of the
multilateral trading system.

At its heart are the WTO agreements, negotiated and signed
by the bulk of the world’s trading nations. These documents
provide the rules for international commerce. They are
essentially contracts, binding governments to keep their
trade policies within agreed limits. Although negotiated and
signed by governments, the goal is to help producers of
goods and services, exporters, and importers conduct their
business, while allowing governments to meet social and
environmental objectives.
The system’s overriding purpose is to help trade flow as freely
as possible – so long as there are no undesirable side effects
– because this is important for stimulating economic growth
and employment and supporting the integration of developing
countries into the international trading system. That partly
means removing obstacles. It also means ensuring that
individuals, companies and governments know what the trade
rules are around the world, and giving them the confidence
that there will be no sudden changes of policy. In other words,
the rules have to be “transparent” and predictable.
Trade relations often involve conflicting interests. Agreements,
including those painstakingly negotiated in the WTO system,
often need interpreting. The most harmonious way to settle
these differences is through a neutral procedure based on
an agreed legal foundation. That is the purpose behind the
dispute settlement process written into the WTO agreements.

Non-discrimination
A country should not discriminate between its trading partners
and it should not discriminate between its own and foreign
products, services or nationals.
More open
Lowering trade barriers is one of the most obvious ways of
encouraging trade; these barriers include customs duties
(or tariffs) and measures such as import bans or quotas that
restrict quantities selectively.
Predictable and transparent
Foreign companies, investors and governments should be
confident that trade barriers should not be raised arbitrarily.
With stability and predictability, investment is encouraged,
jobs are created and consumers can fully enjoy the benefits of
competition – such as increased choice and lower prices.
More competitive
Discouraging “unfair” practices, such as export subsidies and
dumping products at below normal value to gain market share;
the issues are complex, and the rules try to establish what is
fair or unfair, and how governments can respond, in particular
by charging additional import duties calculated to compensate
for damage caused by unfair trade.
More beneficial for less developed countries
Giving them more time to adjust, greater flexibility and
special privileges; over three-quarters of WTO members are
developing countries and countries in transition to market
economies. The WTO agreements give them transition
periods to adjust to WTO provisions and, in the case of the
Trade Facilitation Agreement, provide for practical support for
implementation of the Agreement.

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto

4

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Introduction

Protect the environment

Implementation and monitoring

The WTO’s agreements permit members to take measures
to protect not only the environment but also public health,
animal health and plant health. However, these measures
must be applied in the same way to both national and
foreign businesses. In other words, members must not use
environmental protection measures as a means of introducing
a trade barrier.

WTO agreements require governments to make their trade
policies transparent by notifying the WTO about laws in
force and measures adopted. Various WTO councils and
committees seek to ensure that these requirements are
being followed and that WTO agreements are being properly
implemented. All WTO members must undergo periodic
scrutiny of their trade policies and practices, each review
containing reports by the country concerned and the
WTO Secretariat.

What we do

Dispute settlement

The WTO is run by its member governments. All major
decisions are made by the membership as a whole, either by
ministers (who usually meet at least once every two years)
or by their ambassadors or delegates (who meet regularly
in Geneva). While the WTO is driven by its member states,
it could not function without its Secretariat to coordinate
the activities. The Secretariat employs over 600 staff,
and its experts – lawyers, economists, statisticians and
communications experts – assist WTO members on a daily
basis to ensure, among other things, that negotiations progress
smoothly, and that the rules of international trade are correctly
applied and enforced.
Trade negotiations
The WTO agreements cover goods, services and intellectual
property. They spell out the principles of liberalization, and the
permitted exceptions. They include individual countries’
commitments to lower customs tariffs and other trade barriers,
and to open services markets. They set procedures for
settling disputes. These agreements are not static; they are
renegotiated from time to time and new agreements can be
added, as was the case at the Bali and Nairobi ministerial
conferences of 2013 and 2015. Negotiations continue on
the issues of the Doha Development Agenda, which was
originally launched by WTO trade ministers in Doha, Qatar,
in November 2001.

The WTO’s procedure for resolving trade disputes under
the Dispute Settlement Understanding is vital for enforcing
the rules and therefore for ensuring that trade flows
smoothly. Countries bring disputes to the WTO if they
think their rights under the agreements are being infringed.
Judgements by specially appointed independent experts are
based on interpretations of the agreements and individual
countries’ commitments.
Supporting development and building trade capacity
WTO agreements contain special provision for developing
countries, including longer time periods to implement
agreements and commitments, measures to increase their
trading opportunities, and support to help them build their
trade capacity, to handle disputes and to implement technical
standards. The WTO organizes hundreds of technical
cooperation missions to developing countries annually. It also
holds numerous courses each year in Geneva for government
officials. The Aid for Trade initiative aims to help developing
countries develop the skills and infrastructure needed to
expand their trade.
Outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with non-governmental
organizations, parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general public on various
aspects of the WTO and its negotiations, with the aim
of enhancing cooperation and increasing awareness of
WTO activities.

Understanding the WTO
www.wto.org/whatiswto
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Introduction

A brief history
The WTO began life on 1 January 1995, succeeding the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade which had regulated world trade since 1948. Over the past
20 years, the WTO has made a major contribution to the strength and stability of the
global economy, helping to boost trade growth, resolve numerous trade disputes
and support the integration of developing countries into the trading system.

•	 1994
April
Marrakesh Agreement establishing the
WTO is signed.

•	 1995
January
The WTO is born on 1 January.
May
Renato Ruggiero (Italy) takes office as
WTO Director-General.

•	 1996
December
First Ministerial Conference takes place
in Singapore. Information Technology
Agreement concluded.

•	 1997
December
Seventy WTO members reach a multilateral
agreement to open their financial
services sector.

•	 1998
May
Second Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

•	 2000
January
Negotiations begin on services.
March
Negotiations begin on agriculture.

•	 2001
November
Fourth Ministerial Conference in Doha,
Qatar. Doha Development Agenda is
launched. China becomes the WTO’s
143rd member.

•	 1999
September
Mike Moore (New Zealand) becomes
WTO Director-General.

•	 2002
September
Supachai Panitchpakdi (Thailand) is
elected WTO Director-General.

November
Third Ministerial Conference takes place
in Seattle, US.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto

6

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

September
Fifth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Cancún, Mexico.

•	 2009
April
DG Pascal Lamy reappointed for second
term of four years.

Introduction

•	 2003
•	 2013
September
Roberto Azevêdo (Brazil) takes office as
WTO Director-General.

September
First WTO Open Day in Geneva.
November
Seventh Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

•	 2005
September
Pascal Lamy (France) becomes
WTO Director-General.

December
Ninth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Bali, Indonesia. “Bali Package” adopted.

•	 2014
•	 2010
January
“Chairs Programme” launched to support
developing country universities.

September
First WTO Public Forum takes place
in Geneva.

November
Approval of the final legal text of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement, originally agreed in
Bali in 2013.

•	 2015

December
Sixth Ministerial Conference takes place in
Hong Kong, China. Aid for Trade initiative
is launched. Hong Kong Declaration
is approved.

•	 2006

April
Revised WTO Agreement on Government
Procurement comes into force.

•	 2011

December
Tenth Ministerial Conference takes place in
Nairobi, Kenya. “Nairobi Package” adopted.
Expansion of Information Technology
Agreement concluded.

December
Eighth Ministerial Conference takes place
in Geneva.

•	 2016
•	 2007
January
Viet Nam becomes the WTO’s 150 th member.

•	 2012

July
Liberia becomes the WTO’s 163rd member.
Afghanistan becomes the WTO’s
164th member.

August
Russia becomes the WTO’s 156 th member.

November
First Global Review of Aid for Trade takes
place in Geneva.

A brief history
www.wto.org/whatiswto
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

A year in review
A large number of WTO members ratified the Trade Facilitation
Agreement in 2016, paving the way for its entry into force
in early 2017. Many members also accepted an amendment
to the WTO’s intellectual property agreement, which finally
came into effect in the first quarter of 2017. The amendment
secures for developing countries a legal pathway to access
affordable medicines. WTO members engaged constructively
across several areas of trade negotiations from mid-2016 as
they began to work towards the WTO’s forthcoming ministerial
conference, to be held in Argentina in December 2017.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

A year in
review

Our year

10

Trade negotiations

10

Implementation and monitoring

12

Dispute settlement

14

Supporting development and building trade capacity

16

Outreach18

2016: a snapshot

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non‑governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

20

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Our year

Trade negotiations
WTO members focused on implementing decisions taken at
the Nairobi and Bali ministerial conferences and on looking
towards potential outcomes for the 11th Ministerial Conference
(MC11) to be held in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

PANTONE COLOURS - COLOUR LOGO (BLUE BACKDROUND)

WTO LOG

In the second half of the year, trade negotiations intensified,
with several proposals being submitted by WTO members,
including on agriculture, services and fisheries subsidies.
In his role as Chair of the Trade Negotiations Committee,
Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo stressed the need to
deepen discussions significantly in the months ahead.

C 0%
M 0%
Y 0%
K 0%

R 254
G 254
B 254

INDONESI

C 100%
M 90%
Y 9%
K 40%

R 30
G 25
B 98

MINISTER

DG Azevêdo emphasized the need for clarity from WTO
members in terms of what they wish to see as a final outcome
and for flexibility to accommodate the circumstances of
other members.
DG Azevêdo stressed that WTO members should take
whatever steps are possible – underlining that on any issue this
would not be the end of the road but a first step. Pragmatism
remained a vital ingredient. Balancing elements was important
so that they took into account members’ different interests

WTO members concentrated on
implementing decisions taken at the Nairobi
and Bali ministerial conferences.

and positions and responded to the needs of developed,
developing and least-developed countries.
In December, the chairs of the negotiating group provided
updates on their activities and considered the way forward
in 2017, including areas for potential outcomes at MC11.
The chairs highlighted constructive engagement across several
issues as a positive development that had not been witnessed
for some time but underlined that in some areas further
engagement was needed.
DG Azevêdo reported that in his consultations in Geneva and
in his visits to capitals, there was a shared desire to deliver
a successful Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires and a
common belief in the importance of sustaining ministerial
engagement in the lead-up to the conference. He highlighted
that outcomes are more likely through incremental progress
rather than major leaps and that WTO members agree on
the importance of advancing the development aspects of
any issues.
DG Azevêdo stressed that work needs to intensify in 2017 as
divergent views remain in many areas. He proposed to facilitate
exchanges among WTO members submitting proposals and
delegations that have shown interest in specific issues so that
they can share views and see how to advance these issues.

WTO members agree on the importance of advancing
the development aspects of any negotiating topics.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

10

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

C 0%
M 0%
Y 0%
K 0%

R 254
G 254
B 254

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

A year in
review
WTO members started to focus on the 11th Ministerial
Conference to be held in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

Negotiations on an Environmental Goods Agreement (EGA)
continued among 18 participants representing 46 WTO
members. A meeting of ministers and senior officials in
December in Geneva made “good progress” and set the stage
for further talks.

46
WTO members are
conducting negotiations
on an Environmental
Goods Agreement.

An Environmental Goods Agreement would potentially slash
tariffs on a broad range of environment-related products
aimed at generating clean and renewable energy, improving
energy and resource efficiency, controlling air pollution and
addressing other environmental concerns. The benefits
of the new agreement would be extended to the entire
WTO membership.
	 See pages 30-43.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Our year

Implementation and
monitoring
A major milestone for the global trading system was reached in early
2017 when the first multilateral deal concluded in the 21-year history
of the WTO entered into force. Following ratification of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement (TFA) by Rwanda, Oman, Chad and Jordan in
February 2017, the WTO obtained the necessary number of acceptances
from the WTO’s 164 members for the Agreement to take effect.

The TFA aims to streamline, simplify and standardise customs
procedures. By easing the flow of goods across borders, it will
help to cut trade costs around the world. Full implementation
of the TFA is forecast to slash WTO members’ trade costs
by an average of 14.3 per cent. The Agreement is expected
to reduce the time needed to import goods by over a day and
a half and to export goods by almost two days, representing
a reduction of 47 per cent and 91 per cent respectively over
the current average. By 2030, the Agreement could add 2.7
percentage points per year to world trade growth and more
than half a percentage point per year to world GDP growth.
The Agreement is unique in that it allows developing countries
to set their own timetable for implementation depending
on their capacity to do so. A Trade Facilitation Agreement
Facility was created to help ensure these countries receive the
assistance needed to reap the full benefits of the TFA.
Another major milestone was the entry into force of the
amendment to the WTO’s intellectual property (TRIPS)
agreement, securing for developing countries a legal pathway
to access affordable medicines under WTO rules. It is the first
time since the launch of the WTO in 1995 that a WTO accord
has been amended.
The amendment came into force in January 2017 after the
protocol containing it was accepted by the necessary twothirds of WTO members. The amendment makes permanent
a mechanism to ease poorer WTO members’ access to
affordable generic medicines produced in other countries.

14.3%

The TFA is forecast to
slash WTO members’
trade costs by an
average of 14.3 per
cent.

The implementation of the Trade Facilitation
Agreement (TFA) in February 2017 is expected to
ease the flow of goods across borders.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

12

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

164

Liberia and Afghanistan joined
the WTO in July 2016, bringing
the WTO’s total number of
members to 164.

Argentina’s offer to host the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11)
was accepted by the General Council, the WTO’s highest
decision‑making body in Geneva. The Council agreed that the
conference would be held in December 2017 in Buenos Aires.
Argentina will be the first South American country to host the
biennial event.
Liberia and Afghanistan became the 163rd and 164th members
of the WTO in July 2016. Later in the year, the General
Council agreed to start WTO membership talks for Somalia
and Timor‑Leste.
The WTO’s other councils and committees continued to meet
regularly throughout the year to ensure that WTO agreements
and rules are being properly implemented. The WTO also
continued its trade monitoring role.

23

A year in
review

The entry into force of
the TRIPS amendment in
January 2017 secures for
developing countries a
legal pathway to access
affordable medicines.

The WTO conducted Trade Policy
Reviews of 23 WTO members in
2016.

The latest trade monitoring report showed a slight decrease in
the number of new trade-restrictive measures introduced by
WTO members. Between mid-October 2015 and mid-October
2016, an average of 15 such measures were introduced
per month compared with the recent peak of 20 measures
per month in 2015. Of the 2,978 trade-restrictive measures
recorded for WTO members since 2008, 740 had been
removed by mid-October 2016.
The WTO’s Trade Policy Review Body (TPRB) reviewed the
trade policies and practices of 23 WTO members in 2016,
bringing the total number of trade policy reviews to 452 since
the TPRB was established in 1989.
See pages 44-103.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Our year

Dispute settlement
The WTO’s dispute settlement system had its busiest year so
far, averaging 22 active panel, arbitration and Appellate Body
proceedings per month. The Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) received
17 requests for consultations, the first step in the dispute settlement
process, and established eight new dispute settlement panels.

Out of the 17 requests for consultations, three complaints
were filed by Brazil – against Indonesia, the United States and
Thailand. Three complaints were also filed by the United States
– all against China on three different matters: export duties
on raw materials, domestic support provided to agricultural
producers and China’s administration of its tariff-rate quotas
for wheat, rice and corn. The other disputes were brought by
China (2), the European Union (2), India (2), Japan (2) and
Turkey, which filed a dispute for the first time since 2003.

17

WTO members brought 17 new
disputes to the WTO in 2016.

Some 520 trade disputes have been brought by WTO
members since the organization was established in 1995.
Two-thirds of the WTO membership has participated in the
system in one way or another. The largest number of disputes

520

520 trade disputes have been
brought to the WTO since the
organization was established in
1995.

has been brought by the United States (112) followed by the
European Union (97), Canada (35) and Brazil (30). The main
respondent in disputes brought to the WTO has been the
United States (129) followed by the European Union (83),
China (38) and India (24).
The disputes address a wide range of trade concerns and
often touch upon global issues, such as human health,
renewable energy, conservation of natural resources and,
more recently, money laundering and tax evasion. A total of
11 panel reports were circulated in 2016.
During 2016, the dispute settlement system began to feel
the benefit of measures introduced to address the challenge
of the mounting number of disputes being brought by WTO

The Dispute Settlement Body
appointed two new Appellate
Body members: Hong Zhao
of China (right) and Hyun
Chong Kim of Korea (centre).

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

14

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

WTO members most involved in disputes, 1995 to 2016

112 129

United States

97 83
European
Union

15 38
China

Japan

A year in
review

Canada 35 18

23 15
17 16 Republic
of Korea

Mexico 23 14
India 23 24
30 16
Brazil
Argentina 20 22

Complainant

members. One of those steps was to reallocate vacant posts
to the legal divisions and to ensure adequate staffing for trade
remedy cases, which are a particularly active area for disputes.
As of the end of 2016, the WTO’s Rules Division, which
handles trade remedy and subsidies disputes, was fully staffing
all its disputes. This was achieved principally by recruiting
more lawyers and by greater assignment flexibility.
The Appellate Body had a busy year in 2016, with eight panel
reports appealed and six Appellate Body reports circulated.
The then chair of the Appellate Body, Thomas Graham,
delivered a lecture on the state of the Appellate Body at
an event in November. He highlighted that the number of
appeals, the number of issues appealed and the number of
pages of submissions have all grown significantly in recent
years. He urged WTO members to work with the Appellate
Body to “maintain, nurture and preserve the trust and

Respondent

credibility that has been built up over the years in this dispute
settlement system”.
The DSB appointed two new Appellate Body members – Hong
Zhao of China and Hyun Chong Kim of Korea – for a term of
four years, starting on 1 December 2016.
In an address to the Appellate Body in January 2017,
DG Azevêdo said: “Recourse to the dispute settlement system
has ensured adherence to negotiated rules, thereby helping
to provide security and predictability in international trade…
The Appellate Body has proven its value, through its rigour
in reviewing panel decisions and its clarification of members’
rights and obligations under the WTO’s covered agreements.
The experience and knowledge that Ms Zhao and Mr Kim
bring to the Appellate Body could not have come at a more
opportune time.”
See pages 104-119.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Our year

Supporting development and
building trade capacity
Support for development and building trade capacity has grown in
importance at the WTO and is now a central focus of the organization’s
activities. Much of the work in this area is conducted through
the Committee on Trade and Development (CTD) which held a
commemorative event in November 2016 to mark its 100th session.

WTO members and representatives from other international
organizations and academia reflected on how trade has
evolved since the Committee held its first meeting 20 years
ago and on what needs to be done to ensure that trade
continues to support developing countries in the future.
“It is a milestone for the CTD, for the WTO, and for the broader
trade and development community,” DG Azevêdo said in an
address. “This is a time for reflection — and it is a time to be
ambitious. We should look at what more the WTO can do to
ensure more people can use trade as a tool for development,”
he added.
In June, the WTO hosted a United Nations session on helping
landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) benefit from trade.
DG Azevêdo told the meeting that capacity-building work
through the WTO’s Aid for Trade initiative can be particularly
beneficial to LLDCs and that implementing the Trade
Facilitation Agreement will be crucial in reducing delays in
transit that can have a significant effect on LLDCs.
Disbursements of Aid for Trade reached US$ 39.8 billion
in 2015, the highest amount for a single year. The WTO
and the OECD launched the 2016 Aid for Trade monitoring
and evaluation exercise, which aims to review Aid for Trade
priorities in advance of the Global Review of Aid for Trade,
to be held at the WTO in July 2017.
In 2016, the Enhanced Integrated Framework launched phase
two of its programme, which aims to help least-developed
countries (LDCs) use trade as a tool for growth. Phase two will

100

The Committee on Trade
and Development
commemorated its 100th
session in November 2016.

run until 2022. Phase one (2009-2015) delivered 142 projects
with a total allocation of US$ 202 million across 51 of the
world’s poorest countries. Most projects were aimed at helping
LDCs improve their capacity to trade and at creating the jobs
that help to lift people out of poverty.
The WTO Secretariat undertook 315 technical assistance
activities in 2016 aimed at helping government officials gain a
better understanding of WTO rules and the multilateral trading
system. Over 18,400 participants benefited from these training
activities, up from some 15,000 in 2015. A total of 10,279
participants from 147 countries (compared with 7,523 in
2015) enrolled for e-learning courses, with Africa providing the
majority of participants (38 per cent) followed by Latin America
(21 per cent), and Asia and the Pacific (20 per cent).
An external evaluation report on the functioning of the WTO’s
technical assistance was issued in October 2016. It noted that
these activities have been increasingly effective in improving
the capacity of developing countries to implement multilateral
trade rules and to participate in global trade. The report also
recommended ways to improve the delivery of training courses
based on the lessons learned over the past five years.

39.8

Disbursements of Aid
for Trade reached
US$ 39.8 billion in 2015,
the highest amount for a
single year.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

16

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

A year in
review
The WTO Secretariat undertook 315 technical assistance activities
in 2016 aimed at helping government officials gain a better
understanding of WTO rules and the multilateral trading system.

Speaking at a meeting of the Committee on Trade and
Development in January 2017, DG Azevêdo said: “When the
WTO was created over two decades ago, technical assistance
was not a major part of our work. Fast forward to today and
it constitutes one of the biggest outputs of the organization.
It has become, unquestionably, a central element of the
WTO’s activities.”

The EIF launched phase two of its programme,
which aims to help least-developed
countries use trade as a tool for growth.

	 See pages 120-137.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Our year

Outreach
Interest in the WTO increased significantly in 2016. This led to the
creation of the Trade Dialogues initiative, which was designed to
facilitate increased engagement from a range of stakeholders. A series
of meetings was held during the year, bringing in representatives
of the private sector, NGOs, academia, labour and consumers.

As part of the Trade Dialogues initiative, the WTO facilitated a
meeting of business leaders at the request of the International
Chamber of Commerce and the B20, the business arm of the G20.
The event brought together over 60 business leaders to
discuss the challenges and opportunities they face in
conducting trade operations and how the WTO could address
the current needs of the business community. The attendees
were from small and large enterprises, from developed and
developing countries, and from a variety of sectors.
In addition to the current negotiating agenda, the business
leaders urged the WTO to look at a wide range of issues,
such as electronic commerce, rules to better facilitate
services and investment flows, support for micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises, action to provide trade finance,
and many others.
The WTO’s major outreach event of the year was the
Public Forum, held in September, which attracted over
1,100 participants to the 100+ sessions held during the three
days of the event. The Forum provides a unique platform
for businesspeople, academics and non-governmental
organisations to come together to discuss some of the
major trade and development issues of the day, with all of
the sessions being organized by the participants. In 2016,
the theme of the event was “inclusive trade”.
Participants underlined the need to promote greater
participation in trade by women and small businesses and the
importance of ensuring that effective policies are put into place
to help the poor and those who may suffer job losses resulting
from trade. In his opening remarks, DG Azevêdo highlighted
the need to ensure that the right policies are adopted so that
the benefits of trade are shared more widely.

100

Over 100 sessions were
held at the 2016 Public
Forum.

The WTO’s inaugural Trade Dialogues event brought together
over 60 business leaders to discuss how the WTO can
address the current needs of the business community.

In July, DG Azevêdo attended the G20 trade ministers meeting
in Shanghai, where he launched the WTO’s World Trade
Outlook Indicator, which aims to give an early indication of
global trade trends. In September, he attended the summit
of the G20 group of leading developed and developing
countries in Hangzhou, China. In November, he presented
then UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon with the WTO
Ministerial Decision on Export Competition, which delivers a
key contribution to meeting the UN’s Sustainable Development
Goal on “Zero Hunger”.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics

18

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

As part of its Trade Dialogues initiative, the WTO launched a
series of lectures to allow technical experts to share their
insights on topical issues, such as the relationship between
trade and labour markets. The aim of the lectures is to promote
informed discussion on these topics at a time when negative
sentiment towards trade and globalization is on the rise.

The WTO’s World Trade
Outlook Indicator was
launched in July to give
an early indication of
global trade trends.

The WTO’s various channels of communication with the public
continued to see increased traffic. The WTO website attracted
almost 1.7 million visits a month in 2016 while its Facebook
page and Twitter account increased to over 250,000 and
275,000 followers respectively.

1.7

The WTO website attracted
almost 1.7 million visits a
month in 2016.

	 See pages 138-165.

Our year
www.wto.org/topics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

19

A year in
review

The Public Forum, the
WTO’s major outreach
event of the year, attracted
over 1,100 participants
to the three-day event
in September 2016.

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Our year

2016: a snapshot
•	 DG Azevêdo pays tribute to Julio
Lacarte-Muró, the first chair of
Appellate Body, who passed away
on 4 March.

•	 DG Azevêdo attends World
Economic Forum in Davos.

•	 DG Azevêdo pays tribute to
Professor John Jackson, pioneer
in the study of international
trade law, who passed away in
November 2015.

•	

•	 DG Azevêdo addresses the World
Trade Symposium in London on the
state of global trade.

•	

February
January
•	 Harald Neple of Norway appointed
as Chair of General Council.

April

May

March
•	 DG Azevêdo and heads of
international agencies meet
German Chancellor Angela Merkel
to discuss the outlook for the
global economy.

June
•	 WTO/World Bank forum on the role
of trade in ending poverty takes
place at WTO.

•	

•	 WTO holds inaugural “Trade
Dialogues” event.

•	

2016: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2016

20

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

•	 Afghanistan becomes 164th member
of WTO.

•	 WTO launches World Trade Outlook
Indicator at ministerial meeting in
Shanghai to provide early indication
of global trade trends.

•	 Director-General selection process
launched; Mr Azevêdo confirms
willingness to serve second term.

•	 Two new Appellate Body members
appointed: Hong Zhao of China and
Hyun Chong Kim of Korea.

A year in
review

•	 Liberia becomes WTO’s
163rd member.

September

•	 DG Azevêdo presents UN
Secretary-General Ban Ki‑moon
with WTO decision on export
competition, fulfilling a key
target in the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals.

October

July

December
November

•	 DG Azevêdo attends G20 Summit in
Hangzhou, China.

•	 WTO members accept
Argentina’s offer to host 2017
Ministerial Conference.

•	 The Comoros starts WTO
membership negotiations.

•	 WTO’s Public Forum focuses on
inclusive trade.

•	 WTO launches World Trade Report
on levelling trading field for SMEs.

•	 WTO membership talks begin for
Somalia and Timor-Leste.

2016: a snapshot
www.wto.org/news2016
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Membership
	 Liberia and Afghanistan joined the WTO in July 2016,
bringing the WTO’s total membership to 164.
	 In December 2016, WTO members agreed to begin WTO
membership negotiations for Somalia and Timor-Leste.
	 Twenty-one governments are currently negotiating WTO membership.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

24

A global membership

28

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non‑governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Membership

Joining the WTO

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Membership

Joining the WTO
Liberia and Afghanistan became the 163rd and 164th members of the WTO in 2016.
Members agreed to start WTO membership talks for the Federal Republic of Somalia and
the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and to welcome them as observers to the WTO.
Comoros kicked off its accession negotiations, while the working parties for the accession
of Belarus and Sudan have resumed after interruptions of 12 and 13 years, respectively.

Liberia joined the WTO as its 163rd member on 14 July 2016,
followed by Afghanistan, which became the organization’s
164th member on 29 July 2016. Somalia and Timor-Leste
took the first step in the process of becoming WTO members
by sending applications to the Director-General requesting
accession. Members agreed at a General Council meeting
on 7 December to initiate membership negotiations.
Two working parties were established to examine their
respective applications.

Liberia
Liberia joined the WTO after eight years of negotiating its
accession terms with WTO members. It became the eighth
LDC to negotiate its accession to the WTO since the
organization’s launch in 1995.

Liberia and Afghanistan became WTO members 30 days after
notifying the Director-General of the formal acceptance of their
accession packages. Their accession increases the number
of least-developed countries (LDCs) in the WTO and brings
the WTO ever closer to its goal of universal membership.
LDCs represent a fifth of the WTO membership.

Ahead of Liberia’s accession, the WTO Secretariat organized
a national workshop on 27-29 June in Liberia on the
implementation of the country’s WTO accession commitments
and discussed how Liberia can take advantage of membership
under the WTO’s Least-developed Countries (LDCs) and
Accessions Programme (also known as the China Programme).
It was the first post-accession technical assistance activity
organized by the WTO Secretariat and sponsored by the
China Programme (see below).

The accession packages, or entry terms, contain specific
commitments binding the countries to WTO rules, including
commitments on market access for goods and services.
The WTO accession process promotes the integration of new
members into the global economy and, in return, acceding
economies undertake to liberalize their trade regimes.

“Liberia’s accession underscores the WTO’s commitment to
supporting the participation of LDCs in the multilateral trading
system,” Director-General Roberto Azevêdo said. “WTO
membership will help Liberia to benefit from the international
trade and investment that is essential to build the economy and
improve people’s lives,” he added.

The length of accession processes varies depending on the
negotiating commitment of the acceding economy, the degree
to which its trade rules are already WTO-consistent and the
complexity of the subject matter of the negotiations, which
differs from one negotiation to another.

Background on joining the WTO
Since the WTO was launched in 1995, 36 members
have joined the organization, including China,
Russia and Saudi Arabia, and 21 states or separate
customs territories are seeking to join. The WTO
is open to states or customs territories with full
autonomy over their external commercial relations.
To join the WTO, a government has to bring its
economic and trade policies in line with WTO
rules and principles and negotiate with the WTO
membership on guaranteed minimum levels of access
to their domestic markets for goods and services.

Liberia became the 163rd member of the WTO on 14 July 2016.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

24

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Liberia
Accession Working Party report
Paragraphs with commitment language

31

Market access for goods
Average final bound tariff rates:
All goods

26.7%

Agricultural goods

23.8%

Non-agricultural goods

27.2%

Market access for services
Sectors

11
102

Membership

Sub-sectors

Afghanistan
Afghanistan became the WTO’s
164th member on 29 July 2016.

Afghanistan joined the WTO some 12 years after starting its
negotiations on accession terms with WTO members.
“This is an historic day for Afghanistan and its integration
into the global economy,” said Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo. “We arrived at this point thanks to the commitment
of President Mohammad Ashraf Ghani and the government of
Afghanistan. WTO membership will be a foundation stone in
the country’s future development.”
Afghanistan also ratified the WTO’s Trade Facilitation
Agreement (TFA) (see page 73) and deposited the instrument
of acceptance – signifying its formal acceptance – on the first
day of its membership.

Somalia
Somalia applied for WTO accession on 12 December
2015. Members agreed to establish a working party for its
accession negotiations at the General Council meeting on
7 December 2016. Faduma Abdulahi Mohamud, Ambassador
and Permanent Representative of Somalia in Geneva, said:
“Many developing countries, particularly LDCs, such as my
own, are keen to join the WTO because, among other things,
the WTO promotes lower trade barriers, fair competition, nondiscrimination, encourages development and economic reform
while providing flexibilities for adjustment.”

Afghanistan
Accession Working Party report
Paragraphs with commitment language

37

Market access for goods
Average final bound tariff rates:
All goods

13.5%

Agricultural goods

33.6%

Non-agricultural goods

10.3%

Market access for services
Sectors
Sub-sectors

11
104

On 7 December 2016, WTO members
agreed to establish a working party for
Somalia’s accession negotiations.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Membership
Somalia, an LDC, has a population of approximately 11 million.
The 2012 Human Development Report estimated Somalia’s
gross domestic product per capita at US$ 284 compared with
the sub-Saharan Africa average of US$ 1,300. Livestock is
the backbone of the economy: 60 per cent of the population is
dependent on livestock production.

Timor-Leste
Timor-Leste applied for WTO accession on 7 April 2015.
Members agreed to establish a working party for its accession
process at the General Council meeting on 7 December 2016.
Estanislau Aleixo da Silva, Coordinating Minister of Economic
Affairs and Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries of Timor-Leste,
said: “Timor-Leste prioritizes WTO membership as it would
help to leverage ongoing improvements in its infrastructure,
human capital and administrative capacity to accelerate growth
and economic diversification.”
Timor-Leste is also an LDC. It has a population of
approximately 1.2 million. Some 72 per cent of households are
rural and make their living from agriculture. The GDP per capita
in Timor-Leste stood at US$ 988 in 2015, equivalent to 8 per
cent of the global average.

The first meeting of the working party
on the accession of the Comoros
was held on 6 December 2016.

Belarus
WTO members welcomed the resumption of WTO
membership negotiations for Belarus when the working party
on the country’s accession met on 24 January 2017 – 12 years
after its last formal meeting. At the meeting, the first since May
2005, Andrei Yeudachenka, First Deputy Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Belarus, emphasized that WTO accession is a
priority for the country.

Sudan

On 7 December 2016, WTO members
agreed to establish a working party for
Timor Leste’s accession negotiations.

Comoros
The first meeting of the working party on the accession of
the Comoros was held on 6 December 2016. The Comoros
has set the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11), to be held in
Buenos Aires in December 2017, as the target date for the
conclusion of its accession negotiations.

Sudan’s membership negotiations resumed on 31 January
2017 – 13 years after the last working party meeting. In a
statement, Sudan’s Minister of International Cooperation,
Osman Ahmed Fadul Wash, underscored the government’s
commitment to the accession process. He called on WTO
members to accelerate negotiations, adding he hoped that
Sudan would be in a position to accede to the WTO by MC11.

Technical assistance
Acceding governments were invited to participate in over
100 WTO technical assistance activities in 2016, including
seminars, workshops, advanced trade policy courses,
e-learning and trade policy forums. The WTO Secretariat
continued to implement the China Least-Developed Countries
and Accessions Programme (China Programme), which aims
to assist acceding LDCs and strengthen LDC members’
participation in the WTO. As part of the programme,
four interns – from Angola, Iran, Mali and Tajikistan – will

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members

26

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

participate in 2016-2017 in the internship scheme in the
WTO Secretariat.
Several technical missions were undertaken to WTO acceding
countries as well as countries that have shown interest in WTO
accession to assist them in their accession processes and
applications. The beneficiaries of these missions were Bhutan,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Lebanon, Sudan, Timor-Leste
and Turkmenistan.

The first training course on trade in services for acceding
governments was organized on 28 November to 2 December.
Participants included 27 officials from 14 governments.
Under the sponsorship of the China Programme, the WTO
Secretariat also organized the first-ever dedicated training
on post-accession, for Liberia (see above) and Afghanistan.
The Afghanistan course took place in July in Bangkok, Thailand.
The WTO Secretariat continued to work on accessions with
other institutions: the Enhanced Integrated Framework (see
page 130), the International Trade Centre, the Swedish National
Board of Trade, the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe, the United Nations Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific and the World Bank.

21

164

Membership

The WTO Secretariat initiated several technical assistance
activities in 2016. The first trade policy forum with a focus
on Central Asia took place in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan,
in May 2016. Organized in partnership with the United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe, it focused
on WTO accessions and associated domestic reforms,
and regional integration.

The WTO has 164 members following the
accessions of Liberia and Afghanistan in July 2016.
Awareness of accession activities was further enhanced
through outreach dialogue with WTO regional groups and the
Director-General’s Annual Report on WTO Accessions.

Accession Intelligence Portal
In 2016, the WTO Secretariat launched the Accessions
Intelligence Portal (AIP), which contains information on all
ongoing and completed WTO accessions since 1995 as well
as other accession-related information, such as the process
for becoming a WTO member, technical assistance activities,
relevant publications and other resources.

21 governments are currently
negotiating WTO membership.

Joining the WTO
www.wto.org/members
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Membership

A global membership
The WTO’s 164 members represent 98 per cent of world trade.

Liberia joined the WTO on 14 July
2016. Afghanistan became a WTO
member on 29 July 2016.

WTO members
New members in 2016
New observers in 2016
Observers
Non-members
Source: WTO and World Bank.

For a full list of WTO members and observers, see page 180.

Liberia
New member in 2016
Geographical area

111,370 sq. km

Population (2015)

4,503,438

GDP (million current US$, 2015)

2,053

GDP per capita (US$, 2013-2015)

456

Trade per capita (US$, 2013-2015)

359

Trade (% GDP, 2013-2015)

78.7
Merchandise: 171

Rank in world trade
(2015) – Exports

Commercial services: 163

Rank in world trade
(2015) – Imports

Commercial services: 152

Merchandise: 149

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions

28

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Membership
Afghanistan
New member in 2016
Geographical area

652,860 sq. km

Population (2015)

32,526,562

GDP (million current
US$, 2015)

19,199

GDP per capita (US$, 2013-2015)

The map does not intend to show WTO members’
non-metropolitan/overseas territories or the status of
such territories in regard to the WTO agreements.

625

Trade per capita (US$, 2013-2015)

171

Trade (% GDP, 2013-2015)

27.4
Merchandise: 164

Rank in world trade
(2015) – Exports

Commercial services: 136

Rank in world trade
(2015) – Imports

Commercial services: 113

Merchandise: 120

A global membership
www.wto.org/accessions
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
	 WTO members intensified their engagement across several
areas of negotiation as they began to look towards the
forthcoming ministerial conference in December 2017.
	 The chairs of the negotiating groups highlighted constructive
engagement across several issues but underlined that
further engagement by WTO members is needed.
	 Negotiations among 46 WTO members on an Environmental
Goods Agreement made further progress. A meeting in
December 2016 set the stage for further talks.

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations in 2016

32

Agriculture34
36

Services37
Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)

39

Trade and development

40

Trade and environment

40

WTO rules

42

Dispute Settlement Understanding

43

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains regular dialogue
with non‑governmental organizations,
parliamentarians, other international
organizations, the media and the general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

Trade
Negotiations

Market access for non‑agricultural products

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Trade negotiations in 2016
WTO members focused on implementing outcomes from the Nairobi and Bali
ministerial conferences and on responding to instructions from ministers
in Nairobi on trade negotiations. Following a period of reflection in the first
half of the year, there was re-energized and constructive engagement from
July onwards across several areas of negotiations as members began to look
towards the 11th Ministerial Conference to be held in Buenos Aires in December
2017. In response to the success in Bali and Nairobi, the private sector urged
the WTO to deliver further outcomes to boost growth and development.

Nairobi conference and future work
After the Nairobi Ministerial Conference in December 2015,
WTO members focused on two main areas of work. First,
they sought to implement outcomes from the ministerial
conferences in Nairobi (2015) and Bali (2013) on export
competition (see page 35), cotton, issues concerning
least‑developed countries (LDC), the Trade Facilitation
Agreement (see page 73), a permanent solution on public
stockholding for food security purposes (see page 35) and
a special safeguard mechanism (see page 35). Secondly,
they sought to respond to ministers’ instructions regarding
remaining Doha Development Agenda (DDA) issues and nonDDA issues.
The Nairobi Ministerial Declaration acknowledged that there
was no consensus on how to proceed with the DDA. However,
it also expressed ministers’ strong commitment to advance
negotiations on the remaining Doha issues. Development
has to be at the core and priority given to the concerns and
interests of LDCs. Ministers instructed members to “find ways

Background on trade negotiations
At the WTO’s Fourth Ministerial Conference in Doha,
Qatar, in November 2001, WTO members agreed to
launch a new round of trade negotiations. They also
agreed to work on other issues, in particular the
implementation of the current WTO agreements.
The entire package is called the Doha Development
Agenda. The negotiations take place in the Trade
Negotiations Committee (TNC) and its subsidiaries,
which are regular councils and committees meeting
in special session or specially created negotiating
bodies. The negotiating bodies report to the TNC,
which supervises the overall conduct of their work.

to advance negotiations” and requested the Director‑General
to report regularly to the General Council on these efforts.
Some decisions taken by ministers in Nairobi call for specific
follow-up action, including “negotiating” action – for example
on public stockholding for food security.
While ministers agreed that work should be prioritized where
results have not yet been achieved, they also acknowledged
that some WTO members wished to discuss issues outside
the DDA, and others did not. They agreed that the launching of
multilateral negotiations on any issue would need agreement of
all members.
In the first half of the year, members were mostly in “reflection
mode” about the next steps. In their conversations, there
was a clear emphasis on putting development at the centre
and on prioritizing LDC issues. In May, the Chair of the Trade
Negotiations Committee (TNC), Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo, reported that he had heard nothing that could
promise a breakthrough on the outstanding DDA issues.
The difficulties were mostly political and revolved around
fundamental conceptual differences about “what” and “how”
each member should contribute to any outcome. There was
no overlap in positions, he said. However, he was encouraged
that nobody was giving up; new ideas and concepts were still
being explored.
Beyond the core Doha issues of agriculture, non-agricultural
market access (NAMA) and services, other issues that
members wished to discuss at that point included fisheries
subsidies, competition policy, micro, small and medium-sized
businesses (MSMEs), investment facilitation, e-commerce,
private standards and non-tariff barriers (NTBs).

Moving from reflection to action
From May, the Chair stressed the importance of moving
to a proposal-driven process if members are to deliver

Trade negotiations in 2016
www.wto.org/tnc

32

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

11
The 11th WTO Ministerial Conference
will be held in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, in December 2017.

results by the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11), to be held in
Buenos Aires in December 2017. Members need to firmly and
quickly establish their priorities for negotiations. This means
becoming more specific both about which issues they wish
to pursue and how they should be advanced. Creativity,
open‑mindedness and continued and increased political buy-in
from capitals will be important, he added.

Available paths
The Chair emphasized that members need to better
understand the negotiating paths available to them. The Nairobi
Declaration stated that any multilateral negotiation on nonDDA issues must be approved by consensus. Some members
want to start conversations on certain issues before it has
been established if multilateral negotiations will be required or
desirable, the Chair said.
DG Azêvedo stressed that whatever approach is taken
should be inclusive and open to all members – at least as a
starting point – letting all members participate actively and
constructively. A multilateral approach should be preferred and
future negotiations should be flexible and recognize fully the
diversity of the membership, following the example of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement (TFA). Technical assistance should be
included as a fundamental ingredient for success, he said.

Trade
Negotiations

As Chair of the Trade
Negotiations Committee,
Director‑General Roberto
Azevêdo regularly
reported on the activities
of the negotiating groups.

Looking to Buenos Aires
From July, there was more engagement in the negotiations in
Geneva. Several papers were submitted by WTO members,
including on agriculture, services and fisheries subsidies.
The Chair stressed the need to deepen discussions
significantly in the months ahead, maintaining and enhancing
the focus on development and LDC issues.
Several other issues were raised during a range of exchanges
in different formats between members. The exchanges
included informal workshops on issues such as MSMEs,
e-commerce and digital trade. A number of submissions were
circulated on e-commerce, in particular.
In September, given the challenges facing the global trading
system, the Chair urged members to redouble their efforts to
continue delivering trade reforms to generate more inclusive
growth and development gains. These challenges included
a revised downward forecast of global trade growth (see
page 96) to 1.7 per cent in 2016 – the lowest since the 2008
financial crisis – and widespread concerns about the growth
of anti-trade rhetoric. It is important that members deepen their
discussion about what they wish to achieve at MC11 and focus
on how to get there, the Chair said.
Some issues started to attract particular attention. These
included public stockholding for food security and other
agriculture topics, such as domestic support (subsidies) and
services, along with SMEs, e-commerce, services facilitation
and fisheries subsidies. If members are to make progress,
the Chair emphasized the need for clarity from the proponents
on what they wish to see as a final outcome and for flexibility to
accommodate the circumstances of different members.
The immediate priority was to deepen conversations between
members to scope out the issues for MC11. The Chair
stressed that members should take whatever steps are
possible – stressing that on any issue this would not be the

Trade negotiations in 2016
www.wto.org/tnc
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
end of the road but a first step. Pragmatism remained a vital
ingredient. Balancing elements was important so that they
took into account members’ different interests and positions
and responded to the needs of developed, developing and
least‑developed members.
In December, members and negotiating group chairs provided
updates on their activities and considered the way forward in
2017, including for MC11. The chairs highlighted re-energized
and constructive engagement across several issues as a
positive development that had not been witnessed for some
time but in some areas the situation had not evolved much.
The Chair also reported on his consultations in Geneva and
his visits to capitals. Common points in these discussions
have included a shared desire to deliver concrete results at
MC11 and belief in the importance of sustaining ministerial
engagement throughout the preparatory process. He also
highlighted awareness that outcomes are more likely through
incremental progress rather than major leaps and agreement
on the importance of advancing the development and LDC
component of any issues.
The Chair stressed that while members can look back at
a constructive year of discussion and debate, work needs
to intensify in 2017. Divergent views remain in many areas.
Convergent views, but with different approaches, have also
been expressed. In 2017, he proposed to facilitate exchanges
among proponents and delegations that have shown interest
in specific issues so that they can share views and see how to
advance these issues.

Agriculture
In 2016, WTO members focused on identifying
the next potential outcomes for agriculture
negotiations, particularly at the 11th Ministerial
Conference (MC11) in December 2017. An outcome
on domestic support (farm subsidies) and cotton
is seen by the majority of WTO members as a
priority for MC11. The Chair of the special session
of the Committee on Agriculture, Vangelis Vitalis
(New Zealand), said he was “encouraged” by
the state of the discussions. He held numerous
consultations with members, including dedicated
sessions on public stockholding for food security
purposes and on a special safeguard mechanism.
WTO members worked intensively to identify what can
realistically constitute the next outcomes of the agriculture
negotiations. The general view was that agriculture should form
part of any results at the 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11) to
be held in Argentina in December 2017. Many members said,
however, that an outcome on agriculture is difficult to envisage
without progress in other areas of the Doha Development
Agenda (DDA).
Members made various submissions on domestic support
aimed at advancing negotiations and targeting trade-distorting
subsidies. A certain number of the Cairns Group of agricultural
produce-exporting countries submitted a statistical paper on
domestic support and a set of questions, including on the way
to achieve “substantial progressive reductions in support and
protection”. Least-developed countries (LDCs) wanted to know
what members are ready to contribute to an outcome, notably
on products of special interest to them (including cotton).
While none of the ideas or options put forward enjoyed
consensus, the debates displayed renewed intensity and
creativity. “I have been encouraged by the engagement we
have had during this meeting and therefore with the state of
our negotiations,” Ambassador Vitalis said in November at the

Background on agriculture
The agriculture negotiations began in 2000 under
a commitment that WTO members made in the
1986‑94 Uruguay Round to continue farm trade
reforms. They were brought into the Doha Round
when it was launched in 2001. Broadly, the objective
is to reduce distortions in agricultural trade caused
by high tariffs and other barriers, export subsidies
and domestic support. The negotiations take
place in the WTO Committee on Agriculture,
meeting in special session. They also take into
account social and political sensitivities in the
sector and the needs of developing countries.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs

34

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Nairobi on export competition would be a distraction from the
other issues.

session’s final 2016 meeting. He said the significant number of
questions and submissions members had circulated underlined
the commitment of all to engage with one another on domestic
support and “more particularly on what may be do-able for the
meeting in Buenos Aires”.
Many WTO members maintained that negotiations on market
access (essentially tariffs) are also a priority. However, others
considered that progress in this area will be contingent on
movement elsewhere in the negotiations. Towards the end
of 2016, members intensified work in this area, with several
putting forward ideas for advancing negotiations on specific
market access issues. These included tropical products, tariff
escalation (whereby tariffs increase along processing chains),
tariff peaks (i.e. relatively high tariffs on particular goods),
converting tariffs into ad valorem rates (i.e. tariff rates in
proportion to the estimated value of the goods) and special
products (i.e. products for which developing countries are to
be given extra flexibility in market access).
The Chair told members that he detected “an intensification
and expansion of interest” in the negotiations on agricultural
market access. “Clearly there has been a shifting of gear in this
negotiation,” Ambassador Vitalis said, noting that although it
is not as high a priority as domestic support, market access is
now a livelier part of the agriculture negotiations.

Export competition
A small group of WTO members expressed interest in
continuing negotiations on export competition, one of the
major successes of the 10th Ministerial Conference in Nairobi
in 2015. In Nairobi, ministers took the historic decision to
eliminate export subsidies for agricultural products. Developed
countries were to eliminate export subsidies immediately, as a
general rule, while developing countries were given longer
implementation periods.
Some WTO members argued that there is “unfinished
business” in export competition. Canada circulated a paper
calling for stronger rules on export finance. But most members
considered that trying to go beyond what was agreed in

Public stockholding for food security
Several dedicated sessions were held on public stockholding
for food security purposes. Proponents say that stockpiles
procured at administered prices are needed to ensure food
security but others fear that, without appropriate disciplines,
these programmes lead to over-production and high stockpiles
that could depress prices and affect farm incomes and food
security elsewhere.
The Ninth Ministerial Conference in Bali in 2013 set a deadline
of the 11th Ministerial Conference for resolving the issue. Until
a permanent solution is found, support to farmers provided
under public stockholding programmes is allowed by the WTO,
providing certain conditions are met.
Members kept to their well-known positions. WTO members
consider food security a legitimate policy objective but they
continue to disagree on how to shape the permanent solution.
Nevertheless, members agree there is a clear mandate and a
2017 deadline for resolving the issue.

Special Safeguard Mechanism
Several dedicated discussions on the Special Safeguard
Mechanism (SSM) were held in 2016. A special safeguard
would allow developing countries to raise tariffs temporarily
to deal with import surges or price falls. Members differ on
whether an outcome in SSM can be sought independently
of advances in the overall discussions on agricultural market
access and also on the links between SSM and other
outstanding issues in the negotiations.
The G33 of developing food-importing countries and the
African, Caribbean and Pacific group (ACP) argue that
an SSM would respond to the objectives of developing
countries on food security and rural development. However,
major exporting countries of agriculture products (including
developing countries) remain concerned that an SSM could
limit their exports. They argue that trade-offs in market access
will be necessary to compensate.

Cotton
The overwhelming majority of WTO members made clear
that cotton subsidies (see page 125) should be part of any
outcome on domestic support. Such an outcome is the main
priority for the Cotton 4 producing countries – Mali, Chad,
Benin and Burkina Faso – who received the support of
many members including other LDCs. Several contributions
circulated by members in 2016 addressed this point.
The cotton transparency and monitoring process resulting
from the Bali Ministerial Decision and extended by the Nairobi

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agnegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

35

Trade
Negotiations

Ambassador
Vangelis Vitalis
chaired the
agriculture
negotiations
in 2016.

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
Ministerial Decision continued in 2016. Two dedicated
discussions of the relevant trade-related developments for
cotton were held, in July and November. As in previous years,
the WTO Secretariat provided a background paper compiling
information and data from members’ notifications and other
submissions. Members also benefited from presentations by
the International Cotton Advisory Committee on the global
cotton market and trade trends as well as recent developments
relating to government measures in favour of cotton.

Ambassador
Didier Chambovey
chaired the
market access
negotiations from
October 2016.

Export restrictions
Among other issues in the negotiations, the importance of
improved transparency in the application of export restrictions
on foodstuffs has been raised by importing WTO members.
A paper by Singapore in 2016 on this topic received interest
from a large number of members.

Market access for
non‑agricultural products
In 2016, the Negotiating Group on Market Access
met three times, principally to give transparency
to consultations conducted by the Chair on
how to move forward on the non‑agricultural
market access (NAMA) negotiations. In
October, the Negotiating Group elected
Ambassador Didier Chambovey of Switzerland
as the new Chair. Both chairs reported little
progress in determining the way forward.
In the first half of 2016, the then Chair, Remigi Winzap
(Switzerland), held a number of bilateral meetings to
seek views on how to re-engage the NAMA negotiations
following the Nairobi Ministerial Declaration. In Nairobi,
ministers reaffirmed “a strong commitment of all members to
advance negotiations” on the remaining issues of the Doha
Development Agenda (DDA), including on NAMA. At the
Group’s first meeting in 2016, Ambassador Winzap reported
that members appeared to “be looking for a foothold in the
post-Nairobi discussions”. He identified essentially three views
among members on the negotiations.

Background on market access for
non‑agricultural products
Non-agricultural products are products not covered
by the Agreement on Agriculture. These range
from manufactured goods to fuels and fisheries.
Collectively, they represent more than 90 per cent
of world merchandise trade. The negotiations aim
to reduce or, as appropriate, eliminate tariffs as well
as non-tariff barriers, particularly on goods of export
interest to developing countries. The negotiations are
conducted in the Negotiating Group on Market Access.

Market access for non‑agricultural products
www.wto.org/namanegs

36

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

The largest group wished to continue working on NAMA
issues (both tariffs and non-tariff barriers) in tandem with
other Doha issues, he said. A second, much smaller group did
not see “the comparative advantage of WTO as a forum for
market access negotiations anymore”, and therefore was not
particularly enthusiastic about pursuing work on NAMA market
access for the time being. A third group of a few members was
either indifferent to further work on NAMA issues at this stage
or was defensive about engaging in new tariff cuts in light of
the “difficult macro-economic environment”.

The new Chair, Ambassador Didier Chambovey (Switzerland),
officially took up his role on 20 October. He undertook
consultations which focused on possible NAMA outcomes
for the next WTO Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires
in December 2017. At an informal meeting of the Group in
November, the Chair reported that his conclusions were not
very different from those of his predecessor. “Opinions were
wide-ranging and difficult to reconcile,” he said.
The Chair said he detected more movement in issues such as
non-tariff barriers than in negotiations on tariff cuts. But there
is no unanimity in support of such discussions. Furthermore,
some members foresee difficulties in concluding a binding
agreement in this area, the Chair added. Overall, there had
been “no substantive change nor evolution” in positions,
he said, adding that “no papers have been submitted to this
negotiating group in a very long time”.
Nevertheless, he encouraged those “who wished to have a
discussion on NAMA to initiate the process with fresh ideas
and proposals”.

Services

Trade
Negotiations

The assessment had not changed by the time Ambassador
Winzap issued his final report as Chair in July 2016. He said
there continued to be an “absence of traction” in the broader
market access negotiations. However, several members were
interested in working on non-tariff barriers, for instance by
improving information among WTO members on issues such
as transparency, good regulatory practice, food labelling or
e‑labelling (the posting of user information on the Internet),
he added.

Ambassador
Marcelo Cima
chaired the
services
negotiations
in 2016.

In 2016, WTO members expressed strong
interest in revitalizing services negotiations
during meetings of the special session
of the Council for Trade in Services.
The Chair of the special session, Ambassador Marcelo Cima
(Argentina), told the November meeting that headway will be
possible if negotiating demands are realistic, if leadership
is exercised, and if balance, flexibility and development
considerations are duly taken into account. He called on
negotiators to move towards specific proposals and to focus
on both process and content.
WTO members pointed to three broad areas as possible
priorities for negotiating work: domestic regulation, market
access and e-commerce. Most delegations identified domestic
regulation as a key area of interest, as shown by the various
proposals put forward by delegations in the Working Party on
Domestic Regulation (see below).

Background on services
Services are the most important economic activity in
the large majority of countries when measured as a
share of overall production, and are the single largest
source of employment. The General Agreement on
Trade in Services (GATS) mandates WTO members
to progressively open up trade in services through
successive rounds of negotiations. At the Doha
Ministerial Conference in November 2001, the services
negotiations became part of the Doha Development
Agenda. They are overseen by the Council for Trade in
Services, meeting in special session, and its subsidiary
bodies, in particular the Working Party on Domestic
Regulation and the Working Party on GATS Rules.

Services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations
Several WTO members mentioned market access as another
priority area. A number of delegations said that progress
is long overdue because commitments under the General
Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS) have not kept pace
with trade opening that has occurred around the world. Several
delegations pointed to the large and long-standing gaps
between members’ commitments and the rules they apply,
which are often more open. Some members considered that
the focus should be on removing this “water” between formal
commitments and current practices.
Several WTO members highlighted e-commerce as a possible
third priority area. They drew attention to the extensive
role of services, which provide the basic infrastructure
for e-commerce (e.g. telecommunication and distribution
services), and to the fact that a broad range of services are
supplied electronically.

cross-border movement of services suppliers (known as
“mode 4”), it suggests simplifying work permit and visa
procedures and ensuring that measures relating to taxation,
fees and social security contributions do not unfairly
disadvantage foreign service suppliers.
A large number of WTO members engaged in discussing the
proposals. Members agreed that work needs to be focused
and intensified if progress is to be made in 2017.

GATS rules
Given the overall negotiating context, the Working Party on
GATS Rules made little progress in its technical discussions
on emergency safeguard measures, government procurement
and subsidies.

While general statements of interests regarding market access
and e-commerce were discussed, no specific negotiating
proposal was submitted and discussions will continue in 2017.

Domestic regulation
Negotiating activity in 2016 concentrated largely on regulatory
aspects of services trade. This was carried out in the Working
Party on Domestic Regulation (WPDR). WTO members
agreed to work on the basis of the full WPDR mandate, i.e.
to develop any necessary disciplines to ensure that licensing
and qualification requirements and procedures do not
constitute unnecessary barriers to trade in services.
A group of WTO members (Australia, Chile, Colombia,
the European Union, Japan, Mexico, Norway, Peru, Republic of
Korea and Chinese Taipei) presented a draft proposal on the
administration of regulatory measures, such as timeframes and
processing for applications, fees, and examinations that may
be required to obtain authorization to supply services.
The elements set out in the proposal build on earlier draft texts
and the proponents’ latest practices in preferential services
agreements. They were presented as a building block for
more comprehensive disciplines which would also contain
other elements, such as obligations on the development of
regulatory measures and transparency as well as provisions
on development.
India presented a new proposal to reduce the bottlenecks
that services and services suppliers face. These include high
fees, opaque and cumbersome procedures and complex
requirements for licensing and movement of persons.
In addition to addressing the administration of regulatory
measures, the proposal seeks to increase transparency,
facilitate the supply of all four services “modes” (see page 75)
and promote cooperation between regulatory agencies of
various WTO members.
For services supplied through “mode 3” (a foreign company
setting up subsidiaries or branches to provide services in
another country), the proposal suggests streamlining the
setting up of businesses through a “single window”. For the

Services
www.wto.org/servicesnegs

38

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

The Chair of the TRIPS Council in special session
held consultations with WTO members on how
to advance negotiations on a geographical
indications (GI) register. It continued its
deliberations on the application of “non-violation
and situation complaints” to the TRIPS Agreement
but members’ positions remained wide apart.

Negotiations on a GI register
The Chair of the TRIPS Council in special session,
Ambassador Dacio Castillo (Honduras), held consultations
with WTO members on how to advance negotiations on the
geographical indications register. While emphasizing the
continued importance of these negotiations, members were
divided on whether it is realistic to hope for an outcome in
this area at the 11th Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires
in December 2017. Little progress was made either on
the substance of the GI register or on new approaches to
the negotiations.
The register is intended to facilitate the protection of GIs
for wines and spirits. These are indications (including place
names or other terms or signs associated with a place) used
to identify products whose place of origin contributes to their
special qualities, reputation or other characteristics.
Members have long disagreed on the legal effects a GI register
should have and whether the effects would apply to all WTO
members or only to those who choose to participate in the
register. They remained divided on product coverage and on
whether, as the negotiating mandate says, the register should
be confined to GIs for wines and spirits or whether it could
also apply to other products, such as food and agricultural

Ambassador
Dacio Castillo
chaired
the TRIPS
negotiations
in 2016.

goods. Differences also remained over whether linkages
should be made between the GI register negotiations and the
other TRIPS-related implementation issues (see below).

Outstanding implementation issues
In 2016, the question of whether the TRIPS obligation to
give a “higher” level of protection for wine and spirit GIs
should be extended to GIs for other products remained
inactive. Members differ on whether extending such higher
protection would help trade in such products or would create
an unnecessary legal and commercial burden. This question
of possible “GI extension” is the first of two so-called
“outstanding implementation issues” in the TRIPS area on
which the 2005 Hong Kong Ministerial Declaration called for
consultations by the Director-General.
The second of these issues concerns the relationship between
the TRIPS Agreement and the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD): whether – and, if so, how – TRIPS should
do more to promote the CBD objective of equitably sharing
the benefits that arise when genetic resources are used in
research and industry.

Background on TRIPS
The Doha Development Agenda mandates negotiations
on a multilateral system for notifying and registering
geographical indications (GI) for wines and spirits.
The Council for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual
Property Rights (TRIPS) carries out the negotiations
in special session. In its regular sessions, the TRIPS
Council implements other relevant ministerial
decisions, notably those relating to technology
transfer and dispute settlement. The Hong Kong
Ministerial Declaration mandated the Director-General
to consult on certain TRIPS-related implementation
issues identified in the Doha Declaration.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/tripsnegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

39

Trade
Negotiations

Trade-related aspects of
intellectual property
rights (TRIPS)

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

Ambassador
Tan Yee Woan
chaired the trade
and development
negotiations
in 2016.

In the informal meetings, proponents reiterated the importance
they attach to the industrialization of their economies and
that this remains the objective of the flexibilities they are
seeking through strengthened S&D provisions. Discussions
in the special session will resume once revised proposals
are submitted.

Trade and environment

Trade and development
In 2016, the Chair of the special session of
the Committee on Trade and Development,
Ambassador Tan Yee Woan (Singapore),
met informally with negotiating groups
working on presenting revised proposals
on special and differential treatment
(S&D) for developing countries.
The Chair had several informal meetings with group
coordinators and focal points from the LDC (least-developed
countries) Group, the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group
and the African Group and other members.
In the run-up to the 10th Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in
2015, and at the conference itself, the Chair and members of
the special session had worked hard to close gaps on a series
of proposals on special and differential treatment (S&D) for
developing countries. But differences remained too wide and
no agreed text could be presented to the ministers.

The Chair of the Committee on Trade and
Environment in special session held regular
informal consultations with WTO members to
discuss the way forward in the negotiations
under the Doha Development Agenda.
A group of WTO members is also undertaking
separate negotiations on an Environmental
Goods Agreement outside the Committee.
The Chair of the special session, Ambassador Syed Tauqir
Shah (Pakistan), held consultations during 2016 on the
environment chapter of the Doha Development Agenda
(DDA), seeking ways to advance negotiations on the mandate.
However, the situation remained unchanged from the run-up to
the Nairobi Ministerial Conference in December 2015.

Ambassador
Syed Tauqir Shah
chaired the trade
and environment
negotiations
in 2016.

S&D refers to the special treatment, or flexibility, granted to
developing countries in WTO agreements, such as longer
implementation periods. Differences among WTO members
include the definition of who exactly should benefit from S&D.

Background on trade and development
Many WTO agreements contain provisions that give
developing countries special rights and that allow
developed countries to treat them more favourably than
other WTO members. As part of the Doha Round of
negotiations, the special session of the Committee on
Trade and Development is reviewing these “special
and differential treatment” provisions, with a view to
making them more precise, effective and operational.

Background on trade and environment
The negotiations on trade and environment, part of
the Doha Development Agenda, take place in the
Committee on Trade and Environment in special
session. The negotiations aim to ensure that trade
and environment policies are mutually supportive.

Trade and development
www.wto.org/developmentnegs

40

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Environmental Goods Agreement
Negotiations on an Environmental Goods
Agreement (EGA) continued among
18 participants representing 46 WTO
members. A meeting of ministers and senior
officials in December in Geneva made “good
progress” and set the stage for further talks.
An Environmental Goods Agreement (EGA) would
potentially slash duties on a broad range of goods that can
help countries tackle some of the world’s most pressing
environmental challenges. Negotiations on the EGA were
launched in July 2014.

Negotiators held seven negotiating rounds during 2016.
Ministers and senior officials from EGA participants met
in Geneva in December to work towards concluding the
negotiations. Participants held constructive talks but
they remain divided over the product coverage and other
implementing issues. The intensive discussions set the
stage for further talks, however.
Director-General Roberto Azêvedo said the Geneva
meeting “made good progress towards an agreement” and
called for further work towards a successful conclusion
of the EGA. “This is not the usual kind of trade agreement
as it is focused on protecting a common global good:
the environment. The trading system should be in a
position to make a positive and meaningful contribution
towards tackling environmental degradation. I believe
that all delegations involved in these discussions
remain committed to this, and to building on recent
achievements, such as the Paris Agreement on Climate
Change and the UN’s 2030 Sustainable Development
Agenda” (see page 83).

Ministers and senior officials representing the 46
WTO members negotiating an Environmental Goods
Agreement met at the WTO in December 2016.

Trade
Negotiations

Participants have proposed products used in a variety of
environment-benefitting functions, including: generating
clean and renewable energy; improving energy and
resource efficiency; reducing air, water and soil pollution;
managing solid and hazardous waste; noise abatement;
and monitoring environmental quality. Once the EGA
negotiations are concluded, the results will become part
of the participants’ WTO schedules of commitments.
This means all WTO members will benefit from improved
access to the markets of EGA participants.

The negotiations cover the relationship between existing
WTO rules and specific trade obligations set out in
multilateral environmental agreements (MEAs), procedures
for regular information exchange between MEA secretariats
and the relevant WTO committees, and the reduction or,
as appropriate, elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to
environmental goods and services
In Nairobi, ministers recognized the importance of WTO work
on trade and the environment, declaring: “We recognize the
role the WTO can play in contributing towards the achievement
of the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals” (see page 146).
In 2016, WTO members reiterated the importance they attach
to trade and the environment, noting recent key international
developments, such as the Paris Agreement on climate change
and Agenda 2030 on the Sustainable Development Goals.

The EGA participants are: Australia; Canada; China;
Costa Rica; the European Union (representing Austria,
Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Republic of Cyprus, Czech
Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania,
Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden and the
United Kingdom); Hong Kong, China; Iceland; Israel;
Japan; Korea; New Zealand; Norway; Singapore;
Switzerland; Liechtenstein; Chinese Taipei; Turkey; and the
United States.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environmentnegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Trade negotiations

WTO rules
The Negotiating Group on Rules continued its
work on WTO rules on anti-dumping, subsidies
and countervailing measures, and regional
trade agreements (RTAs). Many delegations
saw agreement on fisheries subsidies
as a potential outcome for the 11th WTO
Ministerial Conference in December 2017 and
a number of proposals were presented.
Fisheries subsidies dominated work in the Negotiating
Group on Rules during 2016, with Chair Wayne McCook of
Jamaica declaring that many WTO members saw an outcome
on fisheries subsidies as a “critical area for action” for the
WTO’s 11th Ministerial Conference (MC11) in Buenos Aires in
December 2017.
At the Group’s last meeting of the year in December, members
discussed three new proposals aimed at achieving an outcome
at MC11. The proposals from the European Union, the African,
Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) group of members, and six Latin
American members — Argentina, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Panama, Peru and Uruguay — all seek to achieve the target on
fishing set out in the United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), agreed in 2015. Subsequently, in the first
meeting of 2017 in January, the Least-Developed Countries
(LDC) Group presented a new proposal for multilateral
disciplines on fisheries subsidies.
SDG 14.6 calls for prohibiting certain forms of fisheries
subsidies which contribute to over‑capacity and over‑fishing,
eliminating subsidies that contribute to illegal, unreported
and unregulated (IUU) fishing, and refraining from introducing
new such subsidies, by 2020. The goal also recognizes
that appropriate and effective special and differential
(S&D) treatment for developing and least-developed
countries should be an integral part of the WTO fisheries
subsidies negotiations.

Background on WTO rules
WTO members agreed at the Doha Ministerial
Conference in 2001 to launch negotiations to clarify
and improve WTO rules on anti-dumping, subsidies
and countervailing measures, and regional trade
agreements. There was specific mention of disciplines
on fisheries subsidies. At the Hong Kong Ministerial
Conference in 2005 there was broad agreement on
strengthening those disciplines, including through
a prohibition of certain forms of fishery subsidies
that contribute to over-capacity and over-fishing.
Regarding regional trade agreements, the General
Council established a transparency mechanism
on a provisional basis in December 2006.

Ambassador
Wayne McCook
chaired the
WTO rules
negotiations
in 2016.

The proposals all seek to achieve the UN goal, ensure
effective disciplines, provide special and differential treatment
for developing and least-developed countries and secure
an outcome in Buenos Aires. Proponents called for the
negotiations to proceed on a stand-alone basis, i.e. there
should be no linkage with other issues being discussed as part
of the rules negotiations.
While there was general support for making progress
on fisheries subsidies, in line with the SDG requirement,
the Chair said that several members also raised the question
of balance in the rules negotiations, i.e. the need to ensure
that any advance on fisheries subsidies goes hand in hand
with progress on other issues within the four pillars of the rules
negotiations. Some members consider that rules issues are
linked together and that there should be no “cherry-picking”.
The Chair told the Negotiating Group that several delegations
had told him in consultations that they also see the possibility
of progress in trade remedies, which include anti-dumping and
countervailing measures. However, others had indicated that,
while their interest in this area remains, they do not consider
the time to be ripe for work on trade remedy outcomes in
Buenos Aires, he added.
Despite intensive efforts, the last Ministerial Conference in
Nairobi in December 2015 was unable to agree outcomes
in any area of the rules negotiations other than RTAs. Here,
ministers reaffirmed the need to ensure that RTAs do not
become a substitute for progress in multilateral talks and
instructed the Committee on Regional Trade Agreements to
discuss the systemic implications of RTAs for the multilateral
trading system and their relationship with WTO rules
(see page 88). The Ministerial Conference also agreed that

SDG 14.6 calls for prohibiting
certain forms of fisheries subsidies.

WTO rules
www.wto.org/rulesnegs

42

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

WTO members will work towards making the transparency
mechanism for RTAs, which is currently provisional, into a
permanent mechanism.
During the year, work continued in the Technical Group,
a forum in which delegations exchange information about their
anti-dumping practices. The Technical Group met in April
and October 2016 and exchanged information about WTO
members’ practices in regard to various aspects of dumping
margin calculations, in particular product matching, adjustments,
and alternative methods for determining normal value.

Ambassador
Stephen Ndung’u
Karau chaired the
DSU negotiations
from July 2016.

Ambassador Stephen Ndung’u Karau of Kenya
took over in July 2016 as Chair of the Dispute
Settlement Understanding (DSU) special
session. He held a series of informal meetings
and consultations on issues identified in a
2015 report by his predecessor, Ambassador
Ronald Saborío Soto (Costa Rica).
In July, the Chair reported to the special session that WTO
members recognized the value of work done in the DSU
negotiations. Despite differences of views about achievable
outcomes, all members confirmed their willingness to continue
to engage actively in the negotiations on improving and
clarifying rules and procedures governing the settlement of
WTO disputes.
In December 2015, the then Chair of the DSU negotiations
reported that convergence among WTO members had been
achieved in certain areas and significant progress made in
others. Although it had not been possible to reach specific
agreements in time for the December 2015 Ministerial
Conference in Nairobi, participants recognized the systemic

importance of the negotiations and their potential to lead
to practical and meaningful outcomes for the benefit of all
members, the Chair added.
The 12 issues under discussion include third-party rights,
panel composition, remand (i.e. referral of cases by the
Appellate Body to panels for further action), mutually agreed
solutions (including the suspension of appellate proceedings
on the joint request of parties), strictly confidential information,
sequencing and post-retaliation (i.e. the procedure to be
followed when the parties disagree whether compliance with
dispute settlement rulings has been achieved, either before
retaliation has been granted – sequencing – or afterwards
– post-retaliation).
Other issues under discussion include transparency (e.g.
opening hearings to the public) and amicus curiae briefs
(when someone not party to a case provides an unsolicited
brief), timeframes for consultations, specific developing
country concerns (including special and differential treatment
for least-developed countries), flexibility and member control
(involving issues such as whether to allow the parties to jointly
seek deletion of parts of a panel or Appellate Body report),
and ways to ensure prompt and effective compliance with
WTO rulings by WTO members found to have breached them.

Background on the Dispute
Settlement Understanding
In November 2001, at the Doha Ministerial
Conference, WTO members agreed to negotiate
to improve and clarify the DSU – the rules and
procedures governing the settlement of WTO
disputes. These negotiations, which take place in
special sessions of the Dispute Settlement Body,
are part of the Doha Development Agenda but are
not formally part of the “single undertaking”.

Dispute Settlement Understanding
www.wto.org/disputenegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

43

Trade
Negotiations

Dispute Settlement
Understanding

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
	 The WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement entered into
force in February 2017, the first multilateral trade deal
concluded in the 21-year history of the WTO.
	 An amendment to the WTO’s intellectual property agreement
entered into force in January 2017, making it easier for
developing countries to access affordable medicines.
	 The WTO’s latest trade monitoring report showed a slight decrease in the
number of trade-restrictive measures introduced by WTO members.

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

46

Trade in goods

49

Market access

51

Rules of origin

64

Agriculture52

Import licensing

66

Balance of payments

Safeguards67

55

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures 55

Trade-related investment measures

68

Technical barriers to trade

Information Technology Agreement

69

Subsidies and countervailing measures61

State trading enterprises

70

Anti-dumping practices

62

Trade in civil aircraft

71

Customs valuation

64

58

Trade facilitation

72

Trade in services

75

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights
(TRIPS)78
Trade and environment

83

Trade and transfer of technology

87

Regional trade agreements

88

Trade Policy Reviews

92

Trade Policy Reviews in 2016

94

Trade monitoring reports

96

Trade, debt and finance

99

Government Procurement Agreement

Background on outreach
The
WTO maintains
regular dialogue
Background
on implementation
with
organizations,
and non‑governmental
monitoring

parliamentarians,
other and
international
Various WTO councils
committees
organizations,
the
media
the general
seek to ensure that WTOand
agreements
are
public properly
to enhance
cooperation
being
implemented.
Alland
WTO
raise
awareness
of periodic
trade issues.
members
undergo
scrutiny of
their trade policies and practices.

101

Implementation
and monitoring

General Council

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

General Council
In 2016, the WTO General Council oversaw the implementation of decisions taken at
the Bali and Nairobi ministerial conferences as well as progress in trade negotiations
work, based on reports of the Director-General. It also reviewed progress in the work
programme on electronic commerce. In December, the General Council approved
the establishment of two new working parties for the accessions of Somalia and
Timor-Leste. The General Council decided that the 11th Ministerial Conference
(MC11) will be held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in December 2017.

Bali and Nairobi decisions

WTO’s 11th Ministerial Conference

General Council Chair Harald Neple (Norway) provided
regular reports on implementation of the Bali and Nairobi
ministerial decisions in WTO regular councils and committees.
This included the so-called “regular work” – TRIPS
non‑violation and situation complaints (see page 78), the work
programme on e-commerce (see below), small economies
(see page 126), Aid for Trade (see page 127) and trade
and transfer of technology (see page 87) – and ministerial
decisions in the Bali and Nairobi packages.

In 2016, the General Council Chair held consultations
on the date and venue of the 11th Ministerial Conference
(MC11). Offers to host the conference were received from
the governments of Argentina and Uruguay. Subsequently,
Uruguay withdrew its offer in favour of Argentina. Following
the consultations, the General Council agreed that MC11 will
be held in Buenos Aires in December 2017. Argentina will be
the first South American country to host the biennial event. The
last ministerial conference took place in Nairobi in December
2015.

The Chair updated the Council on the work taking place in
the Committee on Agriculture, for example, concerning the
implementation of the Nairobi decision on export competition
(see page 35), and on development and least-developed
country (LDC) issues. These issues include the monitoring
mechanism (see page 122), duty-free quota-free market
access for LDCs (see page 122), preferential rules of origin
for LDCs (see page 65) and the application of the LDCs’
services waiver. He also provided regular reports on the status
of ratifications of the Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA), which
entered into force in February 2017 (see page 73).
The Director-General, in his role as Chair of the Trade
Negotiations Committee, reported regularly to the General
Council on progress in the trade negotiations (see page 32)
and in carrying out the instructions given by ministers in
Nairobi regarding the negotiations.

Background on the General Council
The General Council is entrusted with carrying out the
functions of the WTO and taking actions necessary
to this effect between ministerial conferences in
addition to carrying out the specific tasks assigned
to it by the agreement establishing the WTO.

Working parties on the accessions
of Somalia and Timor-Leste
In December, the General Council agreed to establish
working parties to negotiate membership terms for the
Federal Republic of Somalia and the Democratic Republic of
Timor‑Leste (see page 25‑6). In the meantime, it agreed to
welcome them as observers to the WTO.
Other accession matters considered by the General Council
in 2016 included the appointment of Ambassador Kemal
Madenog l̆ u (Turkey), Ambassador Gustavo Miguel Vanerio
Balbela (Uruguay) and Mr Ryosuke Kuwana (Japan) to
chair the working parties of Belarus, Algeria and Sudan,
respectively, as well as the Director‑General’s Annual Report
on Accessions.

Work Programme on Electronic Commerce
In July and December, in line with the Nairobi Decision on
E‑commerce, the General Council conducted a periodic
review to assess progress in e‑commerce, which involves the
production, distribution, marketing, sale or delivery of goods
and services by electronic means.

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

46

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Ambassador Harald Neple was
elected as Chair of the General
Council in February 2016.

At the July meeting, Panama’s Ambassador, Alfredo Suescum
(friend of the GC Chair on electronic commerce), reported
on consultations held in June as well as on the 11th Dedicated
Discussion on E-commerce held earlier in July. He noted
positions remained divergent, including on whether to make
the current moratorium on customs duties on transmission
of electronic data permanent. However, there was a greater
interest among members about discussing e-commerce
further. This increased interest resulted in the circulation
of submissions from members covering a wide range of
e-commerce-related issues.
The Chair reported in December on further e-commerce
consultations with members. Many delegations had stressed
the need to continue work on e-commerce in line with the
1998 mandate of examining and exploring its trade-related
aspects, he said. While some delegations are ready to pursue
discussions further, including possible rule-making, some felt
that e-commerce is being given a higher priority than Doha
Round issues of interest to them. Many delegations recognized
the potential benefits of e-commerce but pointed to structural
and infrastructural challenges that need to be addressed first.
During the General Council discussion, some members said
they hoped to see some progress by MC11. Suggestions
were made to look at areas where WTO rules could
make a difference as well as to focus on easier issues
where consensus could be reached – issues that are
doable and realistic. Others stressed the need to address
development challenges and to maintain a member-driven and
bottom‑up process.

Appointment of officers to WTO bodies
At the May meeting, some members asked the General
Council Chair to hold consultations on whether the guidelines
for appointing officers to WTO bodies need clarifying. These
consultations took place in the second half of the year. At the
December meeting, the General Council heard the report by
the Chair who stressed the importance of starting the selection
process early to allow sufficient time for group coordinators to
conduct consultations with their respective constituencies.

Waivers under Article IX of the
WTO Agreement
In 2016, the General Council considered and granted a
number of requests for waivers from obligations under the
WTO Agreement, as set out in Table 1. It also reviewed the
following multi-year waivers:
•	 Canada – CARIBCAN, granted on 28 July 2015 until
31 December 2023
•	 Preferential treatment for LDCs, granted on 27 May 2009
until 30 June 2019
•	 United States – Former Territory of the Pacific Islands,
granted on 27 July 2007 until 31 December 2016
•	 United States – Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act,
granted on 5 May 2015 until 31 December 2019
•	 Philippines – Special treatment for rice, granted on 24 July
2014 until 30 June 2017
•	 Preferential treatment to services and service
suppliers of LDCs, granted on 17 December 2011 until
31 December 2030
•	 Kimberley process certification scheme for rough diamonds,
granted on 12 December 2012 until 31 December 2018
•	 European Union – Application of autonomous preferential
treatment to the West Balkans, granted on 30 November
2011 until 31 December 2016

General Council
www.wto.org/gc
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

47

Implementation
and monitoring

The Work Programme on Electronic Commerce is carried
out under the auspices of the General Council, with the
Council for Trade in Services, the Council for Trade in Goods,
the Council for Trade-related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights (TRIPS) and the Committee on Trade and Development
examining and reporting to the General Council on various
aspects of electronic commerce.

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
•	 Cuba – Article XV:6 of GATT 1994, extension of waiver,
granted on 14 February 2012 until 31 December 2016

to the WTO Pension Plan, including consultations regarding
the appointment of members, alternates and the chair of the
Pension Plan Management Board.

Other issues

As part of its oversight function, the General Council
conducted a year-end review of WTO activities, based on the
annual reports of its subsidiary bodies.

The General Council heard a number of trade and
implementation concerns. Other matters considered by
the Council in 2016 included regular reports on the work
programme on small economies, the development assistance
aspects of cotton and the new biennial work programme on
Aid for Trade, with the theme “promoting connectivity”.
The General Council also regularly considered the reports of
the WTO Budget Committee and dealt with matters related

In addition, the General Council considered a report from
the Joint Advisory Group of the International Trade Centre
(ITC), which is the policy-making body of the ITC, the trade
promotion agency for developing countries jointly sponsored
by the WTO and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD).

Table 1: Waivers under Article IX (decision making) of the WTO Agreement
In 2016, the General Council granted the following waivers from obligations under WTO agreements.
Member(s)

Waiver

Argentina, China and the European Union

Argentina; Brazil; China; Dominican Republic; European
Union; Israel; Malaysia; Mexico; New Zealand; Philippines;
Switzerland; and Thailand

Decision of

Expiry

Decision

Introduction of Harmonized System
2002 changes to WTO schedules of 7 December 2016
tariff concessions

31 December 2017

WT/L/996

Introduction of Harmonized System
2007 changes to WTO schedules of 7 December 2016
tariff concessions

31 December 2017

WT/L/997

Argentina; Australia; Brazil; Canada; China; Colombia;
Costa Rica; Dominican Republic; El Salvador; European
Union; Guatemala; Honduras; Hong Kong, China; India;
Introduction of Harmonized System
Israel; Korea, Republic of; Macao, China; Malaysia; Mexico;
2012 changes into WTO schedules
New Zealand; Norway; Pakistan; Philippines; Russian
of tariff concessions
Federation; Singapore; Switzerland; Separate Customs
Territory of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu; Thailand;
and United States

7 December 2016

31 December 2017

WT/L/998

Argentina; Brazil; Canada; China; Colombia; Costa Rica;
El Salvador; European Union; Hong Kong, China; Korea,
Republic of; New Zealand; Norway; Paraguay; Russian
Federation; Switzerland; Separate Customs Territory of
Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu; United States; and
Uruguay

Introduction of Harmonized System
2017 changes to WTO schedules of
tariff concessions

7 December 2016

31 December 2017

WT/L/999

United States

Former Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands

7 December 2016

31 December 2026

WT/L/1000

United States

Trade Preferences granted to Nepal

7 December 2016

31 December 2025

WT/L/1001

European Union

Application of autonomous
preferential treatment to the Western 7 December 2016
Balkans

31 December 2021

WT/L/1002

Cuba

Article XV:6 – Extension of waiver

31 December 2021

WT/L/1003

7 December 2016

General Council
www.wto.org/gc

48

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

Trade in goods
In 2016, the Council for Trade in Goods addressed many trade concerns, including
ten new ones, reflecting its growing role as a forum for airing concerns about
measures, policies and practices considered potentially discriminatory or trade
restricting. China and Pakistan presented a proposal for advancing the WTO work
programme on e-commerce. The Council also considered several waiver requests.

Ukraine raised the issue of Russian measures affecting
international transit of cargo by road and rail, particularly from
Ukraine. Ukraine said the measures were neither transparent
nor justified and were applied in a non-uniform and onerous
way. The restrictions, enacted on 1 January 2016, ban all
international transit of cargo by road and rail transport from
Ukraine to Kazakhstan through Russian territory. Goods
must cross Belarus, adding up to 900 km to the distance
and adding 30 per cent in transit costs, Ukraine said. It said
the issue was not just a Ukrainian concern and deserved the
attention of all WTO members.
The European Union, Turkey, Canada, Australia, Japan,
the United States and Switzerland joined Ukraine in voicing
concerns about the Russian measures. Turkey said that since
the beginning of 2016 Russia had banned the import of
20 categories of products of Turkish origin.
For its part, Russia raised concerns about some aspects of the
United States’ monitoring programme for preventing illegal,
unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing (see page 84). Russia
said that the US measures not only sought information already
contained in customs declarations, bills of lading and commercial
instruments but also required importers to keep some additional

and not clearly specified information during five years. The United
States said that its monitoring programme is open to comments
and the concerns will be reported to its capital.
The European Union, Japan and the United States expressed
concerns about India’s minimum import prices (MIP) for almost
173 iron and steel products. Imports are not allowed when
the price is below the MIP. They said MIPs are inconsistent
with GATT (General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs) Article
XI on quantitative restrictions. Japan and the European Union
also questioned India’s safeguard measure for hot flat-rolled
products. India also heard concerns about increased customs
duties on 96 tariff lines for capital goods, including the
information and communications technology (ICT) sector.
Complaints were also raised about India’s “compulsory
registration order” for certain electronic products, which
requires foreign products be re-tested in an Indian laboratory
to demonstrate their compliance with Indian standards even
though these norms are identical to existing international
standards. Chile, New Zealand, China and others welcomed
India’s decision to reopen several ports that were closed to
apple imports but asked India to provide further explanation
about the treatment applied to imports in the different
ports. India replied that the MIP for steel had not yet been
implemented, that safeguards are always controversial and that
the port restrictions have been lifted.

Background on trade in goods
The Council for Trade in Goods is responsible for
the workings of all WTO agreements on trade in
goods. It consists of the full WTO membership and
reports to the WTO General Council. The Goods
Council has 11 subsidiary committees dealing
with specific subjects, such as agriculture, market
access, subsidies, technical barriers to trade, sanitary
and phytosanitary measures, import licensing,
and customs valuation. These committees also
comprise all WTO members. Working parties on state
trading enterprises and the Information Technology
Agreement (ITA) also report to the Goods Council.

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

49

Implementation
and monitoring

Trade concerns were raised by WTO members at all three
meetings of the Goods Council in 2016.

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
Russia, supported by China, raised a concern already
brought before the Committee on Anti-Dumping regarding
the European Union’s anti-dumping practices and the
methodology it uses in its investigations against cold-rolled flat
steel products from Russia and China, particularly the rejection
by EU authorities of data submitted by Russian exporters.
Russia also questioned the way the EU investigating authority
determines the export price for the targeted goods, which
it considered to be artificially low. In response, the European
Union said its anti-dumping investigations meet high quality
standards and that it has already provided responses to these
concerns. Its methodology complies with WTO rules, it added.
New Zealand raised concerns about Sri Lankan tariffs on
skimmed milk and milk powder that exceeded the ad valorem
bound duty of 20 per cent, an issue raised during the last
three years at the Committee on Agriculture. Sri Lanka
acknowledged the breach and indicated that it would address
the issue by mid-2016.
New Zealand, backed by Australia, Chile, the European Union,
Mexico and the United States, also raised concerns about
various measures adopted by Canadian provincial authorities,
particularly regulations implemented by British Columbia
(BC) on wine. They said the British Columbian regulations
discriminate against imported wine by allowing only local wine
to be sold on grocery store shelves. The situation is similar for
some wines and spirits in Ontario. Canada responded that its
Government is working closely with the provinces concerned
to ensure their policies are consistent with Canada’s WTO
obligations. But the British Columbia measure has existed for
decades and was “grandfathered” through many agreements
to which Canada is a party, it added.
Japan registered concerns over China’s import tax on personal
effects (hand luggage). The tax, implemented in April 2016,
combines a customs duty, an import value added tax (VAT)
and a consumption tax, all of which already existed. But for
some products, the new combined rate appears to exceed the
aggregate amounts of the three existing duties, Japan said.
Russia said some measures taken by Croatia are adversely
affecting imports of petroleum products and biofuels from
third countries, including from Russia. The measures include
pre-approval requirements and mandatory use of certain
warehouses. These measures are not applied to imports
from EU members or to those of members of the European
Economic Area and Turkey, Russia said. The European Union
said it will analyse the issue with Croatia.
Japan voiced concerns about Turkey’s duties on imported
tyres, which it said are higher than what it had committed
to the WTO. Turkey said it is working on this issue and
assured members its policies are consistent with its
WTO commitments.
The European Union raised concerns about Russia’s
mandatory certification measures for cement, which it said
are a de facto ban on EU cement imports. It said certificates
previously approved have been cancelled. Russia responded
that the measures are justified due to a sharp decline in
the quality of cement and that it applies the measure in a

non‑discriminatory manner. It said the requirement applies
to all manufacturers and that 290 certificates have been
issued since March 2016, of which 51 correspond to
foreign companies.
The Council also considered trade concerns that had been
brought to its attention in previous years. These included:
Nigerian import restrictions; China’s measures applied to
seafood; Indonesia’s import and export restrictions; Ecuador’s
balance of payment measures; Ukraine’s determination of the
transaction value; and Pakistan’s discriminatory taxes.

Waiver requests
The Council approved four collective waiver requests,
extending the deadlines for the updating of tariff schedules
under the harmonized system changes (2002, 2007, 2012 and
2017) (see page 52). It approved two waiver requests from the
United States, extending a waiver concerning the Former Trust
Territory of the Pacific Islands and some trade preferences
granted to Nepal. It also extended a waiver concerning the
European Union’s application of autonomous preferential
treatment to the Western Balkans and approved the extension
of a waiver granted to Cuba to facilitate its compliance with
Article XV:6 of the GATT 1994, which refers to WTO members
who are not members of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The Council took note of the information provided by Jordan
regarding the establishment of a new WTO programme to
replace its current export subsidy programme for domestic
producers, in particular small and medium‑sized enterprises
(SMEs). Jordan will continue updating the Council about the
establishment of its new programme.
The Council also considered a draft decision on the procedure
for the introduction of harmonized system 2017 changes
to schedules of concessions, using the consolidated tariff
schedules (CTS) database. It agreed to forward the draft
decision to the General Council for adoption.
Regarding the EU enlargement of 2013 (Croatia), the Council
agreed to extend the deadline for the withdrawal of
concessions until 1 July 2017. On the accession of the Kyrgyz
Republic to the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU), the Council
extended until 12 February 2018 the period in which interested
members could withdraw substantially equivalent concessions.
Similarly, the Council extended until 2 January 2018 the
deadline for the withdrawal of concessions for the Republic of
Armenia, following its accession to the EAEU.

Electronic commerce
Following the Nairobi Ministerial Conference decision to
continue the existing WTO work programme on e‑commerce,
China and Pakistan proposed that discussions on e‑commerce
focus on the promotion and facilitation of cross‑border trade
in goods enabled by the Internet. Presenting the proposal
to the November Council meeting, China said that the
needs of developing countries should be reflected in any

Trade in goods
www.wto.org/goods

50

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Several members affirmed the importance of working towards
delivering outcomes at MC11. There was also support
for incorporating the needs and concerns of developing
countries in the deliberations. Some members emphasized
the importance of maintaining discussions on other aspects
of e-commerce, such as online trade in services as well as
commitments for consumer protection, data privacy and
intellectual property rights. Several delegations said there is a
need to make permanent the moratorium on customs duties on
electronic transmissions instead of continuing with the current
practice of renewing the moratorium every two years.
Several members said they were working on a “mapping”
paper identifying elements of substance and position.
To advance the e-commerce discussions, China said a seminar
on e-commerce and trade in goods should be organized
under the auspices of the Council for Trade in Goods. Several
members supported holding a joint informal meeting of the
mandated WTO bodies.

Other issues
In 2016, the Council was informed about eight free trade
agreements (FTAs) that were concluded and notified by
WTO members.
China reminded members about the expiry date of Section
15(a)(ii) of its Protocol of Accession and invited members to
change or adopt a new methodology to replace the current
surrogate or analogue method relating to anti-dumping.
Some members disagreed with China’s interpretation that the
expiration of one provision in its Protocol of Accession requires
members to abandon the use of a third-country methodology.

Market access
Members raised nine trade concerns at the two
formal meetings of the Committee on Market
Access in 2016. The Committee made further
good progress in updating members’ schedules
of commitments to reflect the latest international
tariff classification standards and adopted
procedures for the introduction of the latest
classification amendment. Disappointment was
expressed at the low number of notifications
received on quantitative restrictions.

Trade concerns
WTO members raised nine trade concerns at the two formal
meetings of the Committee on Market Access. The European
Union considered that Argentina’s newly adopted law to
promote its auto-part industry discriminates against imports
(see page 68). The European Union also considered that
Russia’s ban on exports of raw hides and skins unduly
restricts trade. The European Union, Japan, Korea and the
United States considered that India is levying duties on
telecommunication products in excess of its bound duties.
Japan considered that India’s minimum import prices on iron
and steel products discriminate against Japan’s exports and
constitute a banned quantitative restriction (see page 49).
Russia expressed concern with Croatia’s regulations on
the importation and distribution of certain oil and biodiesel
products (see page 50). Switzerland again questioned the
level of Bahrain’s import duties on cigarettes as well as the
impact of an eventual increase in duties by the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia.
Thailand expressed concern that Korea has not finished
converting non-tariff measures into tariffs (so-called
tariffication) and introducing a tariff rate quota for rice.
The United States considered that Oman’s increase in its
duties for tobacco products exceeds its bound commitment.

Background on market access
The Committee on Market Access supervises the
implementation of tariff and non-tariff commitments
not covered by any other WTO body. It also seeks
to ensure that WTO members’ schedules of
commitments are kept up to date, including changes
required to reflect amendments to the Harmonized
System (HS). This is important for ensuring that
tariffs in members’ schedules of commitments can
be compared with those applied in practice. The HS,
administered by the World Customs Organization,
allows countries to classify traded goods on a common
basis. It has been updated four times since 1996.

Market access
www.wto.org/marketaccess
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

51

Implementation
and monitoring

outcomes. Priority should be given to “easy issues”, with a
focus on realizing “pragmatic progress” at the 11th Ministerial
Conference (MC11) to be held in Buenos Aires in December
2017, China said.

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Harmonized System
The Committee continued its work to ensure that WTO
members’ schedules of commitments reflect the amendments
made by the World Customs Organization (WCO) to the
Harmonized System nomenclature, which take place every
four to five years. The amendments are typically referred
to by the year in which they enter into force. They include
HS96, HS2002, HS2007, HS2012 and HS2017. These
“transposition” exercises help guarantee that members’
schedules are up to date and that tariff obligations are
transparent, allowing applied tariffs to be compared with
members’ legal obligations at the WTO.
The HS96 and HS2002 transpositions have been concluded
for nearly all WTO members. Modest progress was made on
the HS2007 exercise in 2016, with amendments to more than
105 schedules either certified or being certified, compared
with 102 in 2015. The Committee began its work on the
HS2012 transposition by adopting a detailed methodology
identical to the one used for the HS 2007 transposition.
However, it also includes measures proposed to improve
the efficiency and quality of the work, including several
simplifications of the transposition process and a standard
procedure for verifying members’ submissions. The Committee
also agreed on the general procedures to be used for the
HS2017 transposition, which were forwarded to the General
Council for adoption.
The WTO Secretariat issued an update of its “Situation
of schedules of WTO members”, which lists all the
legal instruments relating to each member’s schedule of
commitments. For the first time, the Secretariat also prepared
a report on renegotiations under GATT Article XXVIII on the
modification of members’ schedules, with a view to enhancing
transparency and monitoring the status of such negotiations.

Databases
The WTO Secretariat reported on the Integrated Data Base
(IDB), which provides information on applied tariffs and import
data as notified by WTO members, and the Consolidated
Tariff Schedules (CTS) database, which compiles information
on the legal obligations reflected in members’ schedules of
commitments. The Secretariat also provided information on
the use of information in the databases, the status of software
development and the availability of technical assistance.
IDB data coverage has significantly improved in recent years
but important gaps remain. Presently, IDB data needs to
be complemented with data coming from other sources.
The WTO Secretariat has therefore encouraged WTO
members to notify the relevant data and to reduce the gaps.

Quantitative restrictions
During 2016, the Committee received 15 new notifications
of quantitative restrictions on imports and exports from

Afghanistan, Brazil, Canada, Cuba, Hong Kong (China), Japan,
Macao (China), Mauritius, Mexico, Nicaragua, Russia, Chinese
Taipei, Ukraine, United States and Uruguay.
The General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) requires
the general elimination of quantitative restrictions, which
include prohibitions and other restrictions on trade that do not
take the form of a tariff or a tax. However, these restrictions are
allowed in some defined circumstances. Members are required
to provide detailed information on the quantitative restrictions
they maintain, including their justification under WTO rules.
WTO members expressed disappointment over the continuing
low number of notifications and poor compliance with
the requirement.

Agriculture
The Committee on Agriculture continued to
examine how WTO members are complying with
their commitments on subsidies and market
access and discussed issues arising from this. The
number of questions posed to individual members
hit a high of 362, with an increasing number
directed to developing countries. The Committee
held its first dedicated session on export
competition since the Nairobi Ministerial
Conference barred developed countries from
using agricultural export subsidies. It reviewed a
revised paper from a group of WTO members
describing trends in domestic support.
The Committee on Agriculture reviewed 80 notifications of
agricultural trade measures by WTO members at its four
meetings in 2016, up from 58 in 2015. WTO members raised
196 questions about these individual notifications.
The review of WTO members’ progress in implementing their
commitments on subsidies and market access under the

Background on agriculture
The Agreement on Agriculture aims to reform trade and
make WTO members’ policies more market-oriented.
The rules and commitments apply to the areas of market
access, domestic support and export competition
as well as export restrictions and prohibitions.
The Committee on Agriculture meeting in regular
session oversees the implementation of the Agreement.
The Committee is also entrusted with monitoring
the follow‑up to the Marrakesh ministerial decision
regarding net food-importing developing countries,
which sets out objectives on the provision of food aid
and other assistance to the beneficiary countries.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

52

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

8.1%

Export subsidies

17.9%

Market access

74.0%

Domestic support

Agriculture Agreement is largely based on their notifications.
Members can also ask about agricultural measures that
have not been notified. Article 18.6 of the Agreement allows
members to raise any matter relevant to the implementation of
commitments at any time. In 2016, members posed 146 such
questions in the Committee, also the highest number in one
year to date. Figure 1 gives a snapshot of the proportion of
questions on notifications raised by subject area.
Figure 2 shows the annual proportion of questions on
notifications addressed to developed and developing
countries. Out of 362 questions raised in total (including
questions on individual notifications, overdue notifications,
Article 18.6 and questions raised under the “other” category),
the highest to date, 247 were directed towards developing
countries in 2016. Members posed many questions to
Brazil and China relating to their recently notified domestic
support (subsidy) measures. Brazil’s notification covered
its domestic support programme for 2013-14 while China’s
covered 2009‑10.

The issue of overdue notifications came up repeatedly in
Committee discussions in 2016. Some WTO members
renewed specific concerns about overdue notifications,
particularly on domestic support and export subsidies. These
concerns included EU imports under tariff quotas, domestic
support policies of China and Thailand and Turkey’s domestic
support and export subsidy policies. Other issues raised in the
Committee included Ukraine’s concerns that Russia’s
restrictions on the transit of agricultural goods from Ukraine to
Kazakhstan through Russia by truck and railway were
effectively a ban on Ukraine’s goods (see page 49), questions
about India’s export subsidies on onions, Greece’s tax on
coffee and Canada’s wine sales policy (see page 50).
The information provided in notifications is essential to many
other monitoring activities of the Committee, including WTO
members’ inputs to Committee discussions and the review of
trends in agricultural trade. In 2016, the Committee discussed
trends in notified domestic support described in a revised
paper submitted by the Cairns Group of agricultural exporting
nations, which compiled the latest data notified to the
Committee by the top ten agricultural trading nations.
WTO members noted the important role that domestic support
plays in attaining food security and livelihood objectives in
developing countries and expressed sustained concerns
about poor compliance with domestic support notification
commitments. A total of 30 members have never submitted a
domestic support notification.
The Committee also continued to review the growth of
world agricultural trade in the context of export subsidy
commitments. A background note by the WTO Secretariat
showed how world agricultural trade has evolved in several
products or product categories considered potentially more
prone to export subsidies. Discussions benefited from
additional information provided by some WTO members that
extended the analysis. Many members noted that the data
depended on notifications and urged timely notification to
strengthen the review of trends in this area.
Figure 2: Questions on notifications addressed to
developing countries, 2005-2016

More than half of the questions about individual notifications
raised over the last 21 years (1995-2016) have focused on
domestic support. In 2016, questions on domestic support
programmes continued to dominate, although the percentage
fell to 74 per cent from 87.5 per cent in 2015. Questions on
market access nearly tripled in percentage terms to 17.9 per
cent. A total of 63 implementation-related issues were raised
– 51 of them for the first time – by 15 WTO members in 2016.
The remaining issues had been discussed at least once in
previous years.

2005

38

2006

35

While developing countries continued to be less active than
developed countries in posing questions, their participation in
the review process within the Committee has increased over
time. In 2016, developing countries asked 24 questions under
Article 18.6, which is more than in any previous year.

2014

2007
2008

89

51

112

77
69

17

2009

57

40

38

2010

164

95

135

97
105

179

74

2011

201

2012
2013

52

206

233
57
247

0

50

100

324

91

219

2016

309

82

154

2015

319

118

227

150

276
362

115

200

250

300

350

400

Developing countries
Developed countries

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

53

Implementation
and monitoring

Figure 1: Questions on notifications raised in the
Committee on Agriculture in 2016, by subject area

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

80
The Committee on
Agriculture reviewed
80 notifications of
agricultural trade measures
by WTO members, up
from 58 in 2015.

Export competition
In June, the Committee held its first dedicated discussion
on export competition since ministers decided in Nairobi
in December 2015 to scrap farm export subsidies in all
developed countries. Developing countries have longer
timeframes. The discussions aim to enhance transparency and
improve monitoring of export competition. Export competition
covers export subsidies, export credits, export credit
guarantees or insurance programmes, international food aid
and agricultural exporting state trading enterprises.
The discussions were based on a WTO Secretariat
background document, which compiled information provided
by WTO members on their export competition policies. During
the meeting, members exchanged questions and answers
on specific measures in relation to the implementation of the
Nairobi decision. The Cairns Group submitted a paper which
drew some key conclusions from the analysis. The Group
noted that the use of export subsidies has decreased
dramatically over the past two decades. Several of the
16 WTO members with schedules of commitments permitting
them to subsidize their farm exports confirmed their intention to
formally modify their schedules.

Enhancing transparency and the
review process
The Secretariat held an information session on enhancing
transparency in the Committee’s work. The session included
a presentation on online sources of information useful for the
work of the Committee, with an emphasis on the Agriculture
Information Management System (AG IMS). Using the
system, WTO members can analyse notified information
and submit questions or responses. The session also
provided a preview of a new system for online submission of
agriculture notifications.
WTO members also shared experiences with respect to the
preparation and submission of notifications and the reviews
of implementation under the Agreement on Agriculture.
Lack of awareness and technical knowledge were two of
the reasons why only a small proportion of members fully
comply with their transparency obligations, some members
felt. Members suggested various ideas for strengthening
the work of the Committee, including targeting the needs of
members, particularly least-developed countries, through
tailored technical assistance activities, including notification
workshops to address gaps.

Notification workshop
Given the complexity of agriculture notifications, training and
technical assistance for government officials involved in these
notifications are critical for enhancing the monitoring function
of the Committee. The WTO Secretariat delivered a workshop
on agriculture notifications in July 2016 to facilitate the
preparation and review of agriculture notifications.

Other ministerial outcomes
The Committee discussed follow-up to other ministerial
decisions, specifically the Bali Ministerial Decision on Tariff
Rate Quota Administration and the Bali Decision on Public
Stockholding for Food Security Purposes. Members provided
no new information on the monitoring foreseen under the
two decisions.
Under tariff rate quotas (TRQs), duties inside a quota are
lower, often significantly lower, than those levied outside the
quota. Ministers declared that WTO members should notify the
Committee of the extent to which their TRQs are being filled.
Unused quotas mean exporters are missing out on potential
sales. Similarly, on the issue of public stockholding for food
security (see page 35), members are supposed to notify the
Committee in certain cases. For example, members should
tell the Committee if they are exceeding or close to exceeding
agreed limits on domestic support.

Agriculture
www.wto.org/agriculture

54

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Balance of payments
In 2016, the Committee on Balance-of-Payments
Restrictions continued its consultations with
Ecuador to review the import surcharges
the country had adopted for balance-ofpayments purposes. Ecuador had been
due to lift the measure in June 2016, but it
extended the end date until June 2017.
In March 2015, Ecuador introduced a temporary tariff
surcharge for balance-of-payments purposes for a period of
up to 15 months in view of the “highly unfavourable economic
climate”, including a sharp fall in the price of oil – one of its
main exports. It was applied to 38 per cent of Ecuador’s tariff
lines at rates ranging from 5 per cent on “non-essential” capital
and primary capital goods to 45 per cent on final consumer
goods, with intermediary rates of 15 per cent and 25 per cent.
The surcharge is applicable to all of Ecuador’s trading
partners, except for Bolivia and Paraguay. Ecuador excluded
these two WTO members because, within the Latin American
Integration Association, they are regarded as countries of
“lesser relative economic development”. In October 2015,
Ecuador presented a timetable for the gradual elimination of
the measure.
Ecuador lowered the 45 per cent rate to 40 per cent from
January 2016. Following the earthquake of April 2016, Ecuador
notified the Committee that it would partially implement
the timetable for the progressive reduction of the measure
by removing the 5 per cent rate but that it would defer the
final phase-out of the whole measure for an additional year.
In October 2016, Ecuador notified the WTO that it was

lowering its top surcharge rate from 40 per cent to 35 per cent
and the 25 per cent rate to 15 per cent.
The Committee held consultations with Ecuador in February,
June and November 2016. Members welcomed Ecuador’s
efforts to lower its import surcharge rates and to reduce the
number of tariff lines affected. However, they have been unable
to reach consensus on whether the measure is in line with
WTO rules or whether it is the most appropriate measure
to deal with Ecuador’s balance-of-payments problems.
The Committee is scheduled to continue its consultations with
Ecuador in 2017.

Sanitary and
phytosanitary measures
The Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary
(SPS) Measures considered a wide range of
specific trade concerns in 2016, ranging from
diseases such as avian influenza and African
swine fever to plant pests and novel foods.
Of the 416 trade concerns raised since 1995,
WTO members have reported solutions for
148 of these issues. Pilot versions of a new
notification submission system and a new
information management system were tested
by a group of members as part of an ongoing
project to modernize SPS online systems.

Implementation
and monitoring

The workshop provided training to 31 capital-based officials
involved in preparing notifications. It included practical
exercises related to the review process of the Committee and
hands-on training on using the AG IMS.

Specific trade concerns
The Committee considered a wide range of specific trade
concerns at each of its three meetings in 2016. Thirteen new
concerns were raised and other previously raised concerns
were discussed again. The measures discussed ranged from
diseases such as avian influenza and African swine fever to
plant pests, radionuclides, endocrine disruptors, novel foods,
biotech and matters concerning approval processes.
New trade concerns included: Namibia’s concerns over South
Africa’s revised veterinary health certificates for cattle, sheep

Background on balance of payments
The Committee on Balance-of-Payments Restrictions
is responsible for the review of all import restrictions
applied by WTO members for balance-ofpayments purposes. Under WTO rules, measures
can be taken to safeguard a member’s external
financial position and (in the case of developing
countries) to ensure a level of reserves adequate
for the implementation of programmes of economic
development. When adopting balance-of-payments
measures, members must give preference to
those with the least disruptive effect on trade.

Balance of payments
www.wto.org/balanceofpayments

Background on sanitary and
phytosanitary measures
The Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and
Phytosanitary (SPS) Measures establishes the rights
and obligations of WTO members regarding measures
taken to ensure food safety, protect human health from
plant or animal-spread diseases, protect plant and
animal health from pests and diseases, or prevent other
damage from pests. Governments must ensure that
their SPS measures are based on scientific principles.

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

416

and goats; Israel’s concerns over Costa Rica’s regulation on
pesticides and related substances; Brazil’s concerns over EU
restrictions on exports of pork from the state of Santa Catarina;
EU concern relating to China’s import restrictions due to
Schmallenberg Virus and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza;
and Russia’s import restrictions on certain animal products
from Germany.
Two trade concerns were reported to have been resolved.
One related to Mexico’s measures on imports of hibiscus
flowers and the other to China’s import conditions related to
phthalates (chemicals used in plastics) in spirits and wine.
Of the 416 trade concerns raised since 1995, WTO members
have reported solutions for 148. A partial solution has been
reported for another 32, meaning that not all those raising the
concern accepted the solution or that a solution was found
for only some of the products at issue. Altogether, about
43 per cent of the specific trade concerns raised in the SPS
Committee since 1995 have been either completely or partially
resolved. For the remaining 57 per cent, WTO members have
not reported any solution.

Notifications by developing countries
As Figure 3 shows, the total number of all SPS notifications
has grown steadily over the years, helping to improve
the transparency of WTO members’ activities. In 2016,
1,389 notifications were submitted. Of these, 935 were
regular notifications (down from 1,166 in 2015), and 97 were
emergency notifications (down from 114 in 2015).
Figure 3: Number of SPS notifications per year, 2000-16
2000

349

2001
2002

144

626

2004
2005

297

598

2006

812
767

2008

788

2009

101 1,155

786

2013

859
1,057

2015

1,057
1,166

2016

935

0

500

1 ,194

2007
2008

76 1,016

36%

366
79

1,410

83

107 1,388

2011
2012

1,297

85

353

465

58%
68%
65%
62%
56%

2013
111 1,633

401

1,000

50%

2010

1,217

353

357

48%
47%

2009

345

352

2014

35%

2006

106 1,265

94

371

915

2012

47%

2005

982

2011

36%

2004

855
242

272

26%

2003

921

333

668

2010

Figure 4: Share of SPS notifications submitted by
developing countries, 2000-16

2002

856

121

186 71

2007

In 2016, developing countries accounted for 62 per cent of
all SPS notifications (see Figure 4). Since 2008, developing
countries have submitted more than 50 per cent of all
notifications of new or changed food safety, animal or plant
health regulations with an effect on international trade.
Developing countries submitted 862 of the 1,389 notifications
circulated in 2016. Three developing countries submitted
notifications for the first time – Afghanistan, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Kazakhstan.

2001

810

97

161 69

503

Notifications inform trading partners of coming changes in the
importing member’s requirements and – unless there is an
urgent health protection issue – provide a period during which
partners can comment before they enter into force. When there
is an urgent health problem, members submit an emergency
notification immediately upon the regulation’s entry into force,
although they should still receive and consider comments from
trading partners. When there are changes to a regulation after
it has been notified, or when a member wants to inform trading
partners of a regulation’s dates of adoption or entry into force,
they can submit an addendum.

2000
777

223

144 189

524

2003

468

6455

410

The Committee on Sanitary
and Phytosanitary Measures
has considered 416 specific
trade concerns since 1995.

111
114

2014

1,681

63%

2015

97 1,389

1,500

60%

70%

2016
2,000

62%

0

10

20

30

40

50

60

70

80

Regular notification
Addenda/corrigenda
Emergency notification

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps

56

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Figure 5: Number of SPS notifications by region
350
322

In October 2015, the then Chair, Felipe Hees (Brazil),
presented a package on SPS-related private standards in an
effort to break the deadlock in the Committee. The package
contains a draft working definition of the term “SPS-related
private standard”, recommendations for inclusion in the report
of the fourth review and three future actions for the Committee
on private standards.

88
52
50

Middle East

119

Asia

408

0

100

200

300

400

500

Figure 5 shows a regional breakdown of SPS notifications,
illustrating the very high numbers of notifications submitted
by WTO members in the Americas and Asia. In 2016, three
regions increased the number of notifications submitted
as compared with 2015: Europe, 88 (slightly up from
82), the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS),
52 (up from 42) and the Middle East, 119 (up from 94).

Implementation of transparency obligations
The Committee continued to discuss possible improvements
to WTO members’ transparency obligations, including a joint
proposal by Chile and the European Union. The proposal
suggests creating a platform to post unofficial translations
of notified regulations on the WTO website and holding an
informal discussion in 2017 on how members decide which
regulations to notify as trade-facilitating measures. It also
suggests setting up a webpage with links to sites where
members post final SPS regulations. The Committee agreed to
hold a session on notification of trade-facilitating measures in
March 2017.
The ongoing project to modernize existing SPS online systems
moved forward with the launch of phase II in September 2016.
A pilot group of volunteering members tested both the SPS
information management system (IMS) and the notification
submission system (NSS) to test their interoperability, as well
as the functioning of the new SPS IMS.
In November 2016, a new online alert system (ePing) was
introduced to help government agencies and small and
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) keep track of the latest
information on regulatory requirements for international
trade. It was launched jointly by the WTO, the United
Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs and
the International Trade Centre (ITC) at a special meeting
of the Technical Barriers to Trade Committee at the WTO
(see page 60).

Private standards
The SPS Committee remained at an impasse regarding the
fourth review of the implementation of the SPS Agreement,
started in 2014, as a recommendation for the Committee’s

The hope was that the package would allow for trade-offs
and make it easier to find a solution to this issue. Several
consultations with WTO members took place in 2016 but the
Committee did not make any further progress on the text on
recommendations for private standards. The Committee was
also split on a new proposal from China to develop guidelines
on private standards. Private standards remain a growing
concern among developing countries, many of which urged
continued efforts to find a compromise.

International harmonization of standards
Four new issues were raised under the Committee’s procedure
to monitor the process of international harmonization
of standards. These included two issues raised by the
United States: BSE restrictions not consistent with the
World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) standard;
and phytosanitary certificate requirements for processed
food products.
The other two issues concerned measures on bovine
semen and reproductive material more restrictive than the
OIE standard, raised by Argentina, and the application of
International Standards for Phytosanitary Measures (ISPM) 13
on notifications of non-compliance, raised by Senegal.
The SPS Agreement encourages WTO members to bring to
the attention of the SPS Committee any international standards
whose use or non-use is creating trade problems, or where
there is a lack of an international standard whose existence
could facilitate trade.

Workshop on pesticides
The SPS Committee held a workshop on pesticide maximum
residue levels (MRLs) in October 2016. Close to 180
participants attended the workshop, including Geneva- and
capital-based delegates and regulators as well as participants
from intergovernmental organizations and speakers from the
private sector.
Complying with different MRLs of pesticides in various export
markets can be a costly obstacle to trade, especially for
small enterprises and for exporters in developing countries,
participants heard. Participants also discussed difficulties
in establishing MRLs for so-called “minor use crops” (crops
for which pesticide manufacturers do not find it commercially

Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
www.wto.org/sps
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

57

Implementation
and monitoring

North America
South America, Central
America and the Caribbean
Europe
Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS)
Africa

future work on private standards persists as a point of
contention. Although several members worked together to find
a solution, they could not bridge differences.

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
interesting to produce the data packages required for a risk
assessment that would allow the establishment of an MRL)
and the impact of default MRLs.

2,324

Where pesticides have not been registered, MRLs are often
set at levels where even very low amounts found in traded
products can lead to trade interruptions. The workshop
sparked proposals for further work, including on increased
transparency and harmonization and on how to ensure the best
use of the limited resources available for MRL development
and reduce duplication of work.

WTO members submitted
a record 2,324 notifications
of technical barriers
to trade in 2016.

Technical barriers to trade
In 2016, WTO members embarked on a three‑year
work programme for the Technical Barriers to
Trade (TBT) Committee. One major pillar of this
programme, agreed in 2015, is sector-specific
discussions on regulatory cooperation. The
first two sessions covered energy efficiency
and food labelling. Members raised the
500th specific trade concern, a milestone for this
key element of Committee work. The launch
of ePing, a global trade alert system, boosted
transparency of product regulations. Members
submitted a record 2,324 notifications in 2016.

Thematic sessions on
regulatory cooperation
As part of its current work programme, the TBT Committee
is seeking to reinforce regulatory cooperation between
WTO members by scheduling dedicated thematic sessions
on a sectoral basis. In contrast to specific trade concerns
(see below), which have the potential to turn into disputes,
regulatory cooperation aims to avoid the development of
such problems.
A first session dealt with energy efficiency, underscoring the
importance of aligning standards and regulations to save
energy and fight climate change. These standards — covering
products such as household appliances, TVs and cars — set

Background on technical barriers to trade
The Technical Barriers to Trade (TBT) Agreement
aims to ensure that regulations, standards, testing and
certification procedures followed by WTO members do
not create unnecessary obstacles to trade. The number
of regulations adopted by members has continued to
grow in response to consumers’ demands for safe,
high-quality products, the protection of health and the
need to curb pollution and environmental degradation.

out minimum energy performance standards, provide ways of
testing for energy efficiency performance and regulate energy
management systems. Members emphasized the need to
harmonize national requirements with international standards
whenever possible, as companies may find it difficult to export
if required to comply with multiple standards to achieve an
“energy efficient” label.
In a second session, WTO members addressed food and
nutrition labelling in which one key challenge for members is to
increase coherence between parallel work being done in the
Codex Alimentarius (Food Code) of the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization.
The Committee also held five other thematic sessions
during the year on cross-cutting topics: good regulatory
practice (including the use of regulatory impact assessment),
conformity assessment procedures, standards, transparency
and technical assistance.

Specific trade concerns
WTO members raised 82 specific trade concerns (STCs),
including the 500th concern to be raised since 1995, which
highlighted the significance of this pillar in the Committee’s
work (see Figure 6). Acknowledging the milestone,
Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo said: “It sounds technical
but actually this is about dealing with all sorts of real-life issues
that we all care about — from the use of chemicals in toys to
the sugar, salt and fat content of our food.”
Measures affecting a wide range of products were discussed,
including the consumption of alcohol, food labelling, toy safety,
medical devices, pharmaceutical products and, increasingly,
information technology (IT) products. The latter include: the
management and disposal of electronic waste (e-waste),
regulations to ensure security in ICT, the use of 4G/LTE
technologies in smartphones, and other regulations, such as
conformity assessment procedures for electronics and IT
goods. E-waste refers to discarded electronic appliances,
such as mobile phones and computers.
WTO members use the Committee to raise concerns about
measures they believe are not consistent with the TBT
Agreement. These can be standards, testing and certification
procedures, regulations or labelling requirements imposed by
the importing country.

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

58

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Only 31 of the concerns raised were new, substantially fewer
than the 47 in 2014 and 42 in 2013.
Developing countries raised ten new concerns in 2016,
down from 14 in 2015, but one more than developed countries.
Twelve new concerns were raised jointly by developing and
developed countries (see Figure 7).
Figure 6: Specific trade concerns raised in the TBT
Committee, 1995 to 2016

Figure 7: New specific trade concerns raised by
developing and developed countries, 1995 to 2016
1995

4

4

1996

6

6

1997

8

1998

9

1999

2

2000

4

4

1996

5

7

3

2001
2002

1997

11

1998

2003

9

1999

6

2004

10

2005

8

2000

4

2001

7
12

2003

12

2005

12

2006

12

2007

27

2015

14

27

2016

58

32

28
32
32

94

35

31

73

42

38

85

47

2015

49

37

2016

51

31

0

12

16

6

10

8
19

14

14

12

9

47

37

14

12

40

7

23

9

43

8
35

20

12

46

8

29

7

25
7

32

4

31

10

20

40

Previous concerns
New concerns

10

20

30

40

50

75

43
59

2014

27

61

29

2012
2013

12

74

46

2011

2

Developed countries
Both developed and developing countries
Developing countries

46

27

2010

5

26

0

36

24

26

2009

24

5

24

12

19

2008

7

16

2014

15

13

12

4

2013
32

20

20

14

20

2012
22

15

2002
2004

17

15

2 2

2011

13

3

12

2010

11

5

15
2 1

3

2009
16

13

11
17

2008

11

13

3

13

2007
6

6

13

1 3

3

2006
1995

11

1 2

60

86
82

80

100

Notifications
In 2016, WTO members submitted a record
2,324 notifications of new (or changed) draft measures
(see Figure 8), the highest figure since 1995. More than
60 per cent of all TBT notifications were submitted through the
WTO’s online portal, up from 52 per cent in 2015. The system
has enabled the WTO Secretariat to publish notifications
within two days of receipt. It also allows members to track the
status of submitted notifications through a user interface and
facilitates the preparation of similar notifications through the
use of templates.

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

59

Implementation
and monitoring

Examples of new concerns for 2016 were India’s new e-waste
regulations, Egypt’s compulsory manufacturer registration and
Korea’s health warning messages about smoking and drinking,
which appeared to make a link between alcohol consumption
and certain types of cancer.

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
Figure 8: TBT notifications, 1995 to 2016
1995

364 22

1996

461

386
501

40

1997

799

1998

650

1999

674

2000

608

2001

547

2002

587

2003

681

31

697

23

633

25

574

27

625

38

100

640

2005

155

1,035

2008

1,031
188

1,263

2009

ePing

894

130

876

2007

897

724

84

764

2006

845

46

797

2004

1,223
1,522

259

1,492

2010

397

1,432

2011

435

1,230

2012
2013

1,989

523
1,675

500

2,235

677

1,466

2016

2,137

509

1,558

2015

2,195

624

1,628

2014

1,889
1,867
1,771

541

1,571

0

The TBT Committee received updates in 2016 from
representatives of various observer organizations – the African
Organisation for Standardisation; the African, Caribbean
and Pacific States; the Bureau International des Poids et
Mesures; the FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission;
the International Electrotechnical Commission; the International
Organization of Legal Metrology; the International Standards
Organization; the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development; the United Nations Economic Commission for
Europe; and the World Health Organization – on their latest
activities, including on technical assistance.

1,000

1,500

649

2,324

2,000

2,500

Notifications
Addenda/Corrigenda

Fruit of a tripartite collaboration between the WTO,
the International Trade Centre (ITC) and the United Nations
Department of Social Affairs (UNDESA), the global trade alert
system “ePing” (www.epingalert.com) saw its official launch
in November 2016. The system provides relevant information
on product requirements in export markets through daily or
weekly email alerts about sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) and
TBT notifications on products and markets of interest to users.
Each year the WTO receives more than 3,500 TBT and SPS
(see page 55) notifications proposing measures that may affect
international trade. By improving access to this information,
ePing will help avoid disruptions caused by these measures.
An integral part of this online system is an Enquiry Point
Management tool, which facilitates information sharing
and discussions at the domestic and international level.
Stakeholders can track, comment on and/or adapt to the new
regulatory conditions, avoiding trade disruption and addressing
potential trade problems at an early stage.

Capacity building
Demand for TBT-related technical assistance has increased
significantly over the last few years. In 2016, the WTO
Secretariat organized 37 training activities. These included
five regional workshops, seven national workshops and three
advanced courses in Geneva on the TBT Agreement.
The activities were designed to help participants expand their
understanding of the TBT Agreement, to discuss challenges in
implementing the TBT Agreement and to better engage in the
work of the TBT Committee. Particular emphasis was placed
on transparency issues and national coordination. Several of
the training activities also covered the SPS Agreement.

Observers
The Committee granted ad hoc observer status to the
CARICOM Regional Organization for Standards and Quality.
The organization, which comprises national standards bodies
from each CARICOM member, works towards promoting the
harmonization of metrology systems and standards.
The “ePing” system, providing regular alerts about SPS and TBT
notifications, was launched at the WTO in November 2016.

Technical barriers to trade
www.wto.org/tbt

60

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Subsidies and
countervailing measures

subsidy programmes not included in their notifications.
It also discussed Australia’s proposal regarding additional
information to be included in a WTO Secretariat compendium
on subsidy notifications.

The Committee on Subsidies and Countervailing
Measures (SCM) focused on improving the
timeliness and completeness of WTO members’
notifications and on encouraging more
members to notify their subsidy programmes.
Numerous members expressed serious concern
at the state of notifications. The Committee
considered the status of notifications of
members that had benefited from extensions
to the period for eliminating export subsidies.

Both chairs urged developing countries that had not yet
made final notifications of the elimination of their export
subsidy programmes to do so. Nineteen developing countries
were given a final two-year extension, to the end of 2015,
for the elimination of such programmes. Final transparency
notifications of the removal of the subsidies were due by endJune 2016. The Committee reviewed the final notifications that
had been received, and considered the status of notifications
by the members that had not yet made their final notifications.
As of 31 December 2016, only seven members had provided
their final transparency notifications out of 19 in total.

At the autumn meeting, Mr Kim urged the 63 members that still
had not made their 2013 new and full subsidy notifications,
and the 89 members that had not yet done so for 2015, to do
so as soon as possible. Fifty-seven members had still not
submitted their 2011 notifications. Many of these members
“either have never notified or have done so only in the distant
past,” the Chair said. “The chronic low compliance with
the fundamental transparency obligation to notify subsidies
constitutes a serious problem in the proper functioning of the
(SCM) Agreement,” he added.
The Committee continued its consideration of 2015 new
and full notifications, which is the latest notification period,
and notifications for prior periods. It also continued to
discuss ways to improve the timeliness and completeness of
notifications and other information on trade measures under
the SCM Agreement. The Committee continued to consider
a proposal by the United States on procedures for questions
and answers when members ask about other members’

Background on subsidies and
countervailing measures
The Subsidies and Countervailing Measures (SCM)
Agreement disciplines WTO members’ use of subsidies
and regulates the actions WTO members can take
to counter the effects of subsidies if a subsidized
import is found to be injuring domestic producers of
that product. The SCM Committee serves as a forum
for members to discuss the implementation of the
SCM Agreement and any matters arising from this.

Least-developed countries (LDCs) and developing countries
with a per capita gross national income below US$ 1,000 a
year, calculated in constant 1990 dollars, are exempt from the
export subsidy prohibition. Based on World Bank calculations,
14 WTO members were still in the latter category in 2016.
The Committee also reviewed notifications of countervailing
actions taken (see Figure 9). As of 30 June 2016, there were
126 notified countervailing measures (definitive duties and
undertakings) in force. The Committee also returned to a
United States request to China about its support programmes
for fisheries. It also considered Brazil’s request to Canada
for information about launch aid for Canadian plane maker
Bombardier and an EU request to China. In addition,
the Committee returned to the issue raised by the United
States of the elimination by India of export subsidies for textile
and clothing products.
The Committee started to discuss a US proposal to enhance
information notified on fisheries subsidies, for which several
WTO members expressed support but no consensus
was reached.
The Committee also discussed a proposal by Brazil to
establish an implementation working group on countervailing
measures with an identical mandate to the one for antidumping. It proposed that the group operate as a forum where
members exchange views on technical matters related to the
implementation of countervailing and safeguard measures.
While several WTO members were supportive, others
considered that the scope of the proposed group should cover
the entire SCM Agreement, particularly subsidy notifications.
Finally, at the October meeting, the Committee discussed a
paper entitled “Subsidies and Over‑capacity – Follow-up from
the G-20 Process” submitted by the European Union, Japan,
Mexico and the United States. The co-sponsors proposed that
the Committee discuss whether the SCM Agreement needs to
be amended to effectively regulate subsidies that contribute to
over‑capacity in certain sectors.

Subsidies and countervailing measures
www.wto.org/scm
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

61

Implementation
and monitoring

In 2016, the SCM Committee reviewed WTO members’
notifications of specific subsidies, notifications of
countervailing duty legislation, semi‑annual reports of
countervailing actions and ad hoc notifications of preliminary
and final countervailing measures taken. The chairs – Mitsuhiro
Fukuyama of Japan at the spring meeting and Jin-dong Kim in
the autumn – drew members’ attention to the low compliance
with the fundamental transparency obligation of notifying their
subsidy programmes.

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Anti-dumping practices

Figure 9: Countervailing initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 1995 to end-June 2016*
1995

WTO members initiated 145 new anti-dumping
investigations from January to June 2016,
significantly up from 108 in the same period in
2015. India was the leading initiator, accounting
for nearly one-third of the total, followed by the
United States. Steel continued to be a major
concern. The Committee on Anti-Dumping
Practices reviewed new legislative notifications,
semi-annual reports on anti-dumping actions
and ad hoc notifications of preliminary and
final actions taken by WTO members.

10

1996

7

1997

16

1998

25

1999

41

2000

18

2001

27

2002

9

2003

15

2004

8

2005

6

2006

8

2007

11

2008

16

2009

28

2010

9

2011

25

2012

23

2013

33

2014

45

2015

31

30.06.2016

20

0

10

20

30

40

50

* Figure 9 covers initiations up to the end of June 2016. Data for the second half
of 2016 are not yet available.

India and the United States were by far the biggest initiators
of anti-dumping investigations in the first six months of 2016.
India initiated 48 investigations, four times as many as in
the same 2015 period, while the United States initiated 24,
sharply up from 15 previously. Argentina, Australia, Canada,
the European Union, Morocco, Pakistan and Thailand
also initiated more investigations. Other frequent users of
anti‑dumping investigations, including Brazil, China, Mexico
and Turkey, initiated fewer investigations. After India and the
United States, the top initiators in 2016 were Pakistan (12),
Australia (11) and Chinese Taipei (8) (see Figure 10).
Steel concerns continued to dominate discussions in the
Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices. At the Committee’s
April meeting, several members said they believe over‑capacity
in the steel sector and the resulting distortions in steel trade
are behind an increase in the initiation of safeguard and
anti‑dumping investigations on steel products.
Japan said that 41 new anti-dumping investigations targeting
steel imports were triggered in 2015. It added that it is
concerned that oversupply in steel is mainly due to an
economically unjustified expansion of production capacity
among emerging economies and that this is triggering a rise in
trade remedy measures globally. It urged members to examine
whether their investigations meet the strict requirements set
out under WTO rules. Brazil echoed Japan’s concerns about
the rising use of trade defence measures in the steel sector
and said the trend is increasing.

Background on anti-dumping practices
WTO members can apply “anti-dumping” measures
on imports of a product where the exporting
company exports the product at a price lower than
the price it normally charges in its home market and
the dumped imports cause or threaten to cause
injury to the domestic industry. The Committee on
Anti-Dumping Practices provides WTO members
with the opportunity to discuss any matters
relating to the Anti-Dumping Agreement.

Anti‑dumping practices
www.wto.org/ad

62

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Figure 10: Anti-dumping initiations by reporting
member, 1 January 2016 to end-June 2016*
Argentina

The Committee reviewed new notifications of legislation
submitted by the following members: Australia, Bahrain, Brazil,
Canada, Colombia, Dominican Republic, India, Kazakhstan,
Kuwait, Kyrgyz Republic, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Russia,
Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, United Arab Emirates, United States
and Vanuatu. Written questions posed about the legislative
notification of Cameroon remained on the agenda of the April
and October meetings.

6

Australia

11

Brazil

4

Canada

3

China

2

Costa Rica

1

Dominican Republic

1

Egypt

1

European Union

5

India

48

Mexico

1

Morocco

4

Pakistan

12

Chinese Taipei

Figure 11: Anti-dumping initiations by year, 1 January
1995 to end-June 2016*

8

Thailand

The Working Group on Implementation, which serves as a
forum for the exchange of information on member practices,
held two meetings in 2016 and discussed the gathering
and compilation of injury data and treatment of confidential
information in anti-dumping investigations. Some WTO
members made presentations or provided papers describing
their practices while other members contributed to the
discussions, posing questions or making comments.

7
4

Ukraine

1995

1

United States

24

Viet Nam

226

1997

2

0

157

1996

246

1998
10

20

30

40

50

264

1999

359

2000
* Figure 10 covers initiations up to the end of June 2016. Data for the second half
of 2016 are not yet available.

WTO members taking anti-dumping actions used the revised
report format, adopted in 2008, for their semi-annual reports.
Many used the minimum information format, as revised in
2009, in making their ad hoc notifications of such actions.
Compliance with this notification obligation has improved.
Following the creation of a more specific automated reply to
electronic notifications, most members have been providing all
their notifications electronically.
At its spring and autumn meetings, the Committee on
Anti‑Dumping Practices reviewed semi-annual reports for
the second half of 2015 submitted by 41 WTO members
and semi-annual reports for the first half of 2016 submitted
by 45 members. It also reviewed ad hoc notifications of
preliminary and final actions taken by 34 WTO members at
both meetings. As of 30 June 2016, 45 members had notified
the WTO of 1,598 anti-dumping measures (definitive duties
and undertakings) in force.

296

2001

372

2002

311

2003

234

2004

220

2005

200

2006

203

2007

165

2008

218

2009

217

2010

173

2011

165

2012

208

2013

287

2014

236

2015

230

30.06.2016

145

0

50

100

150

200

250

300

350

400

* Figure 11 covers initiations up to the end of June 2016. Data for the second half
of 2016 are not yet available.

145
WTO members initiated
145 new anti-dumping
investigations from January to
June 2016, compared to 108
in the same period in 2015.

Anti‑dumping practices
www.wto.org/ad
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

63

Implementation
and monitoring

Turkey

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Customs valuation
The Committee on Customs Valuation reviewed
WTO members’ national legislation on customs
valuation and received responses to a standard
checklist of issues. It concluded the review of
five members’ national legislation and received
one new notification and one new reply to
the checklist. The Committee continued to
discuss a Uruguay proposal to update the
method for determining the customs value of
software for data processing equipment.

Review of national legislation
The Committee on Customs Valuation concluded its
examination of the legislation of Ecuador, Mali, Moldova, South
Africa and Ukraine. It continued examining the legislation
of the Kingdom of Bahrain, Belize, Cabo Verde, Colombia,
The Gambia, Guinea, Honduras, Montenegro, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Russia, Rwanda and Sri Lanka. It also
started to examine the legislation of the Solomon Islands.
In addition, the Committee received Kazakhstan’s response
to the standardized checklist of issues, a questionnaire that
facilitates the Committee’s review of national legislation.
As of the end of 2016, the notification record remains poor,
with only 97 WTO members having notified their national
legislation and 65 members having provided responses to
the checklist.

Uruguay’s proposal
The Committee continued to discuss Uruguay’s proposal
to update a 30-year-old decision that has allowed WTO
members to value, for customs purposes, software and data
based on the cost of the carrier media (such as CDs) in which
they are transported from one country to another.

Background on customs valuation
The customs value of a good plays a critical role in the
calculation of import duties on an ad valorem basis.
An ad valorem duty rate is one that is expressed as a
percentage of the value of the imported goods, and it
is the most common duty rate used in international
trade. The Agreement on Customs Valuation
seeks to establish a fair system for the valuation of
goods for customs purposes. The Committee on
Customs Valuation oversees this agreement and
the Agreement on Pre-shipment Inspection.

Customs valuation
www.wto.org/customsvaluation

64

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

The proposal would update the Committee’s Decision on
the Valuation of Carrier Media Bearing Software for Data
Processing Equipment to take into account the fact that
software is increasingly being imported using new types of
carrier media, e.g. USB flash drives or other similar devices,
which might not fall under the existing definition of “carrier
medium”. The proposal enjoys wide support but remains under
discussion in the Committee.

Pre-shipment inspection
The Committee received two new notifications on pre‑shipment
inspection in 2016 – from Kazakhstan and Vanuatu.
Pre‑shipment inspection is the practice of employing private
companies to check shipment details, such as price, quantity
and quality of goods ordered overseas. The Agreement on
Pre‑shipment Inspection recognizes that the principles of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) apply to the
activities of pre‑shipment inspection agencies mandated by
governments.

Rules of origin
In 2016, the Committee held “transparency and
educational” sessions on non-preferential rules of
origin attended by private sector representatives
who highlighted the impact of these rules on
international trade. In addition, the Committee
discussed WTO members’ implementation of
the Nairobi ministerial decision on preferential
rules of origin, which aims to make it easier
for exports from least-developed countries
(LDCs) to qualify for preferential market
access. LDCs presented a draft template for
the notification of preferential rules of origin
which will be further discussed in 2017.

Background on rules of origin
Rules of origin are the criteria used to determine the
country in which a product is made. They are used in
the implementation of many trade measures, including
trade statistics, the determination of customs duties,
labelling of country of origin and the application
of anti-dumping measures. The main objective of
the Agreement on Rules of Origin is to harmonize
the rules that all WTO members use to determine
origin in their non-preferential trade. This work is
conducted by the Committee on Rules of Origin and
is referred to as the harmonization work programme.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Preferential rules of origin

The Committee on Rules of Origin held two information
sessions on non-preferential rules of origin in 2016. During
the sessions, private sector representatives explained
how businesses cope with non-preferential rules of origin
requirements. These sessions formed part of a transparency
and educational exercise that members agreed to initiate in
2014 because of a long‑standing deadlock in the Committee’s
work programme on harmonizing rules of origin.

The Committee discussed the implementation of the 2013 Bali
and 2015 Nairobi ministerial decisions on preferential rules of
origin for least-developed countries (LDCs). At Bali, ministers
set out for the first time multilaterally agreed guidelines to
make it easier for LDC exports to qualify for preferential market
access. At Nairobi, ministers took further steps towards
ensuring that preferential trade arrangements for LDCs
have simple and transparent rules of origin. Both decisions
instructed the Committee to annually review developments in
preferential rules of origin applicable to imports from LDCs.

The WTO Agreement on Rules of Origin mandated WTO
members to negotiate and adopt common rules of origin.
Harmonized rules would then be used by all WTO members
in their non-preferential trade. Non-preferential rules of origin
are those which apply in the absence of any trade preference
— that is, when trade is conducted on a most-favoured
nation (MFN) basis. Negotiations on the harmonization work
programme effectively halted around 2007 over differences
in the way harmonized rules would be combined with other
commercial regulations, such as anti-dumping or labelling.
Members hold different views on whether to finalize the
work programme.
The purpose of the transparency and educational exercise
is to hear different views and learn more about how existing
non-preferential rules of origin affect international trade and
businesses. Many speakers pointed out that compliance
with non-preferential rules of origin often imposes high
costs on firms. Some called for the harmonization of nonpreferential rules of origin, arguing that having a single global
standard would simplify the planning and management of
suppliers and reduce the uncertainty and risk associated with
certification and marking of origin. Many also called for greater
transparency in national requirements.
Drawing on views heard during these sessions, Switzerland
circulated questions to encourage fresh discussions in the
Committee about possible guidelines to streamline and
simplify non-preferential rules of origin requirements.
The Chair, Chih-Tung Chang (Chinese Taipei), told members
in September they should identify areas where work would
be useful and said the Committee could try to narrow down
discussions by focusing on specific topics, such as labelling,
certification and anti-dumping. He also said it would be
useful if members presented their own non-preferential origin
requirements in greater detail.

In 2016, the Committee noted some new features, such as the
introduction by the European Union, Norway and Switzerland
of a system of self-certification of origin for registered
exporters from LDCs. The Committee also reviewed
notifications by preference-granting members of their imports
from LDCs. At the April meeting, then chair Christian Wegener
(Denmark) reminded delegations of their obligation under the
Nairobi decision to inform the Committee about the measures
being taken by preference-granting members to implement
the 2015 ministerial decision. Developed countries should
do so by the end of 2016, while for developing countries
with preferential schemes, information is due when they start
implementing the ministerial decision.
The Secretariat circulated a background note with the latest
notifications of preferential rules of origin in favour of LDCs;
21 WTO members have preferential rules of origin for LDCs
in place. The Chair noted that the report shows “very uneven”
compliance with the notification requirements. Finally,
the Committee was informed about a new function of the WTO
Tariff Analysis Online (TAO) tool, which will allow users to
directly access utilization rates under preferences for LDCs.
Following up on ministers’ instructions in Nairobi, members
discussed a draft template for the notification of preferential
rules of origin prepared by the LDC Group. The LDCs consider
that greater transparency and understanding of existing origin
requirements will help their producers better seize market
access opportunities. Members also considered options for
the calculation of preferential utilization rates. Utilization rates
could be used as an indicator of the stringency of specific
preferential rules of origin (low utilization rates could indicate
that the rules are overly stringent and cannot be met by LDC
producers). The Committee will continue its discussions on
both the template and on utilization rates in 2017.

Many members said they saw value in continuing the
educational exercise, although some stressed the need to
delineate discussions in these informal sessions from the
formal work taking place in the Committee.

Rules of origin
www.wto.org/origin
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

65

Implementation
and monitoring

Non-preferential rules of origin

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Import licensing
The Committee on Import Licensing reviewed 86
notifications submitted by WTO members under
the Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures,
up from 67 in 2015. Nevertheless, the Chair of
the Committee, Tapio Pyysalo (Finland), said
compliance with notification obligations was
“not encouraging”. The Committee heard specific
trade concerns about import licensing rules
and procedures applied by some members.
The Committee on Import Licensing reviewed 25 notifications
from 13 WTO members regarding publications and/or
legislation on import licensing procedures, and 18 notifications
from 11 members relating to new import licensing
procedures or changes in these procedures. It also reviewed
43 notifications from 35 members regarding responses to a
questionnaire on import licensing procedures.
Improving transparency through notifications is an important
objective of the Agreement, particularly given concerns
about the use of border measures, such as import licensing
requirements, to restrict imports. The Agreement stipulates that
import licensing should be simple, transparent and predictable,
and administered in a neutral and non‑discriminatory manner.

86
The Committee on Import
Licensing reviewed 86
notifications submitted by
WTO members in 2016,
up from 67 in 2015.

the appropriate template for each type of notification and
improvements to the annual questionnaire.
During the Committee’s review of new notifications,
the European Union sought clarification on notifications from
Bolivia and Malaysia. Malaysia asked questions regarding
Turkey’s surveillance system on imports of solar products.
The Committee also heard several new specific trade concerns
regarding import licensing. Several emerging economies raised
questions about an EU “surveillance” measure on imports of
certain steel and iron products, which requires information
about traders’ intention to import. Russia, supported by China
and Brazil, said the procedures have a “significant” impact
on delivery times and thus grant an advantage to domestic
suppliers in the European Union. The EU replied that licences
are valid for four months and can be requested in advance.

As of October 2016, 15 WTO members had not submitted any
notifications under the Agreement. In addition, 23 members
had never fulfilled their obligation to submit responses to the
annual questionnaire on licensing procedures. WTO trade
monitoring reports have identified import licensing as
one of the main trade-restricting measures introduced
by governments.

Russia also sought clarification from Ukraine on a draft law that
would restrict the distribution of print materials such as books
and magazines “with so-called anti-Ukrainian content”. It called
on Ukraine to adhere to relevant WTO rules.

In 2016, six members submitted notifications for the first time
– Afghanistan, Bolivia, El Salvador, Kazakhstan, Seychelles
and Tajikistan. The WTO Secretariat continued to provide
technical assistance and capacity building to members in
need. All notifications submitted by members are published on
the WTO website.

Some members reiterated concerns about India’s import
regime on boric acid, Brazil’s import licensing regulatory
requirements on nitrocellulose, Indonesia’s import regulations
on cell phones, handheld computers and tablets, Viet Nam’s
import regime on distilled spirits, Mexico’s steel import
licensing regime and Bangladesh’s import licensing
procedures. In addition, WTO members raised questions
about several other topics, including Morocco’s import regime
on bladed weapons and aerial vehicles.

The low level of compliance with transparency obligations has
been the main preoccupation of the Committee. The Chair
held six informal meetings in 2016 on improving transparency
and streamlining the notification procedures and templates
of the Agreement. To facilitate the discussion, the Secretariat
prepared a number of background papers and presentations.
There is general recognition that the issue of overlapping
notification requirements contained in different provisions,
as well as the duplications in current notification templates,
contribute to the low compliance.
Nevertheless, the Chair said he was encouraged to see more
WTO members involved in efforts to improve notification
procedures. He identified five issues as priorities for
discussion in the Committee: identification of overlapping
notification requirements, clarification of elements to
be notified, the types of notifications and their content,

Ukraine, in response, said that the draft law prescribes the
treatment of print material “of extremist nature”.

Background on import licensing
The Agreement on Import Licensing Procedures
establishes disciplines on WTO members’ import
licensing systems, with the principal objective of
ensuring that the procedures applied for granting
import licences do not in themselves restrict trade.
The Agreement says import licensing should be
simple, transparent and predictable, and administered
in a neutral and non-discriminatory way.

Import licensing
www.wto.org/importlicensing

66

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Safeguards

Figure 12: Safeguard investigations by year (for all
WTO members)

In 2016, the number of new investigations initiated declined to
11, from 17 in 2015 (see Figure 12). Safeguard investigations
were initiated by 13 WTO members: China, the Cooperation
Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) member
countries (two), India, Jordan, Malaysia (two), South Africa
(two), Thailand and Viet Nam. The GCC conducts safeguard
investigations and imposes common measures on behalf of its
member states – Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia
and the United Arab Emirates.

10

2009

25
4

2010

20
11

2011

12
6

2012

24
8

2013

18
11

2014

23
13

2015

17
5

2016

11

0

5

10

Final measures

15

20

25

30

Initiation

The steel sector accounted for eight of the 11 investigations
initiated in 2016, an unusually high percentage.

of safeguard measures. They stressed that safeguards, unlike
anti-dumping and countervailing duties, target exports that are
not violating any WTO rules, and members imposing these
measures should therefore be particularly careful.

Several members told the Committee they believed
over‑capacity in the steel sector, and the resulting distortions
in steel trade, were triggering an increase in the initiation of
safeguard and anti‑dumping investigations (see page 62) on
steel products. Many members called for caution in the use

In 2016, WTO members imposed five new safeguard
measures, a sharp decline from 2014 and 2015 when the
number of final measures was unusually high. The countries
that imposed final measures were Chile, India (two), Ukraine
and Viet Nam.

8
The steel sector accounted
for 8 of the 11 safeguard
investigations initiated in 2016.

Background on safeguards
WTO members may take safeguard actions (temporarily
restrict imports of a product) to protect a specific
domestic industry from an increase in imports of any
product that is causing, or threatening to cause, serious
injury to the industry. In these circumstances, they have
the right to restrict imports of the product from all
sources (but not from a specific member or group of
members). The Agreement on Safeguards provides
detailed rules concerning the investigation that must be
conducted and the application of safeguard measures.
During an investigation, importers, exporters and other
interested parties may present evidence, give their
views and respond to the presentations of other parties.

Safeguards
www.wto.org/safeguards
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

67

Implementation
and monitoring

The Safeguards Committee reviewed WTO
members’ notifications of their safeguard
rules and actions. Just 11 new investigations
were initiated in 2016, the lowest figure since
2008. Notifications of final measures were the
lowest since 2010. But members expressed
concern at the rising use of safeguard
measures in steel, which accounted for over
70 per cent of new investigations in 2016.

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade-related
investment measures
The WTO’s Committee on Trade-Related
Investment Measures (TRIMs) discussed three
new investment measures. The Committee
also continued to debate several measures
previously raised by WTO members. In addition, it
reviewed compliance with members’ notification
obligations under the TRIMs Agreement.
The TRIMs Committee met twice in 2016, with three new
investment measures on the agenda, all concerning alleged
local content requirements, which stipulate that at least part of
a good or service should be locally produced.
The first measure, discussed at the request of the United
States, concerned draft regulations published by China
requiring companies in the insurance industry to procure
“secure and controllable” information technologies (IT).
The United States said that the draft measure could imply a
preference for local technologies. The European Union and
other members echoed this concern. China countered that the
issue is not relevant to the TRIMs Committee and has already
been raised elsewhere.
Several WTO members raised concerns about Russian
import-substitution measures replacing foreign imports with
domestic production. The European Union said that Russia
seems to be extending its local content requirement, pointing
to a new measure in Russia to give 15 per cent price
preference for domestic products. Russia replied that many
of the items at issue are merely proposals that may or may
not be implemented. The third new issue, discussed at the
request of Mexico, related to a new Argentinian law offering
tax incentives to automakers that give preference to the use
of local components. Argentina responded that the law at
issue has not been implemented pending the approval of
regulatory legislation.

The Committee also discussed several concerns,
some of them long-standing, regarding measures adopted by
Indonesia. These include local content requirements for certain
mobile devices (smartphones) and for the telecommunications
and energy sectors. WTO members also reiterated concerns
about Indonesia’s Industry Law and Trade Law and its minimum
local product content requirements for the retail sector.
The Committee took note of two new notifications under
Article 6.2 of the TRIMs Agreement, which requires WTO
members to notify the Committee of all publications in which
TRIMs may be found, including those applied by regional
and local governments and authorities within their territory.
Members who had not provided notifications to date were
urged to do so promptly.
The Committee also received notifications from Kazakhstan
and Kuwait, under Article 5.1 of the TRIMs Agreement, which
requires members to notify any trade-related investment
measure that is not in conformity with the TRIMs Agreement.
Kazakhstan’s notification referred to certain local content
requirements in the oil and gas and mining sectors and to
certain provisions on industrial assembly of motor vehicles.
Kuwait’s notification indicated that it does not apply any
WTO‑inconsistent TRIMs.
In December 2016, the Chair of the Committee, Marine
Willemetz (Switzerland), undertook consultations with
interested members to hear views on possible ways to improve
the operation of the Committee.

Background on trade-related
investment measures
The Agreement on Trade-Related Investment
Measures (TRIMs) recognizes that certain investment
measures can restrict and distort trade. It states
that WTO members may not apply any trade‑related
investment measure that discriminates against
foreign products or that leads to quantitative
restrictions, both of which violate basic WTO
principles. A list of prohibited TRIMs, such as local
content requirements, is part of the Agreement.
The TRIMs Committee monitors the operation and
implementation of the Agreement and allows members
the opportunity to consult on any relevant matters.

Trade-related investment measures
www.wto.org/trims

68

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Information
Technology Agreement
The Committee continued to review progress on
implementation of the Information Technology
Agreement (ITA). A symposium will be held
in June 2017 to mark the 20th anniversary of
the ministerial declaration that launched the
ITA. In 2016, participants in the ITA expansion
agreement started implementing their tariff
reduction commitments. Macao, China, joined
the expansion of the ITA in December.

IT symposium
Participants have agreed to hold a symposium on 27-28
June 2017 to mark the 20th anniversary of the Information
Technology Agreement. Committee Chair Zsofia Tvarusko
(Hungary) said she had started consulting with delegations
on the format, structure and themes for the symposium.
Some delegations stressed the need to make the symposium
balanced by highlighting the concerns of developing countries.

Product classification divergences
In 2016, the Committee made some further progress
in reducing divergences in product classification. At its
meeting of 18 April, the Committee agreed on the HS2007
classification (see page 52) of 15 additional so-called
“Attachment B” products, thereby reducing the number of
ITA products without an agreed HS2007 code to 22 items.
“Attachment B” refers to a list of items attached to the 1996
Ministerial Declaration and for which there was no agreed
tariff classification. ITA participants continue to work on the
remaining 22 items to find a common classification. The WTO
Secretariat is providing technical assistance to ITA participants
in modifying their WTO schedules of commitments to reflect
the agreed classification changes.

Non-tariff measures (NTMs)

Background on the Information
Technology Agreement
The Information Technology Agreement (ITA)
was concluded in December 1996 in Singapore.
The plurilateral agreement requires participants to
eliminate duties on IT products on a most-favoured
nation (MFN) basis. It has 53 participants, representing
82 WTO members. The ITA covers a large number
of high-technology products, including computers,
telecommunication equipment, semiconductors,
software and scientific instruments. The Committee
of the Participants on the Expansion of Trade in
Information Technology Products oversees the
Agreement. The ITA expansion agreement was
concluded at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in
Nairobi in 2015 after three years of negotiations. It has
25 participants, representing 54 WTO members.

One of the key areas of the NTMs work programme is a survey
on conformity assessment procedures for electromagnetic
compatibility (EMC) and electromagnetic interference (EMI)
adopted and used by ITA participants. But responses to
the survey, which aims to lead to the adoption of common
guidelines, remains poor. Only 33 participants in the ITA have
provided responses. The Committee encouraged those that
have not yet done so to reply without further delay to enhance
transparency and simplification.
In other areas of its work on non-tariff barriers (NTBs),
the Committee continued to discuss follow-up to an

97%
The Information Technology
Agreement covers 97 per
cent of world trade in IT
products, with 90 per cent
of this trade now duty‑free.

Information Technology Agreement
www.wto.org/ita
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

69

Implementation
and monitoring

The number of participants in the ITA has remained at 53,
representing 82 WTO members. The agreement covers
around 97 per cent of world trade in information technology
products, of which 90 per cent is duty‑free. During the year,
the Committee of the Participants on the Expansion of Trade in
Information Technology Products continued to review progress
in the implementation of the ITA.

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
industry‑driven workshop held in May 2015, at which the private
sector shared its experience with trade policy‑makers. The main
issues raised at the workshop by industry representatives were
transparency, standards for recognition of test results,
e‑labelling and energy efficiency. At the request of the
Committee, the Chair Andrew Staines (United Kingdom) held
informal consultations with interested delegations to examine the
recommendations and avenues that were suggested by industry
representatives. The consultations will continue in 2017.

Expansion of the ITA
In 2016, participants in the ITA expansion agreement,
concluded at the Tenth Ministerial Conference in December
2015, started implementing their tariff reduction commitments.
The landmark deal will liberalize trade in a further
201 high‑tech products, whose annual value is estimated
at some US$ 1.3 trillion, around 10 per cent of world trade
in goods.
Covered products include new generation multi‑component
integrated circuits, touch screens, GPS navigation equipment,
portable interactive electronic education devices, video game
consoles, and medical equipment such as magnetic resonance
imaging and ultra‑sonic scanning apparatus. The expansion
of the agreement was the first major tariff‑cutting deal at the
WTO since 1996.
In December 2016, Macao, China, joined the expansion of
the ITA. It presented an ambitious offer which immediately
eliminates import duties and other charges on all 201 covered
products. The inclusion of Macao, China, took the number of
participants to 25, representing 54 WTO members, including
developed and developing countries, and accounting for
approximately 90 per cent of world trade in these products.
Many other WTO members have signalled an interest
in joining.
The decision taken at the Tenth Ministerial Conference
established that the first set of tariff cuts would be
implemented on 1 July 2016 and the second set no later than
1 July 2017. Further reductions would take place on 1 July
2018, with effective elimination for 90 per cent of the tariff
lines covered – representing 95 per cent of imports – no later
than 1 July 2019.
By the end of 2016, a large majority of participants had
implemented their tariff commitments. Reporting on behalf of
the ITA expansion group to the ITA Committee, Canada said
that 18 of the 24 participants had submitted modified tariff
schedules of commitments and that others were on track to do
so. The cuts will be bound and applied on a most‑favoured
nation (MFN) basis, which means that all WTO members will
benefit from duty‑free access in these markets.

201
The expanded Information
Technology Agreement
liberalizes trade in a further
201 high-tech products,
whose annual value is
estimated at US$ 1.3 trillion.

State trading enterprises
The Working Party on State Trading Enterprises
(STEs) continued its monitoring of WTO members’
notifications during its two formal meetings
in 2016 and encouraged WTO members who
were behind in complying with their notification
obligations to improve their record.
At the June and October meetings of the Working Party on
State Trading Enterprises, members started the review of new
and full notifications of STEs in 2016 and asked questions
about specific aspects of notifications made at previous
meetings. The first notifications made by China and Viet Nam
since they acceded to the WTO were among those reviewed.
In 2016, compliance with notification obligations remained
poor. For the 2016 notification period only 33 new and full
notifications were received out of a total of 136 members
subject to this obligation. Members were encouraged by
the Working Party to continue to work with their respective
capitals and the WTO Secretariat to improve their
notification record.
The Working Party continued to discuss a Canadian paper
on agricultural exporting state trading enterprises, which aims
at bringing to the attention of the Working Party discussions
on export competition held in the Committee on Agriculture
(see page 54).
Finally, the Working Party discussed a proposal aimed at
improving transparency by automatically placing on the agenda

Background on state trading enterprises
State trading enterprises are defined as governmental
or non-governmental enterprises, including marketing
boards, which have been granted exclusive or
special rights or privileges to deal with goods for
export and/or import. They are required to act in
a manner consistent with the WTO principle of
non‑discriminatory treatment. The Working Party
on State Trading Enterprises reviews notifications
by WTO members of their state trading activities.

State trading enterprises
www.wto.org/statetrading

70

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

of meetings those items whose review had not started or had
not been completed at previous meetings. Consultations on
this proposal continued into 2017.

Trade in civil aircraft
In 2016, the Trade in Civil Aircraft Committee
began discussing how to deal with the
issue of further amending the Agreement
on Trade in Civil Aircraft to reflect the
latest international harmonized system of
product coverage. Tajikistan was granted
observer status in the Committee.
WTO members approved Tajikistan’s request for observer
status in the Committee. Tajikistan reaffirmed its intention
to join the Agreement, which it undertook to do in its WTO
accession commitments. It acceded to the WTO in 2013.

Implementation
and monitoring

The Committee adopted in November 2015 a protocol
amending the Agreement to bring product coverage into line
with the 2007 update of the Harmonized System (HS2007),
used for classifying goods for customs purposes. The protocol
had been under negotiation since 2008. None of the 32
signatories to the Agreement, of which 20 are member states
of the European Union, has yet submitted to the WTO its
instrument of acceptance of this protocol.
At its November 2016 meeting, the Committee discussed a
proposal for another round of discussions to further update the
products list to align it with the 2012 version of the Harmonized
System. The Chair, Hsiao-Yin Wu (Chinese Taipei), said he will
hold informal consultations on the issue.

Background on trade in civil aircraft
The Agreement on Trade in Civil Aircraft aims to
achieve maximum freedom of world trade in civil
aircraft, parts and related equipment – such as
engines, radar, flight recorders and ground flight
simulators – by eliminating tariffs, promoting fair
and equal competitive opportunities for civil aircraft
manufacturers, and regulating government support for
civil aircraft development, production and marketing.
The Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft provides
signatories with an opportunity to consult on any
matters relating to the operation of the Agreement.

Trade in civil aircraft
www.wto.org/aircraft
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

71

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade facilitation
A major milestone for the global trading system was reached on 22 February 2017.
The first multilateral trade deal concluded in the 21-year history of the WTO entered
into force when the WTO obtained the necessary number of acceptances from
the WTO’s 164 members for the Trade Facilitation Agreement to take effect.

Rwanda, Oman, Chad and Jordan submitted their instruments
of acceptance to WTO Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo on
22 February, bringing the total number of ratifications over the
required threshold of 110, or two‑thirds of the WTO
membership, the number needed to bring the TFA into force.
By expediting the movement, release and clearance of goods
across borders, the TFA is expected to give a significant boost
to global commerce and to the multilateral trading system.
Full implementation of the TFA is forecast to slash WTO
members’ trade costs by an average of 14.3 per cent, notably
by cutting the time taken to import and export goods. The TFA
is likely to reduce the time needed to import goods by over
a day and a half, and to export goods by almost two days,
representing a reduction of 47 per cent and 91 per cent
respectively over the current average. Implementing the TFA is
also expected to help new firms to export.
Developing countries have the most to gain from the TFA;
once it is fully implemented, developing countries may see a
20 per cent rise in the number of new products they export,
with least‑developed countries (LDCs) likely to see an increase
of up to 35 per cent, according to a study by WTO economists
published in the 2015 World Trade Report.
DG Azevêdo said: “By ratifying the Agreement, WTO members
have shown their commitment to the multilateral trading
system. They have followed through on the promises made
when this deal was struck in Bali just over three years ago. And
by bringing the deal into force we can now begin the work

Background on trade facilitation
Negotiations on the Trade Facilitation Agreement were
successfully concluded at the WTO’s Ninth Ministerial
Conference in December 2013. The Agreement
entered into force following ratification by twothirds of WTO members. The Agreement aims to
expedite the movement, release and clearance of
goods across borders and to establish measures for
effective cooperation between customs and other
authorities on trade facilitation and customs compliance
issues. The Agreement also contains provisions
for technical assistance and capacity building.

of turning its benefits into reality… By 2030, the Agreement
could add 2.7 percentage points per year to world trade
growth and more than half a percentage point per year to world
GDP growth. This impact would be greater than the elimination
of all existing tariffs around the world.”
The Agreement is unique in that it allows developing countries
and LDCs to set their own timetable for implementation
depending on their capacity to do so. A Trade Facilitation
Agreement Facility (TFAF) (see below) was created at the
request of developing and least-developed countries to help
ensure they receive the assistance needed to reap the full
benefits of the TFA and to support the ultimate goal of full
implementation of the Agreement by all WTO members.
Developed countries have committed to immediately implement
the Agreement, which sets out a broad series of trade
facilitation reforms. The provisions include improvements to the
availability and publication of information about cross-border
procedures and practices, improved appeal rights for traders,
reduced fees and formalities connected with the import/
export of goods, faster clearance procedures and enhanced
conditions for freedom of transit for goods. The Agreement
also contains measures for effective cooperation between
customs and other authorities on trade facilitation and customs
compliance issues.
Developing and least-developed countries will immediately
apply only the TFA provisions they have designated as
“Category A” commitments. For the other provisions,

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation

72

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

The Trade Facilitation Agreement
entered into force on 22 February 2017.

How does the TFA cut red tape at the border for
easier trade?
•	 Speeds up the release and clearance of goods
•	 Makes information on rules and procedures more
readily available
•	 Requires WTO members to accept e-payments and
electronic versions of certain documents
•	 Imposes disciplines for fees and penalties charged
for customs processing of imports and exports and
other services
•	 Introduces harmonized processes and standards for
border agencies and customs
•	 Provides opportunities for traders and others to
comment on proposed rules and states that WTO
members shall provide a right to appeal customs
administrative decisions
•	 Provides for special and differential treatment for
developing countries seeking to implement
the Agreement.

14.3%

2 days

Full implementation
of the TFA is
expected to reduce
trade costs by an
average 14.3%, with
least-developed
countries forecast
to enjoy an even
bigger reduction.

The TFA is likely
to reduce the time
needed to import
goods by over a
day and a half and
to export goods by
almost two days.
Implementation
and monitoring

Its aim is to streamline, simplify and standardise customs procedures
and to ease the flow of goods across borders.

By 2030, implementation of the TFA could add up to:

2.7%

0.5%

2.7 percentage
points per year to
world trade growth

more than half a
percentage point
per year to world
GDP growth

WTO
Trade Facilitation
Agreement

The WTO's Trade Facilitation Agreement
Facility will help developing countries
assess their specific needs for
implementing the Agreement and to identify
possible development partners.

Rwanda, Oman, Chad and Jordan submitted
their instruments of acceptance to DG Azevêdo
on 22 February, bringing the total number
of ratifications over the required threshold
of two-thirds of the WTO membership, the
number needed to bring the TFA into force.

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

73

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
categories “B” and “C”, they must indicate when these will
be implemented and, in the case of category C provisions,
what capacity-building support will be needed to help them
implement them. By the end of 2016, 90 WTO members had
provided their notifications of category A commitments and
six members had submitted notifications for categories B and
C. Notifications on category B and C commitments are to be
submitted by developing countries upon entry into force of the
TFA, with LDCs given an additional year.
During 2016, WTO members regularly updated the
Preparatory Committee on Trade Facilitation on the state of
their ratification process and briefed it on technical assistance
and capacity-building activities. A workshop on establishing
national committees on trade facilitation, a requirement of the
Agreement, was held on 8 June 2016. The committees will
facilitate domestic coordination and implementation of the
provisions of the Agreement.
Representatives from more than 150 countries shared their
experiences on setting up such committees. Officials from
government agencies outlined their experiences in drafting the
mandates, defining the institutional frameworks and ensuring
the proper functioning of such committees. Donor agencies
and international organizations also outlined how to obtain
assistance to set up and maintain the committees.
A common theme in the discussions was the importance of
private sector involvement, particularly representatives from
small and medium-sized enterprises, as business is directly
affected by customs bottlenecks and red tape which the TFA
seeks to address. Another common theme was the need for
coordination between government ministries and agencies with
a role in TFA implementation.

Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility
The Trade Facilitation Agreement Facility (TFAF) was launched
in 2014 to provide guidance to developing and least-developed
countries on the implementation of the TFA. It provides an
information-sharing platform to provide resources, to help
identify possible donors and to undertake donor and recipient
match-making activities. It will also provide project preparation
and project implementation grants in cases where efforts to
attract funding from other sources have failed.
In 2016, the work of the TFAF national and regional workshops
focused on helping WTO members prepare for ratification of
the TFA and submit notifications to allow them to benefit from
flexibilities in implementing the Agreement. It also organized
two courses aimed at helping the chairs of the national
trade facilitation committees increase their understanding of
the Agreement.
In addition, the TFAF helped to find donors for members
that requested assistance, and held meetings with partner
organizations/donors to enhance coordination of support for
implementation of the Agreement.
The TFAF complements efforts by regional and multilateral
agencies, bilateral donors and other stakeholders that provide
technical assistance and capacity-building support for trade
facilitation. It is funded by WTO members on a voluntary basis.
While funding is an important element of the Facility, its core
purpose is to help WTO members access the support they
need through existing projects offered by bilateral donors as
well as by international and regional organizations and the
private sector.

Trade facilitation
www.wto.org/tradefacilitation

74

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade in services

E-commerce
Electronic commerce – the production, distribution, marketing,
sale or delivery of goods and services by electronic means –
figured prominently on the Council’s agenda in 2016. China
presented recent data on the continuing acceleration of
e-commerce in its market while Canada shared information on
the e-commerce provisions included in its trade agreements.
At the June meeting, after noting that existing WTO rules
apply to e-commerce, some delegations called on the WTO
membership to consider whether additional disciplines might
usefully complement the multilateral rulebook in this area.
A few delegations reiterated, however, that WTO members’
discussions under the e-commerce work programme, launched
in 1998, must not aim at any prescriptive outcomes.
Brazil proposed that the WTO Secretariat update a 1998 note
produced to assist members’ examination of the treatment of
e-commerce in the General Agreement on Trade in Services
(GATS) legal framework. Many delegations welcomed the
suggestion but no consensus was reached.

Background on trade in services
The General Agreement on Trade in Services (GATS)
defines trade in services in terms of four types of
transactions: mode 1 – cross-border supply (a
supplier in one WTO member provides services
to a consumer in another member’s territory);
mode 2 – consumption abroad (a consumer from one
member consumes services in another member’s
territory); mode 3 – commercial presence (a foreign
company provides services through establishment in
another member’s territory); and mode 4 – presence
of natural persons (individuals move to supply
services in another member’s territory). The Council
for Trade in Services, which is open to all WTO
members, oversees the operation of the GATS.

In October, the Council considered a proposal by a group
of WTO members for a seminar on the services aspects of
e-commerce. At the November meeting, members agreed,
in principle, to hold the seminar. Many delegations called
for the event to focus on the development dimension of
e-commerce, to address exclusively services issues and
to serve as an information-sharing exercise, remaining
within the mandate of the work programme and without any
negotiating implications.
Some WTO members said their agreement on the seminar
was conditional on the Council also agreeing to a proposal
for a mode 4 seminar (see below). The Secretariat was tasked
with the preparation of a draft programme for the seminar that
reflected all the concerns raised and comments made.
China presented a communication, which it also submitted
to other WTO bodies tasked with the e-commerce work
programme (see page 46). It proposed that discussions should
focus on services directly supporting trade in goods enabled
by the Internet, such as payment and logistics services.
All WTO members welcomed the communication, with several
seeking a number of clarifications. Many members expressed
support for its call to enhance transparency and information
exchange. A few also backed its call for the moratorium on
custom duties on electronic transmissions to be extended,
with a number arguing that it should be made permanent.
In terms of the institutional arrangement for e-commerce
discussions, most WTO members expressed flexibility but
some argued for deliberations to take place initially in the
WTO’s subsidiary councils and committees and to be referred
to the General Council only when sufficiently mature.

LDC services waiver
The Council continued to discuss the services waiver for
least-developed countries (LDCs). The waiver, agreed in 2011,
enables WTO members to grant more favourable treatment
to LDC services and service suppliers. By the end of 2016,
the Council had received 23 notifications of preferential

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

75

Implementation
and monitoring

The Council for Trade in Services focused much of its work on electronic commerce,
with WTO members exchanging information and considering a proposal for a
seminar on the services aspect of this topic. A seminar was also proposed to
discuss barriers to the cross-border movement of persons to provide services
(mode 4). The Council continued addressing the services waiver, which allows
for more favourable treatment to be given to least-developed countries.

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

treatment to LDC services and service suppliers, provided by
50 members (counting EU member states individually).
Notifications were submitted by Canada, Australia, Norway,
Korea, China, Hong Kong (China), Chinese Taipei, Singapore,
New Zealand, Switzerland, Japan, Mexico, Turkey, the United
States, India, Chile, Iceland, Brazil, the European Union,
Liechtenstein, South Africa, Uruguay and Thailand.
As instructed by ministers at the 10th Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi, the Council promptly considered and approved all
preferential treatment going beyond market access measures.
The ministerial waiver stipulated that while WTO members
can implement preferential treatment related to market access
measures upon notification to the Council, preferential
treatment regarding any other measure is subject to the
Council’s approval.
During the year, LDCs offered a detailed assessment of the
preferences notified by the European Union, South Africa,
Turkey and Canada. LDCs intend to continue sharing their
examination of the notifications received at future meetings of
the Council.
In Nairobi, ministers also instructed the Council to facilitate
discussions on technical assistance aimed at promoting
LDCs’ participation in services trade. The European Union,
China, Australia and India shared information on their
capacity‑building measures. A representative of the World
Bank provided an overview of the types of assistance likely to
be of greatest relevance to LDCs.

The communication referred to measures by the United States,
Canada and the United Kingdom that India judges to impede
or may impede mode 4 trade. The delegations concerned
questioned India’s approach in citing specific measures, rather
than generic barriers, and expressed their disappointment
that the issue had been raised in the Council in a manner
they considered unconstructive. Several developing countries
echoed India’s general concerns about the many barriers that
hamper mode 4 trade. India also proposed that the WTO
Secretariat update its 2009 background note on mode 4 but a
few members did not agree with the suggestion.
When the Council took up the issue again in October, India
suggested that, rather than focusing on specific members’
measures, the Council should organize either a dedicated
discussion or a seminar to discuss generic mode 4 obstacles
(such as unclear definitions, non-portability of social security,
non-recognition of qualifications, residency requirements and
economic needs tests).
Several WTO members offered their preliminary support
to the suggestion but called on India to submit its proposal
in writing. A few others called for a broader discussion of
services market access issues, across all modes, and noted
the importance of taking into account the sectoral scope and
level of commitments.
In November, India made a written proposal for a mode
4 seminar. Although most WTO members said that, subject to
clarifications and some amendments to the agenda, they could
support India’s suggestion, a few did not have instructions
from their capitals and could not agree to it. It was agreed that
the Chair would hold consultations on the proposal.

Mode 4 (movement of natural persons)
At its March and June meetings, the Council addressed a
communication by India assessing barriers to entry in mode 4,
which covers the temporary movement of people (rather than
companies) across borders to supply services.

Exemptions to the MFN obligation
In June, the Council started a fourth review of the exemptions
that many WTO members took from the most‑favoured nation
(MFN) obligation on becoming a member of the WTO.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services

76

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

23
The Services Council
received 23 notifications
of preferential treatment
provided by WTO members
to LDC services and service
suppliers by end-2016.

Other issues

Specific commitments

At the meetings in March, June, October and November,
Russia made a statement on measures related to the reform
of the Unified Gas Transportation System of Ukraine. Ukraine
responded to the statement and a few other WTO members
intervened on this issue.

In 2016, the Committee on Specific Commitments considered
how to reinvigorate the discussion on economic needs tests
(ENTs). An ENT is a test that conditions market access on the
fulfilment of certain economic criteria. A major problem with
respect to ENTs is that most relevant entries in WTO members’
schedules of commitments provide no or minimal indications
on the criteria applied.

In March, Canada raised concerns about new administrative
rulings adopted by China related to online publishing services.
In accordance with the GATS’ transparency provisions,
the Council received 20 notifications of new or revised
measures that could significantly affect trade in sectors
where the notifying WTO members have commitments.
Another 13 notifications dealt with new economic integration
agreements covering services trade.

Financial services
On 18 March 2016, Brazil accepted the Fifth Protocol to the
GATS, which embodies the results of the financial services
negotiations concluded in 1997. The protocol has now been
accepted by all its parties.
The Committee on Trade in Financial Services continued
its consideration of financial inclusion, focusing on the most
important barriers, such as inadequate regulatory frameworks,
institutional weaknesses and deficient financial infrastructure.
It also focused on trade in services’ contribution to the
elimination of financial exclusion. As part of this discussion,
WTO members exchanged information on their respective
financial inclusion initiatives.
Under the Committee’s ongoing review of global financial
regulatory reform and the implications for trade in financial
services, the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of
Information for Tax Purposes made a presentation on recent
developments and discussed with WTO members the potential
implications for trade in financial services.
Jamaica, on behalf of the members of the Caribbean
Community (CARICOM), highlighted the problems
associated with de-risking by global banks, which could
affect a wide range of international transactions, including
remittance transfers, international trade finance and credit
card settlements.

Turkey made a number of suggestions for future work,
including updating the WTO Secretariat’s note on ENTs,
examining tendencies in the scheduling of ENTs in regional
trade agreements, exchanging information among WTO
members on the application of ENTs and identifying common
elements of the criteria for ENTs by mode or by sector. Turkey’s
proposal received general support.
Members generally agreed that ambiguous ENT entries in
WTO members’ schedules of commitments undermined the
value of specific commitments under the GATS. Nevertheless,
the Committee only agreed to task the Secretariat with updating
its note by examining the schedules of newly acceded members.
The WTO Secretariat examined the schedules of commitments
of the 11 WTO members that have acceded to the WTO since
16 April 2010. The note highlights that many ENT-related
entries continue to be problematic, even in new members’
schedules. The Committee will continue to consider how to
proceed further with Turkey’s proposal.
The Committee briefly touched upon the issue of “new services”
– those that appear to be not specifically mentioned in the
GATS classification system. A number of WTO members
indicated that the Committee had exhausted this discussion
while some others continued to express interest in further
exploring related issues. Members have been divided on
whether “new services” exist and whether a definition is needed
and on their implications for existing GATS commitments.
The Chair, Gustavo Miguel Vanerio Balbela (Uruguay),
held consultations on possible future work under the
Committee’s mandate. At the meeting of 5 October 2016,
a number of WTO members expressed interest in having
discussions on various scheduling and classification issues,
in particular those related to e-commerce. There were also
questions about the purpose of the Committee’s work in the
absence of market access negotiations. The Chair will continue
to consult with members on the future work of the Committee.

Trade in services
www.wto.org/services
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

77

Implementation
and monitoring

The review examines whether the conditions that gave rise
to the exemptions still exist. The Council decided to hold
the substantive part of the review in a dedicated meeting in
March 2017 on the basis of a question-and-answer process
organized by sector. It requested questions to be submitted
in writing before the end of 2016 and answers circulated in
written form in advance of the dedicated meeting. The WTO
Secretariat was mandated to update the compilations and
statistical notes on MFN exemptions it had prepared for the
previous review in 2010.

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade-related aspects of
intellectual property rights
(TRIPS)
An amendment to the TRIPS Agreement making it easier for developing
countries to access affordable medicines came into force in January 2017. The
TRIPS Council continued its regular work on promoting transparency in WTO
members’ intellectual property systems and reviewed the implementation
of the TRIPS Agreement. It also discussed access to medicines, biodiversity,
patentability of life forms and technical cooperation, among other topics.

TRIPS and public health
On 23 January 2017, an amendment to the TRIPS Agreement
entered into force, securing for developing countries a legal
pathway to access affordable medicines under WTO rules.
It is the first time since the launch of the WTO in 1995 that
an WTO accord has been amended. The amendment came
into force after the protocol containing it was accepted by the
necessary two-thirds of WTO members.
Unanimously adopted by WTO members in 2005, the protocol
amending the TRIPS Agreement makes permanent a
mechanism to ease poorer WTO members’ access to
affordable generic medicines produced in other countries.
The amendment allows generic versions of patented medicines
to be produced under compulsory licences (i.e. without the
consent of the patent owner) exclusively for export to countries

Background on TRIPS
Intellectual property rights have become a key part
of the debate about economic development and
broader public policy questions, such as innovation
and public health. The Agreement on Trade-Related
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) is the
most comprehensive international treaty governing
the protection, administration and enforcement of
intellectual property rights. The Council for TRIPS,
a body open to all WTO members and observers,
administers the TRIPS Agreement, provides a forum
for debate on policy issues and reviews the intellectual
property legislation of individual WTO members.

that cannot manufacture the needed medicines themselves or
not in sufficient quantities.
“This is an extremely important amendment. It gives legal
certainty that generic medicines can be exported at reasonable
prices to satisfy the needs of countries with no pharmaceutical
production capacity, or those with limited capacity. By doing
so, it helps the most vulnerable access the drugs that meet
their needs, helping to deal with diseases such as HIV/AIDS,
tuberculosis or malaria, as well as other epidemics,” said
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo.
“The entry into force of the TRIPS amendment is a milestone
in the WTO’s comparatively short history,” said the Chair
of the TRIPS Council, Ambassador Modest Jonathan
Mero of Tanzania.
WTO members who are yet to accept the TRIPS amendment
currently have until end December 2017 to do so. In the
meantime, a 2003 waiver decision granting access to
affordable medicines from third-country sources continues to
apply to these members.
In 2016, the Council also discussed a report by the UN
Secretary-General High-Level Panel on access to medicines
at the request of Brazil, India, China and South Africa. These
members highlighted key recommendations made in the report,
including a call for respect of the 2001 Doha Declaration on
TRIPS and Public Health and full use of TRIPS flexibilities for
access to medicines. The 2001 declaration stated that the
TRIPS Agreement “does not and should not prevent members
from taking measures to protect public health”.
Discussions among WTO members also covered other
recommendations, including on rigorous definitions of invention
and criteria for the granting of patents that are “sensitive”

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

78

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

An amendment to the TRIPS Agreement
entered into force on 23 January 2017
The amendment eases poorer WTO members’ access to medicines by allowing generic versions
of patented medicines to be produced under compulsory licences (i.e. without the consent of the
patent owner) for export to countries that cannot manufacture the needed medicines themselves.

Five things you need to know about the TRIPS amendment

3.

Law making can sometimes be slow
but patience pays off. WTO members
first agreed to ease access to generic
medicines for countries lacking
production capacity in 2003. Two years
later, this decision was transformed into
a permanent amendment to the WTO’s
IP rules. The amendment finally entered
into force in 2017 after two-thirds of
WTO members had accepted it.

2003

2.

The amendment is entirely driven by
public health concerns. African countries
played a major role in bringing about
this change.
Implementation
and monitoring

1.

It is the first time since the WTO
was created in 1995 that WTO rules
have been amended.

4.

The compulsory licence system
for the export of medicines has been
used once so far. A Canadian company
exported HIV/AIDS medicine to Rwanda
in 2008 and 2009. Efforts to make
the amendment work effectively in the
future and to deliver concrete results are
under way.

2017

5. The amendment came into force

once Burkina Faso, Liechtenstein,
Nigeria, the United Arab Emirates
and Viet Nam submitted their
instruments of acceptance in
January 2017, bringing the total
number of acceptances over the
threshold of two‑thirds of the WTO
membership, the number needed to
bring the amendment into effect.

The rate of acceptances increased
significantly over the past two years,
with 36 WTO members having
submitted their instruments of
acceptance since the start of 2015.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

79

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
to public health. Members also discussed cooperation by
international organizations to support governments applying
such criteria, including training for patent examiners as well as
legislation that facilitates the granting of compulsory licences.
Some members highlighted the importance of innovation to
promoting global health and the key role of IP protection in
driving medical innovation, and expressed their concern over
the narrow perspective of the panel report.
During 2016, the issue of TRIPS and public health continued
to be addressed in various technical cooperation activities
organized by the WTO Secretariat in collaboration with the
World Health Organization and the World Intellectual Property
Organization. The annual WTO workshop on trade and public
health was held in Geneva in October and covered a wide
range of topics, including the interface between health, trade
and IP, the economics of innovation and access to health
technologies, pricing and procurement policies, competition
policy and rules, health services and the WTO’s Trade
Facilitation Agreement. Thirty-five government officials from 30
developing countries and five developed countries attended
the workshop.
The three organizations hosted their sixth trilateral technical
symposium in October. The symposium on antimicrobial
resistance reviewed how to foster access to, and appropriate
use, of antibiotics and innovation. The misuse of antibiotics
can lead to the evolution of more resistant pathogens, posing
a major risk to public health systems, participants heard.
The issue of antimicrobial resistance has attracted growing
global attention. In September 2016, a UN High‑Level
Meeting on Antimicrobial Resistance committed world leaders
to curbing the spread of infections that are resistant to
antimicrobial medicines.

Union and will neither target patent infringements nor
pharmaceutical products.
Under the Council’s review of national implementing legislation,
the European Union and the United States introduced their
respective new legislation on the protection of trade secrets.
They highlighted the importance of trade secrets to the
fostering of innovation, encouraging exchange of knowledge
and promotion of economic growth. Their presentations were
complemented by brief overviews of relevant legislation in
Canada, Japan, New Zealand and Chinese Taipei.
Trade secrets include formulas, processes, technological
know-how, commercial data and other information.
For the United States, protecting trade secrets is essential
for maintaining the competitive edge of US business.
The European Union noted that trade secrets are often used
by small companies that do not have the resources to formally
file patents.
Based on the notifications received, the Council completed
reviews of TRIPS implementing legislation of Fiji and Tajikistan
and initiated reviews of the legislation of Seychelles and
Kazakhstan, both of which acceded to the WTO in 2015
and agreed to apply the TRIPS Agreement as of the date of
their accession.

Promoting transparency
Transparency in national IP systems is a key principle of TRIPS.
It helps the TRIPS Council monitor the implementation of
the TRIPS Agreement, to reduce trade tensions and to build
productive trading relationships among WTO members.
TRIPS notifications provide a unique body of information
and are an important transparency mechanism. In 2016,
15 WTO members notified the Council of more than
100 pieces of legislation, which reflect evolving policy needs
and technological, social and commercial development in
these jurisdictions.
In June 2016, the European Union notified the Council of
its trademark reforms, which aim to give businesses more
effective protection. Five members — Brazil, India, South
Africa, China and Indonesia — expressed concerns about the
impact of the new directive. They said they are concerned the
new trademark regime could result in possible restrictions
on legitimate shipments of goods, including essential
medicines in transit. The European Union replied that the
trademark provisions are limited to the use of trademarks
that are identical with a trademark registered in the European

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

80

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Plants, animals, biodiversity and
traditional knowledge
The Council continued to deliberate a cluster of issues dealing
with the patentability of plant and animal inventions and the
protection of plant varieties, the relationship between the
TRIPS Agreement and the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) and the protection of traditional knowledge and folklore.
Two issues remained at the forefront: whether the TRIPS
Agreement should be amended to prohibit the patentability
of life forms; and whether – and, if so, how – TRIPS should
do more to promote the CBD objective of equitably sharing
the benefits that arise from the use of genetic resources and
associated traditional knowledge.
Views continued to diverge on whether to amend the TRIPS
Agreement to oblige WTO members to require patent
applicants to disclose the source or the country providing
genetic resources and associated traditional knowledge that
form the basis for an invention.

Incentives for technology transfer
In October 2016, the Council, in its regular session, undertook
the 14th annual review of reports provided by developed
countries on the incentives they give for the transfer of
technology to LDCs. The TRIPS Agreement requires
developed countries to provide such incentives. In 2003,
the Council, fulfilling a directive of the 2001 Doha Ministerial
Conference, established a review mechanism to monitor
this obligation.
The WTO Secretariat organized a ninth annual workshop to
enhance LDCs’ understanding of the reports and to enable
LDCs and developed countries to have an open and frank
dialogue about the operation of these incentives. On behalf of
the LDC Group, Ambassador Eloi Laourou (Benin) recognized
that some developed countries had defined “transfer of
technology” in their reports, and indicated that this was a
technical concept which encompassed the transfer of IP, ideas
and technology.
In the discussion on IP and innovation, LDCs called for the
implementation of Article 66.2 to foster the transfer of green
technology, since LDCs are particularly vulnerable to climate
change. LDCs have long pushed for this article, laying out the
obligation for developed countries to provide incentives for
technology transfer to be made more effective.

TRIPS non-violation and situation disputes
In 2016, WTO members continued to discuss the application
of so-called non-violation and situation complaints but without
narrowing their differences over whether such disputes should
be permitted under the TRIPS Agreement, whether there is
a need to establish the scope and ground rules (modalities)
for such complaints, and whose task it would be to propose
possible elements for the scope and modalities.
In general, WTO disputes can be brought not only if an
agreement or commitment has been violated but also if an
expected benefit under an agreement has been nullified,
even without any violation of the letter of the agreement.
However, for disputes over intellectual property protection,
the TRIPS Agreement prescribed a five-year moratorium
on initiating such “non-violation and situation complaints”.
This moratorium has been repeatedly extended by ministerial
conferences. Most recently, the Tenth Ministerial Conference
in Nairobi in 2015 recommended the Council to continue
examining the scope and modalities for these disputes and to
make recommendations to the next ministerial conference.

Technical cooperation and
capacity building
The Council was updated on IP technical cooperation by
developed countries, other intergovernmental organizations
and the WTO Secretariat. The Secretariat continued to focus
on assisting WTO members and observers to understand the
rights and obligations which flow from the TRIPS Agreement
and relevant decisions of WTO bodies to enable them to meet
their developmental and other domestic policy objectives.
The WTO and WIPO jointly delivered two advanced technical
assistance courses for government officials and university
teachers in March and June in Geneva. The aim was to
strengthen the capacity of developing-country participants to
monitor and participate in international IP developments and to
make informed assessments of IP policy issues. Over the past
decade, the two courses have trained about 280 IP teachers
and about 170 government officials.
In November, the WTO Secretariat organized a workshop
on supporting least-developed countries (LDCs) in making
effective use of intellectual property rights in advancing their
national economic and social development goals.

Innovation
In 2016, the Council discussed three new topics as part of
its series on “intellectual property and innovation”, which has
been requested by several WTO members on an ad hoc basis
since 2012. The topics included IP education and diffusion,
sustainable resource and low-emission technology strategies,
and regional innovation models.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

81

Implementation
and monitoring

The Council continued its work on the e-TRIPS project.
This aims to improve the timeliness and completeness of
TRIPS notifications and other relevant information flows and to
provide an enhanced information service for WTO members.

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
In March, WTO members shared detailed information on
IP education as an innovation accelerator which benefits
both innovators and users. The Council turned in June
to discussing the role of IP in sustaining innovation
and contributing to environmentally friendly growth and
development. The discussion was linked to the broader
policy context, notably the Paris Agreement on climate
change and the implementation of the UN 2030 Sustainable
Development Goals.
In its meeting of November, the Council discussed regional
innovation models. Many members, including the European
Union, Australia, Switzerland, Japan, the United States, Brazil
and Canada, shared their experiences in setting up regional
innovation hubs and collaborating across borders.

and guidelines. The Council resumed discussions on IP and
e-commerce, initially on the basis of a request by Canada.
The Council discussed how to develop concrete themes
which could guide its work on e-commerce during 2017.
During 2016, Canada shared its national experience of an
enforcement initiative against the sale of counterfeit products
over the Internet. Brazil made a submission on copyright
implementation in the digital environment, which would
be examined in 2017. The Council is expected to make a
substantive contribution to the periodic review of e-commerce
that the General Council will conduct and report to the next
Ministerial Conference in December 2017.

Other issues
E-commerce
At the Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in 2015,
members decided to continue work under the Work
Programme on E-Commerce, based on their existing mandate

No new proposals emerged from the reviews, mandated under
the TRIPS Agreement, of the Agreement as a whole (the “71.1
review”). The Council’s work on the incentives for technology
transfer to LDCs and on “non-violation and situation
complaints” is discussed on page 81.

Trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights (TRIPS)
www.wto.org/trips

82

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Trade and environment

Climate change and trade

Reform of fossil fuel subsidies

The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) briefed the Committee on the main features of the
2015 Paris Agreement, which sets out a global action plan to
avoid dangerous climate change by limiting global warming
to below 2°C, and the status of climate change discussions.
Several WTO members highlighted the importance of the
Agreement and called for coherence between trade and
climate policies.

On behalf of the Friends of Fossil Fuel Subsidy Reform – an
informal group of non-G20 countries – New Zealand drew
attention to a communiqué on reform of fossil fuel subsidies
issued at the UNFCCC conference in Paris. The communiqué
called on the international community to increase efforts
to phase out subsidies to fossil fuels by promoting policy
transparency, ambitious reform and targeted support for
the poorest.

Brazil, Chile, China, Mexico and Singapore presented their
respective national climate action plans, known officially
as Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs).
Chinese Taipei described its experience with renewable
energy and other policies related to climate change.

New Zealand also drew attention to the commitment to
rationalize inefficient fossil fuel subsidies contained in
the Addis Ababa Action Agenda, a global action agenda
for financing sustainable development adopted in 2015,
and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal 12
(see page 40).

Citing the need for coherent policies, Korea, Canada, Costa
Rica, Mexico and Chinese Taipei submitted a joint proposal
to deepen the understanding of the relationship between
trade and climate change. Their proposal is to take stock of
discussions taking place at the WTO and other international
organizations to deepen WTO members’ understanding of
trade policy’s potential contribution to addressing climate
change. Several delegations expressed support for the
proposal. However, some expressed concerns and suggested
that climate change discussions are better left to other fora.

Several WTO members acknowledged the importance of
the reform of fossil fuel subsidies, shared their experiences,
and supported continued discussions in the Committee.
However, several other members said that reform of fossil fuel
subsidies has no link to the WTO; they were of the view that
the WTO is not the appropriate venue to discuss such matters.

SDG 12 calls for sustainable
consumption and production
and environmentally sound
management of chemicals and
wastes throughout their life cycle.

Background on trade and environment
Sustainable development and protection and
preservation of the environment are fundamental
goals of the WTO. The Committee on Trade and
Environment is responsible for examining the
relationship between trade and the environment.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

83

Implementation
and monitoring

In 2016, the Committee on Trade and Environment discussed a broad range of traderelated environmental issues, including climate change, reform of fossil fuel subsidies,
chemicals and waste management, wildlife trade, forestry and fisheries. The Committee
was also updated on the WTO environmental database, the environmental provisions
in regional trade agreements and the Environmental Goods Agreement negotiations.

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Some WTO members
have stressed the
need to prohibit
certain forms of
fisheries subsidies
which contribute to
over-capacity and
over-fishing, and to
eliminate subsidies
that contribute to
illegal, unregulated
and unreported fishing.

Chemicals and waste management
Following a request from several developing countries,
the Committee discussed chemicals and waste management,
with a focus on discarded electronics or “e-waste”.
The Secretariat of the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm
(BRS) conventions, which all aim to protect human health and
the environment from the harmful effects of chemicals and
hazardous waste, made a presentation on its work. Executive
Secretary, Rolph Payet, informed WTO members of BRS work
regarding the management and recycling of e-waste.
The United Nations Industrial Development Organization
(UNIDO) presented its work on the sustainable management
of e-waste and the main barriers to e-waste treatment,
particularly for developing countries. Chile, Canada and
Chinese Taipei shared their domestic practices and regulations
on waste management.

Wildlife trade
The Committee was briefed by the Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES)
about recent developments, including decisions taken to
combat illegal trade in wildlife and to improve the sustainability,
legality and traceability of trade in wildlife at its conference of
parties in Johannesburg in October 2016.
The European Union presented its Action Plan against Wildlife
Trafficking, adopted in 2016, which sets out a roadmap for the
EU strategy against wildlife trafficking until 2020. The United
States updated delegations on the work of its Presidential Task

Force on Wildlife Trafficking, including the National Strategy
for Combatting Wildlife Trafficking issued in 2014.

Forestry
Canada presented its forest and forest product governance
and regulations as well as its legislation to enforce CITES in
Canada and to control imports of non-CITES species obtained
illegally. In addition to domestic experiences, the Committee
was also briefed by the International Tropical Timber
Organization on activities related to forest law enforcement
and cooperation with CITES.

Fisheries
The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) shared findings
from the 2016 State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture
report, which highlights the role of fisheries in food security
and provides information on fish trade. WTO members showed
interest in the findings and some stressed the need to prohibit
certain forms of fisheries subsidies (see page 42) which
contribute to over‑capacity and over‑fishing, and to eliminate
subsidies that contribute to illegal, unregulated and unreported
(IUU) fishing.

Environmental provisions in RTAs
Several WTO members spoke about environmental provisions
in regional trade agreements (RTAs). Canada shared its
experience in negotiating and implementing environmental

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

84

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Negotiations on an
Environmental Goods
Agreement are taking
place among 46 WTO
members, with the
aim of slashing tariffs
on a variety of
environmental goods.

The European Union noted that the rationale for including
environmental provisions in RTAs is rooted in the recognition
that environmental policies are an integral part of sustainable
development. Chile, Korea, Switzerland and Chinese Taipei
shared their experiences with environmental provisions
in RTAs.
The WTO Secretariat made a presentation on environmental
provisions in RTAs notified to the WTO, based on a WTO
staff working paper published in August 2016. The analysis
covers 270 RTAs in force and notified between 1957 and May
2016. Environmental exceptions along with environmental
cooperation continue to be the most common types of
environment-related provisions in the RTAs.

WTO environmental database
The WTO Secretariat presented an updated version of
the Environmental Database and highlighted key trends in
environment-related trade measures notified to the WTO.
The database, which is updated annually, contains all
environment-related notifications submitted by WTO members
as well as environmental measures and policies mentioned in
trade policy reviews (see page 92).
WTO members expressed their appreciation for the database
and suggested that it could be improved with a web‑based
interface to facilitate dissemination and ease of use.
The Secretariat noted that it is exploring such improvements
subject to the availability of resources.

Environmental goods
Australia, as chair of the Environmental Goods Agreement
(EGA) negotiations, continued to update the Committee on
progress. The EGA is being negotiated by 18 participants,
representing 46 WTO members (see page 41).

Implementation
and monitoring

provisions in free trade agreements and said that the key
principle it follows is to promote mutual supportiveness
between trade opening and environmental protection.
New Zealand gave a presentation on the implementation
of environmental provisions in its RTAs, providing concrete
examples of bilateral cooperation under its agreements.

Other topics
Ecuador told WTO members that the current multiplicity
of organic agricultural certificates creates a market
access barrier, particularly for small producers. It said it
supports giving preferential tariff treatment for organic
products because this will create incentives for production,
promote sustainable consumption and contribute to global
environmental protection.
Australia briefed delegations on a workshop on “The WTO and
Agenda 2030”, jointly organized by Mexico, Indonesia,
the Republic of Korea, Turkey and Australia in October 2016.
The workshop explored the history and content of Agenda
2030 as it relates to trade and featured detailed discussions of
selected areas of Agenda 2030 relevant to WTO work.

MEAs and other international organizations
The Committee continued to serve as a platform to inform
WTO members about the latest developments in multilateral
environmental agreements (MEAs) and other international
organizations. In 2016, this included briefings by the United
Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) on its work related
to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, including initiatives
to promote synergies between trade and environment policies.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

85

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

In June, a panel
discussion was held
as part of an advanced
course on trade and
the environment coorganized by the WTO
and the Grantham
Institute, Imperial
College London.

UNEP also briefed delegations on the second United Nations
Environmental Assembly (UNEA-2), held in May 2016, and the
deal adopted under the Montreal Protocol in October 2016 to
curb the use of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), a major contributor
to climate change. The agreement, reached in Kigali, caps and
reduces the use of HFCs gradually, starting in 2019.
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) presented a report on “trading into sustainable
development: trade, market access, and the Sustainable
Development Goals”. The Organisation for Economic
Co‑operation and Development (OECD) presented a working
paper on how stringent but well-designed environmental
policies in a country tend to encourage the development and
exports of environmentally friendly goods and services.

Technical assistance and outreach
In 2016, the WTO organized a two-week advanced course
on trade and environment. A session on “unlocking trade
for clean energy technology” was jointly delivered with the
Grantham Institute of Imperial College, London, as part of the
course. Speakers at the event discussed how trade can help
bring climate technology solutions to where they are needed
most and thereby help countries around the world achieve
sustainable development.
Trade and environment training was also delivered as part of
the WTO’s Geneva-based and regional trade policy courses,
and through the e-learning platform.
The WTO collaborated with UNCTAD and the International
Trade Centre in an event held at the UNFCCC Conference of
the Parties (COP22), in Marrakesh, Morocco, in November.
The main message was that trade can play an important role
in addressing climate change and helping countries meet their
commitments to the Paris Agreement.

Trade and environment
www.wto.org/environment

86

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Trade and transfer of
technology
The Working Group on Trade and Transfer of Technology continued to analyse the
relationship between trade and transfer of technology. It heard a presentation by
Chinese Taipei on its experience with technological innovation and its transfer. WTO
members also continued to discuss a submission by India, Pakistan and the Philippines
on “facilitating access to information on appropriate technology sourcing”.

Implementation
and monitoring

Discussions in the Working Group on Trade and Transfer of
Technology highlighted the importance of technology and
technical know-how for improving productivity, promoting
export growth and supporting economic growth in developing
and least-developed countries. WTO members reiterated a call
to share national experiences, particularly if members have
undergone rapid development in recent years. It was
underlined that such experience-sharing would help
technology-deficient countries make more informed choices in
support of growth.
Chinese Taipei shared its experience with innovation,
technology generation and its transfer. It emphasized that the
key to building a sound technological base is the existence of a
comprehensive technology policy that encourages institutional
development and investment flows and that establishes
linkages between all stakeholders. The presentation showed
how Chinese Taipei had used technology transfer to help
St Lucia improve its capacity to tackle Black Sigatoka Disease,
a leaf disease affecting banana plants.
Discussions also highlighted the crucial role played by
supportive governmental policies, finance, investment
flows, research and development, educational institutes,
human resources and infrastructure development in
technology transfer.

Background on trade and transfer
of technology
The Working Group on Trade and Transfer of
Technology was established at the Doha Ministerial
Conference in 2001 “to examine the relationship
between trade and transfer of technology and to
make recommendations on steps that might be
taken, within the mandate of the WTO, to increase
flows of technology to developing countries”.

During 2016, WTO members continued to discuss a
submission by India, Pakistan and the Philippines entitled
“Facilitating access to information on appropriate technology
sourcing – A step to increase flows of technology to
developing countries”. The proponents suggested that the
Working Group should recommend the establishment of a
dedicated WTO webpage on technology transfer, which could
serve as a one-stop-shop on technology-related issues.

Trade and transfer of technology
www.wto.org/developmentnegs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

87

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Regional trade agreements
The Committee on Regional Trade Agreements (CRTA) began discussing the
implications of RTAs for the multilateral trading system, as called for by the Tenth
Ministerial Conference in Nairobi. In 2016, the WTO received 22 notifications
of RTAs, up from 16 in 2015. The notifications involved 11 new RTAs. The Asia
Pacific region and the Americas notified the highest number – five each. The WTO
launched a new book on RTAs and their relationship with the WTO’s rules.

22

Notifications
Of the 11 regional trade agreements (RTAs) notified to
the WTO in 2016 (counting goods and services together),
eight included both goods and services provisions while
three included goods provisions only. In contrast to 2015,
when most of the agreements were between developing
and developed trading partners, only three of the RTAs were
between developed and developing partners, while eight RTAs
were between developing partners only.
WTO members reached a new milestone with the notification
in June 2016 of an RTA between Japan and Mongolia. Before
then, Mongolia had been the only WTO member that was not
party to an RTA. Members from the Asia Pacific region and the
Americas were involved in five RTAs each. Other RTAs involved
members from Europe, the Commonwealth of Independent
States, Africa and the Middle East. Three of the agreements
covered members from two different regions and eight covered
members from one region.

In 2016, the WTO received
22 notifications of RTAs,
up from 16 in 2015.

The notifications took the number of RTAs notified to the WTO
by 31 December 2016 to 643, of which 431 were in force (see
Figure 13). RTAs include free trade agreements and customs
unions. Under WTO rules, the goods and services aspects of
RTAs, as well as accessions to existing RTAs, must be notified
separately and thus are counted separately. However, if all
three elements are counted together, the 643 notifications
involved 464 individual RTAs, of which 271 were in force.
Some 83 RTAs had not been notified to the WTO as of
31 October 2016. Committee Chair Ambassador Daniel
Blockert (Sweden) also told the Committee in November
that he had consulted with delegations involved in RTAs for
which data submissions are incomplete and hoped they will
soon provide missing information so that the Secretariat can
complete factual presentations of these RTAs.

Background on regional trade agreements
The Committee on Regional Trade Agreements
(CRTA) monitors all regional trade agreements
(RTAs) notified to the WTO, except those notified
under special provisions for agreements between
developing countries (the Enabling Clause), which
are considered by the Committee on Trade and
Development. The CRTA examines RTAs individually
and considers their systemic implications for the
multilateral trading system. Following the notification
of the RTA between Mongolia and Japan in June
2016, all WTO members now have an RTA in
force (some belonging to as many as 30).

Monitoring RTAs
All RTAs, regardless of whether they are notified under Article
XXIV of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT)
1994, the Enabling Clause between developing countries
(for trade in goods), or Article V of the General Agreement on
Trade in Services (GATS) (for trade in services), are subject to
the provisions and procedures of the transparency mechanism.
The mechanism provides specific guidelines on when a
new RTA should be notified to the WTO Secretariat and the
related information and data to be provided. It also requires
the Secretariat to prepare a factual presentation on each

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

88

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Figure 13: All RTAs notified to the GATT/WTO (1948 to 2016) by year of entry into force
105

700

100

643

95
600

90
85
80
75

500
431

65
60

400

55
50
45

271

300

40
35
30

Cumulative number

Number per year

70

200

25
20
15

100

10
5
0

16

14

Implementation
and monitoring

20

12

20

10

20

08

20

06

20

04

20

02

20

00

20

98

20

96

19

94

19

92

19

90

19

88

19

86

19

84

19

82

19

80

19

78

19

76

19

74

19

72

19

70

19

68

19

66

19

64

Notifications of RTAs in force
Notifications of inactive RTAs

19

62

19

60

19

58

19

56

19

54

19

52

19

50

19

19

19

48

0

Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force and inactive RTAs
Cumulative notifications of RTAs in force
Cumulative number of physical RTAs in force

Note: Notifications of RTAs: goods, services & accessions to an RTA are counted separately. Physical RTAs: goods, services & accessions to an RTA are counted together.
The cumulative lines show the number of notifications/physical RTAs that were in force for a given year.
Source: WTO Secretariat.

RTA, and that each RTA be reviewed by WTO members.
On 14 December 2016, the WTO marked the 10th anniversary
of the mechanism, which has reviewed 143 RTAs involving
106 WTO members over the past decade.
The General Council established the transparency mechanism
on a provisional basis in 2006. In Nairobi in December 2015,
ministers called on WTO members to work towards making the
mechanism permanent.
The Chair said that, based on his consultations, there is less
commitment from members for possible negotiations about a
permanent review mechanism although certain members had
stressed that the issue remains important. For the mechanism
to be adopted on a permanent basis, members need to review,
and if necessary, modify it as part of the overall results of the
Doha Round. The Negotiating Group on Rules started the
review in 2011 (see page 42). Members are also required to
review the legal relationship between the mechanism and
relevant WTO provisions on RTAs.
Agreements notified under Article XXIV of the GATT 1994
and Article V of the GATS are considered by the Committee
on Regional Trade Agreements (CRTA) while agreements
notified under the Enabling Clause (see page 88) are
considered by a dedicated session of the Committee on

Trade and Development (CTD), using the Secretariat’s factual
presentation as the basis for consideration (see Table 2).
WTO members are required to inform the WTO Secretariat of
any changes to a notified agreement and to provide a report
once an agreement is fully implemented. In the interests of
transparency, they are also encouraged to inform the
Secretariat of any agreements currently being negotiated or
those that have been signed but are yet to enter into force
(so‑called early announcements).
Notified agreements already in force are considered by
the CRTA or the CTD, normally within a year of the date
of notification. In 2016, the CRTA held four meetings and
considered 29 notifications of RTAs, counting goods, services
and accessions separately, compared with 19 in 2015 and 42

643
By end-2016, the WTO had
received 643 notifications
of RTAs since 1995, of
which 431 were in force.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

89

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Table 2: Regional trade agreements
considered in 2016
1. Considered in the CRTA:
Canada – Republic of Korea (goods and services)
Japan – Australia (goods and services)
EFTA – Colombia (goods and services)

The CRTA also discussed the provision of end-ofimplementation reports. Most RTAs are implemented over a
transition period and the transparency mechanism requires
RTA parties to submit a short written report on how the
liberalization commitments are put into effect. Seven such
reports were submitted in 2016. The reports are important for
understanding whether RTAs accomplish what they set out to
do. The Chair noted that implementation reports had been due
for 129 RTAs as of 11 March 2016 but only seven had been
received during the year.

EFTA – Bosnia and Herzegovina (goods)
Republic of Korea – Australia (goods and services)
Canada – Honduras (goods and services)
Russian Federation – Serbia (goods)
Dominican Republic and Central America (Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua) (goods and services)
Dominican Republic, Central America (Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras and Nicaragua) and the United States (goods and services)
United States – Panama (goods and services)
Chile – Viet Nam (goods)
Republic of Korea – New Zealand (goods and services)
European Union – Bosnia and Herzegovina (services)
Iceland – China (goods and services)
Australia – China (goods and services)
India – Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) (services)
EFTA – Central America (Costa Rica and Panama) (goods and services)
2. Considered in the CTD:
Mauritius – Pakistan (goods)
MERCOSUR – India (goods)
Note: The table refers to 19 agreements, twelve of which covered both goods and
services, five covered only goods and two only services.

in 2014. The CTD held two dedicated sessions on RTAs and
considered two RTAs notified under the Enabling Clause.
The transparency mechanism also requires the WTO
Secretariat to prepare “factual abstracts” on RTAs examined
by the CRTA prior to their entry into force. By the end of 2016,
72 factual abstracts of agreements currently in force had been
prepared in consultation with the relevant RTA parties and
posted in the RTA database.
In addition, five “early announcements” of RTAs were received
from WTO members in 2016, two for newly signed RTAs not yet
in force and three for RTAs under negotiation. As of December
2016, the WTO had received 103 early announcements. Sixtythree of these had subsequently been notified to the WTO
following entry into force of the agreements.

Impact of RTAs on the multilateral
trading system
New RTAs are becoming increasingly comprehensive,
with provisions for market opening in services and other areas,
such as investment, competition policy, trade facilitation,
government procurement, intellectual property, electronic
commerce and, in some cases, labour and the environment.
Most agreements are bilateral, giving rise to an increasingly
complex regime of trade regulations. Critics argue that these
overlapping trade regimes make international trade more
complex and undermine WTO non-discrimination principles.
Proponents of RTAs argue that regional trade regimes can lay
the groundwork for future multilateral rules. They also allow
members wishing to move faster than others in opening their
markets to do so within WTO rules.
Although RTAs are by nature discriminatory, discrimination
against non-parties can be reduced if the agreements
are open and parties allow accession by third parties to
existing agreements.
Enlargement and consolidation of existing agreements is
proposed by new RTAs, such as the Pacific Alliance between
Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Peru, which already have bilateral
agreements among themselves. Other examples include the
Regional Closer Economic Partnership Agreement between
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and six
other regional partners, and the Tripartite Agreement between
26 African partners, which will bring together three existing
regional economic communities.
Other “behind the border” commitments, such as legislative
reform (for example, a new competition or environment law)
can also be non-discriminatory and beneficial for all trading
partners. Research by the WTO Secretariat based on RTAs
notified since 2000 shows that around 60 per cent of these
agreements contain trade-opening commitments for both
goods and services. In addition, over half contain rules on
investment, government procurement, competition, sanitary
and phytosanitary (SPS) measures, technical barriers to trade,
trade defence measures and intellectual property rights.
Some RTAs also include other issues, such as environmental
and labour standards and electronic commerce, which are not
yet covered by the WTO rules.
The Nairobi Ministerial Declaration of December
2015 reaffirmed the need to ensure that RTAs remain

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta

90

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

complementary to and not a substitute for the multilateral
trading system. It instructed the CRTA to discuss the systemic
implications of RTAs for the multilateral trading system and
their relationship with WTO rules.
At a CRTA meeting in September, the Chair said members
appeared ready to start such discussions. These will be
geared towards the sharing of information and experience
rather than reaching any formal conclusion, he added. “Many
have made it clear to me that this is a priority for them and
I have yet to encounter any members who are against this,”
he said.
The Chair noted, however, that there is less clarity on the
type of systemic discussion desired by members. Several
delegations said they are willing to engage in systemic
discussions of a thematic nature. Some members said that
any discussion of systemic issues had to take RTA rules as the
starting point. The issue of dealing with improving members’
compliance with the current transparency mechanism was also
raised as an important systemic issue.

New publication
A new publication on RTAs and how they can potentially
affect WTO rules was launched at the WTO’s Public Forum in
September. “Regional Trade Agreements and the Multilateral
Trading System”, edited by Rohini Acharya, Chief of the
RTA Section, and authored by staff of the WTO Secretariat,
examines provisions contained within these trade deals to see
to what extent they reflect or diverge from the WTO’s legal
texts. The book uses what is perhaps the largest dataset yet on
RTAs to increase understanding of whether RTAs are creating
new standards that are different from the WTO’s and the
possible implications of this.

RTA database
All the information on RTAs notified to the WTO is contained
in a publicly accessible database. This includes links to
the official texts and annexes as well as information on the
examination or consideration process in the WTO. For those
RTAs that have already been the subject of a factual
presentation, the database also contains the relevant trade and
tariff data.

Regional trade agreements
www.wto.org/rta
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

91

Implementation
and monitoring

A new publication on
RTAs was launched
at the Public Forum
in September.

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade Policy Reviews
In 2016, the Trade Policy Review Body (TPRB) reviewed the trade policies and practices
of 23 WTO members. By the end of 2016, the TPRB had conducted 452 reviews
since its establishment in 1989, covering 153 of the 164 WTO members. During
the year, members agreed further reforms to the trade policy review mechanism,
including adjusting the frequency of undertaking trade policy reviews.

Trade Policy Reviews
Of the 23 WTO members reviewed in 2016, two – Ukraine
and the Russian Federation – underwent the process for
the first time. The other members reviewed were Georgia,
Morocco, Fiji, Turkey, Maldives, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
Malawi, Honduras, Albania, United Arab Emirates, Zambia,
Tunisia, China, Singapore, El Salvador, the Republic of Korea,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Sri Lanka, Guatemala,
Solomon Islands and the United States. The dates of the
reviews and the members covered are shown on the map on
pages 94-5.
The United States is the most reviewed member, having
been reviewed 13 times. It is followed by: Japan and the
European Union – 12 times; Canada – 10 times; Hong Kong
(China), Australia, the Republic of Korea and Thailand – seven
times; Malaysia, Norway, Singapore, Indonesia, Switzerland,
Brazil, China, Turkey and India – six times; and Mexico,
Chile, New Zealand, Morocco and South Africa – five times.
Twenty-eight members have been reviewed four times and
42 members three times.

Background on Trade Policy Reviews
The Trade Policy Review Mechanism aims at
encouraging all WTO members to adhere to WTO
rules. Through its regular Trade Policy Reviews,
the mechanism enables members to collectively
examine the trade policies and practices of individual
members in all trade-related areas. The four largest
trading entities (currently the European Union,
the United States, China and Japan) are reviewed
every two years, the next 16 largest every four years,
and other members every six years, with a longer
cycle for least-developed countries. Reviews are not
intended to serve as a basis for the enforcement of
obligations or for dispute settlement procedures.

23
The WTO reviewed the trade policies and
practices of 23 WTO members in 2016.

Three members opted for the alternative timeline for the
submission of written questions and replies for their TPR
meetings in 2016. The alternative timeline was introduced at
the fourth appraisal of the Trade Policy Review Mechanism
(TPRM) in 2011. It requires members to submit questions four
weeks before a meeting and requires the reviewed member to
submit written responses one week in advance.
Digital audio files (podcasting) were used in 16 of the 23 TPR
meetings in 2016, namely for Georgia, Morocco, Fiji, Turkey,
Ukraine, Malawi, Honduras, Albania, United Arab Emirates,
Zambia, Tunisia, China, Singapore, the Republic of Korea,
Sri Lanka and the United States. The audio files are accessible
to members but not to the public. As of 2017, the podcasting
option will be discontinued in line with a decision of the sixth
TPRM appraisal in 2016. The seven-minute rule for members’
interventions continued to work satisfactorily.
Printed versions of each trade policy review are available
as WTO publications. These include the report by the
WTO Secretariat, the report by the member under review,
the concluding remarks by the Chair of the TPRB and a key
trade facts section.

Trade Policy Reviews
www.wto.org/tpr

92

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

Sixth Appraisal of the TPRM

Trade Policy Review programme for 2017

The sixth appraisal of the TPRM was completed in December
2016. Members agreed on reforms to further improve the
review of members’ trade policies and practices and the
monitoring of the trading environment. One decision was to
adjust the frequency with which members are reviewed to
ensure the continued effectiveness of reviews amid the rising
number of WTO members. Currently, members undergo a TPR
every two, four or six years, depending on their share in world
trade. Beginning in 2019, they will be reviewed every three,
five or seven years, respectively.

Sixteen TPR meetings are scheduled to be held in 2017 for
24 members (counting the European Union as one). They are
Sierra Leone, Japan, Mozambique, Mexico, Belize, Switzerland
and Liechtenstein, Nigeria, Brazil, the European Union,
Jamaica, Paraguay, Iceland, the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
Cambodia, the Gambia and the West African Economic
and Monetary Union members, i.e. Benin, Burkina Faso,
Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Niger, Senegal and Togo.

Members also agreed to revise the timeline for the questionand-answer process. Members under review will have
one additional week to provide written answers to other
members’ questions. Members also noted efforts by the WTO
Secretariat to develop an information technology system to
better manage the question-and-answer process. To enhance
the transparency of trade policies, it was agreed that members
will provide brief reports on significant changes in their policies
during trade monitoring meetings. The next appraisal is due not
later than 2021.

Implementation
and monitoring

TPR follow-up workshops
After a trade policy review, the reviewed member can ask the
Secretariat to organize a follow-up workshop with domestic
stakeholders to discuss the outcome. In 2016, four follow-up
workshops – for Botswana (a member of the Southern African
Customs Union), El Salvador, Guyana and Madagascar –
were conducted, building on the success of the Myanmar and
Pakistan follow-ups.

Trade Policy Reviews
www.wto.org/tpr
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

93

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade Policy Reviews
in 2016
The WTO conducted 23 trade policy reviews in 2016. The dates of the reviews and
the WTO members covered are shown on the map. Further information, including the
Chair’s concluding remarks for each review, can be found on the WTO website.

Tunisia
United States
of America

13 and 15 July 2016

19 and 21 December 2016

Morocco
2 and 4 February 2016

Guatemala
16 and 18 November 2016

Democratic
Republic of
Congo
25 and 27 October 2016

El Salvador
14 and 16 September 2016

Zambia
Honduras

21 and 23 June 2016

2 and 4 May 2016

Malawi
27 and 29 April 2016

Trade Policy Reviews in 2016
www.wto.org/tpr

94

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

Albania

Ukraine

Georgia

Turkey

11 and 13 May 2016

19 and 21 April 2016

19 and 21 January 2016

15 and 17 March 2016

Russian
Federation
28 and 30 September 2016

Implementation
and monitoring

Albania
China
Democra
the Cong
El Salvad
Fiji
Georgia
Guatema
Hondura
Republic
Malawi
Maldives
Morocco
Russian
Kingdom
Singapor
Solomon
Sri Lanka
Tunisia
Turkey
Ukraine
United A
United St
Zambia

Republic of
Korea
11 and 13 October 2016

China
20 and 22 July 2016

Sri Lanka
1 and 3 November 2016

Singapore
26 and 28 July 2016

Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia

United Arab
Emirates

Maldives

Solomon Islands

Fiji

4 and 6 April 2016

1 and 3 June 2016

21 and 23 March 2016

13 and 15 December 2016

23 and 25 February 2016

Trade Policy Reviews in 2016
www.wto.org/tpr
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

95

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring

Trade monitoring reports
Trade monitoring reports showed a slight decrease in the number of new trade-restrictive
measures introduced by WTO members. The WTO revised downwards its trade forecasts
for 2016, predicting the slowest pace of trade and output growth since the financial crisis
of 2009. The monitoring reports underscore the need for WTO members to work together
to ensure that the benefits of trade are spread more widely and are better understood.

The WTO Secretariat prepared four reports on global trade
policy developments during 2016.

Trade monitoring summary for 2016
The number of new trade-restrictive measures introduced
monthly by WTO members fell between mid‑October 2015
and mid-October 2016.

“In the context of a challenging economic scenario, it is more
important than ever that WTO members adopt policies which
will support trade and ensure that its benefits reach as many
people as possible,” Director-General Roberto Azevêdo said
on presenting his annual overview of trade developments.
Figure 14: Trade-restrictive measures, (average per month)*
(Average per month)
2009

WTO members applied 182 new trade-restrictive measures
during the 12-month period, an average of 15 measures per
month. While this represented a reduction in the monthly figure
compared to the recent peak of 20 measures per month in
2015, it was actually a return to the trend level for new trade
restrictions since 2009. It also remained significantly below the
monthly average of trade-facilitating measures (see Figures 14
and 15) – a consistent trend over the past couple of years.
The 182 new measures accounted for US$ 101.2 billion of
world merchandise imports during the review period.
The number of new trade-restrictive measures being introduced
remains a concern against the backdrop of the continuing
global economic uncertainty. The WTO’s downward revision of
its trade forecasts, predicting for 2016 a 1.7 per cent growth,
down from the 2.8 per cent forecast previously, marks the
slowest pace of trade and output growth since the financial
crisis of 2009.

13

2010

14

2011

23

2012

14

2013

15

2014

14

2015

20

Mid-Oct. '14 to mid-Oct. '15

15

Mid-Oct. '15 to mid-Oct. '16

15

0

5

10

15

20

25

* Excluding trade remedies.
Note: Values are rounded.
Source: WTO Secretariat.

Figure 15: Trade-facilitating measures, (average per month)*
(Average per month)
2009

Background on trade monitoring reports
In early 2009, the WTO began regular monitoring
of global trade developments, covering all traderelated measures implemented by WTO members
and observers. Initially launched in the context of
the global financial and economic crisis, the trade
monitoring exercise has become a regular function in
the WTO that further strengthens the transparency
aims of the Trade Policy Review Mechanism by
providing comprehensive information on recent
trade policy changes. The trade monitoring is
overseen by the Trade Policy Review Body.

11

2010

18

2011

23

2012

18

2013

14

2014

17

2015

22

Mid-Oct. '14 to mid-Oct. '15

19

Mid-Oct. '15 to mid-Oct. '16

18

0

5

10

15

20

* Excluding trade remedies.
Note: Values are rounded.
Source: WTO Secretariat.

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

96

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

25

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

The trade-facilitating measures recorded by the reports
included the first measures implemented in the context
of the expanded Information Technology Agreement (ITA)
(see page 70). The trade-facilitating measures recorded were
valued at US$ 248.9 billion of world merchandise imports.
The trade coverage value of the ITA expansion measures
was not included, as it would distort any comparison with
previous reports.
Of the 2,978 trade-restrictive measures recorded for WTO
members since 2008, 740 had been removed by mid-October
2016. The rollback of trade-restrictive measures recorded
since 2008 remains slow and continues to hover just below
25 per cent.
Trade remedy measures (anti-dumping actions, countervailing
duties and safeguard measures) made up almost 47 per cent
of all trade-related measures in the review period, up from
43 per cent in the previous annual report.
Out of the 347 trade remedy measures recorded, 257,
or almost three-quarters, were anti-dumping actions.
More initiations were recorded than terminations.
The reports underscore the importance of WTO members
working together to ensure that trade remains open and to
ensure that the benefits of trade are spread more widely and
are better understood.
Adequate information on behind-the-border measures,
including regulatory measures and subsidies, is still lacking.
Various types of non-tariff measures, such as technical or
health regulations and product standards, have increasingly
been the subject of debate in WTO bodies. The 2016
monitoring reports, with a view to increasing transparency,
continue to include a section providing a brief overview of
trade concerns raised by WTO members in formal meetings of
various WTO bodies during the reporting period.

Some consider that these types of measures have become
more prominent in recent years, compared with conventional
border measures, and that there is a paramount need to
increase the quality of available information. To deliver on this
and enhance understanding of the operation and effects of
non-tariff measures on trade, the reports encourage WTO
members to provide greater transparency in this area.
The WTO trade monitoring exercise contains a unique
verification process, which provides WTO members with the
opportunity to update and correct information included in the
monitoring reports and subsequently submitted to the Trade
Policy Review Body. The ability of these reports to provide
information on overall trends in trade policy measures depends
on the participation and cooperation of all members. Although
the increase in the number of members participating in the
preparation of reports is encouraging, a large number still do
not take part.
The monitoring reports include several other important
trade-related developments that took place during 2015-16.
These included new initiatives in regional trade agreements
(RTAs), developments in the Trade Facilitation Agreement
(TFA) and in government procurement, electronic commerce
and the new biennial Aid for Trade programme. The reports
also drew attention to the changing technological landscape
and to the increasing significance of intellectual property in
economic development.

WTO trade monitoring – A unique process
The purpose of the WTO trade monitoring reports is to
enhance the transparency of trade policy developments and
to provide WTO members and observers with an up-to-date
picture of trends in the implementation of trade-restricting
as well as trade-liberalizing measures, particularly in times of
economic crisis when restrictive pressures tend to surge.
Preparing the trade monitoring reports is an ongoing
activity, which relies on continuous dialogue and exchange
of information across divisions within the WTO Secretariat.
The core of this information stems from formal notifications by

“The multilateral trading system helps to provide vital stability in global economic
relations. The clearest example of this came after the financial crisis of 2008.
That crisis posed a major challenge to the multilateral trading system – and
it passed the test. We did not see a significant rise in protectionism, and we
certainly did not see a repeat of the 1930s. The share of world imports covered
by import-restrictive measures implemented since October 2008 is just 5 %. Of
course it could be even lower – but it shows that the WTO did its job.”
DG Azevêdo

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

97

Implementation
and monitoring

WTO members also applied 216 measures aimed at facilitating
trade during the review period. Although the average of
18 trade-facilitating measures per month in the latest period
was slightly down from 19 per month in the previous report,
it remained above the 2009-2015 average.

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
WTO members, formal publication of new legislation and other
public sources, including media reports.
However, the most important element in collecting trade
policy information for the reports is the close and continuous
consultation between the WTO Secretariat and WTO
members, which seeks to gather complete, up-to-date and
accurate information on their trade-related measures and
to verify the relevant information collected from other public
sources. In preparation for each report, the Director‑General
writes to all WTO members and observers inviting them to
provide the WTO Secretariat with information on recent
trade-related measures as well as general economic
support measures.
The WTO Secretariat collates all recorded country-specific
information on trade measures and re-submits this information
to each WTO member for verification. This verification process
is a unique feature of the WTO’s monitoring efforts and

represents a quality control mechanism, allowing members to
check the accuracy of the information before it is made public.
The trade monitoring reports are subsequently discussed at
meetings of the WTO’s Trade Policy Review Body.

Database
The Trade Monitoring Database, which is publicly available,
provides information on trade measures implemented by
WTO members and observers and includes various search
criteria options, e.g. country or country group, HS code,
type of measure, date of measure. Members are regularly
invited to update all existing information compiled by the WTO
Secretariat since 2008 so as to facilitate an evaluation of the
extent of “rollback” of such measures. The database is updated
once a new report has been discussed by WTO members.

Trade monitoring reports
www.wto.org/trademonitoring

98

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

Trade, debt and finance
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo highlighted the need to address persistent gaps in
trade financing for small businesses in developing countries and met heads of partner
institutions to discuss how to tackle the problem. A new WTO publication looks at
how those gaps might be addressed. The Expert Group on Trade Finance continued
to evaluate gaps in trade finance markets, especially in the poorest countries.

Some 80-90 per cent of world trade relies on trade finance
(trade credit and insurance/guarantees). During the worst of the
financial and economic crisis in 2008-09, many companies,
especially smaller enterprises in both developed and developing
countries, found it impossible or prohibitively expensive to obtain
the credit they needed to trade. The global financial system has
since reduced its size and, by focusing on existing clients,
has exercised greater selectivity in lending to small and
medium‑sized enterprises (SMEs) and in trade lending and
guarantees to developing countries.
“Trade Finance and SMEs” looks at why the gap between
supply and demand reached US$ 1.4 trillion in 2015,
according to an extensive survey by the Asian Development
Bank and the International Chamber of Commerce. Other
surveys, such as those from the African Development Bank and

Background on trade, debt and finance
WTO ministers decided in Doha in 2001 to
establish a Working Group on Trade, Debt and
Finance to look at how the WTO could contribute
to finding a durable solution to the external debt
problems of many developing countries and to
avoid having WTO members’ trade opportunities
undercut by financial instabilities. The Working
Group has been focusing its attention on a range of
financial issues with an impact on trade, including
the provision of trade finance and, more recently,
the relationship between exchange rates and trade.

90%
Some 80-90 per cent of
world trade relies on trade
finance (trade credit and
insurance/guarantees).

the World Economic Forum, confirm that the lack of affordable
trade finance remains one of the top three obstacles for firms
in developing countries wishing to export.
Not all the financing gap is the outcome of a failure by markets
to acknowledge the low-risk character of trade financing.
The surveys also highlight the fact that SMEs in developing
countries typically offer less collateral, guarantees and credit
history than larger, more established companies. They also
have less access to the largest banks. Even when liquidity is
abundant, it may not always be available to them. The poorer
the country, the greater the challenges faced by SMEs in
accessing trade finance. Local financial institutions supporting
them may be smaller, less internationalized, or less advanced
in terms of risk management. In many such countries, and in
some large regions, access to know-how and skills in handling
trade finance instruments is also a challenge.
Following the 2009 financial crisis, the appetite of international
banks for investing in developing countries has been limited.
Some 57 per cent of trade finance requests by SMEs are
rejected, against only 10 per cent for multinational companies,
according to the Asian Development Bank survey. The lack
of trade finance can be a powerful barrier to trade and for the
integration of countries into the global trading system.
The publication looks at how the WTO could work with
partners to enhance existing trade finance facilitation
programmes operated by multilateral development banks,
address knowledge gaps in local financial institutions by
increasing capacity building provided by both the private
and public sector, foster dialogue with regulators and better
monitor trade finance gaps. Members of the Working Group on
Trade, Debt and Finance (WGTDF) supported this approach.

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

99

Implementation
and monitoring

The Director-General continued to highlight the need to
address persistent gaps in trade finance provision in 2016,
following up on previous interventions, including at the Third
UN Financing for Development Conference in Addis Ababa in
July 2015. A WTO publication, “Trade Finance and SMEs”,
published in May 2016, took a detailed look at the gap in trade
financing for developing countries. It considered potential
steps to help deal with the issue, such as bolstering existing
trade finance programmes, enhancing the trading capacity of
developing countries and improving communication between
all parties involved in trade finance.

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
Members were eager to have further in-depth discussions
in the WGTDF, notably on new methods of financing trade,
such as supply-chain financing and digital trade, and ways in
which micro and small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs)
could be covered by the discussions and proposals on
trade finance.
In recent years, a network of trade finance facilitation
programmes has been established in almost all multilateral
development banks, including the International Finance
Corporation (IFC, part of the World Bank Group),
the Asian Development Bank, the African Development
Bank, the Inter‑American Development Bank, the Islamic
Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. These programmes support roughly
US$ 30 billion in (small) trade transactions in the poorest
countries. The Director-General continues to work with these
partners to address problems in trade finance provision.

Expert Group on Trade Finance
Established after the Asian financial crisis in the late
1990s, the Expert Group on Trade Finance brings together

representatives of the main players in trade finance, including
the IFC, regional development banks, export credit agencies
and big commercial banks as well as the International
Chamber of Commerce and other international organizations.
Under the chairmanship of the Director‑General, the Expert
Group continued to evaluate gaps in trade finance markets,
especially in the poorest countries. One approach to filling
these gaps has been for multilateral development banks to
expand trade finance facilitation programmes in the regions
where they operate (see above).

Strengthening cooperation with other IGOs
The WTO cooperates closely with the IMF and the World
Bank on the issue of trade finance. The Director‑General,
IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde and World
Bank Group President Jim Yong Kim met on 7 October to
emphasize that the benefits of trade must be spread more
widely. They took part in a joint event entitled “Making Trade
an Engine of Growth for All”, held at the IMF’s headquarters in
Washington, D.C. The three leaders discussed the importance
of making a credible and balanced case for trade.

Trade, debt and finance
www.wto.org/debtfinance

100

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

Government Procurement
Agreement
Ukraine and Moldova joined the Agreement on Government Procurement (GPA)
in 2016. Good progress was made on the accessions of Australia, the Kyrgyz
Republic and Tajikistan while discussions continued on China’s accession.
Russia applied to join the GPA. Phase II of the e-GPA web portal was completed,
providing a single entry point for market access information. The WTO
Secretariat continued to provide technical assistance to developing countries
and strengthened its partnerships with other international organizations.

The GPA is a plurilateral agreement within the WTO
framework. Any WTO members interested in joining can apply
for membership based on terms to be agreed with the existing
GPA parties. Accession negotiations include a review by
existing parties of the candidate’s legislative, regulatory and
policy frameworks to ensure full compliance with the GPA and

Background on the Government
Procurement Agreement
The WTO Agreement on Government Procurement
(GPA) ensures that signatories do not discriminate
against the products, services or suppliers of other
parties to the GPA with respect to the government
procurement opportunities that are opened to foreign
competition. The GPA also requires transparent and
competitive purchasing practices in the markets
covered. The GPA is a plurilateral agreement, meaning
that it applies only to those WTO members that
have agreed to be bound by it. The Committee on
Government Procurement administers the GPA.

47

40

42

43
45

38

40

30

20

41

27

28

23

negotiations on market access commitments, i.e. the elements
of the candidate’s procurement market that will be opened up
to international competition. The past decade has witnessed
the steady growth of GPA membership (see Figure 16).
Work on the GPA accessions of Australia, the Kyrgyz Republic
and the Republic of Tajikistan moved ahead in 2016. Australia’s
accession process began in 2015 and the Committee hopes
that the negotiations can be concluded in 2017. Australia told
the Committee its latest market access offer would open a
procurement market to parties valued at over A$ 100 billion
(US$ 70 billion) at the federal, state and local levels. The GPA
accession negotiations of the Kyrgyz Republic were resumed
in 2016 after being inactive for several years. Intensive
discussions on this accession were carried out in 2016

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

101

Implementation
and monitoring

GPA membership
50

9
19 6
9
19 7
9
19 8
9
20 9
0
20 0
0
20 1
0
20 2
0
20 3
0
20 4
0
20 5
0
20 6
0
20 7
0
20 8
0
20 9
1
20 0
1
20 1
1
20 2
1
20 3
1
20 4
1
20 5
16

Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova completed their
accession processes and became parties to the GPA in May
and July 2016 respectively, bringing the total number of WTO
members covered by the GPA to 47. For both countries,
the substantive work on their accessions was concluded in
around three years – from the circulation of the initial market
access offer in Ukraine’s case and the resumption of active
negotiations in late 2012 in the case of Moldova. The two
accessions are expected to encourage other WTO members in
Eastern and Central Europe to come forward.

Figure 16: Growth in GPA membership, 1996-2016

19

Accessions to the GPA

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

Implementation and monitoring
based on market access offers and proposed amendments
to the Kyrgyz Republic’s public procurement law. Hopes
have been expressed that the remaining minor issues can be
resolved quickly.
Good progress was made on Tajikistan’s accession in
2016. Since the initiation of its accession process in 2015,
Tajikistan has circulated four market access offers for
consideration by the Committee together with a draft law
on public procurement. While some pending issues need to
be addressed, the GPA Committee hopes to conclude this
accession in 2017.
Constructive discussions continued on China’s accession,
possibly paving the way for the country to submit a revised
offer on market access in 2017. The GPA parties reiterated
that China’s accession, on the appropriate terms, will be a
matter of great significance for the Agreement, for the WTO
and for the world economy. Russia submitted an application
for accession, honouring a commitment it undertook in its
WTO accession protocol. Its initial offer on market access is
expected to be circulated in 2017.
Government procurement accounts for about 15 per cent
of gross domestic product in developed and developing
countries. Only a part of this is currently covered by the GPA.
The Agreement aims to open as much as possible of the global
procurement market to international trade and competition
while ensuring appropriate transparency and a commitment to
good governance. Kazakhstan was granted observer status
under the GPA in October 2016, bringing the number of
observers to 29.

Monitoring of implementation
and legislation
The revised Agreement on Government Procurement (adopted
by the parties in 2012) came into force for the Republic of
Korea in January 2016, 30 days after the country submitted
its instrument of acceptance. The revised Agreement is now
in force for all but one of the parties, Switzerland. The latter
hopes to accept the revised Agreement in 2017 when internal
legislative procedures have been completed to harmonize its
procurement legislation at the federal and cantonal levels.
The revision extends GPA coverage to approximately 500
additional procurement entities, including local government
and sub-central entities, together with new services and
other areas of public procurement activities. It creates market
access gains of US$ 80-100 billion or more annually. The text
of the Agreement has been streamlined and modernized to
include, for example, standards related to the use of electronic

procurement tools. The GPA’s role in promoting good
governance and battling corruption has been strengthened.
The revised GPA gives developing countries important
flexibilities to manage their transition to a more internationally
competitive government procurement regime. It reinforces
the scope provided by the original Agreement to promote
the conservation of natural resources and to protect
the environment through the application of appropriate
technical specifications.
The Committee adopted a decision on procedures to resolve
disagreements when a party wishes to modify its agreed
market access commitments. The decision lays out procedures
and timelines to appoint arbitrators, organize substantive
meetings, make determinations and implement decisions.
The Committee advanced its discussions under work
programmes focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises,
the collection and reporting of statistical data, sustainability
in international procurement, and exclusions and restrictions
in parties’ schedule annexes. The work programmes are
intended to promote transparency with respect to parties’
implementation of the Agreement, to improve its administration
and to assist preparations for future negotiations.
The revised GPA calls for further negotiations to improve
the Agreement and to progressively reduce and eliminate
discriminatory measures.
The WTO launched an enhanced version of its e-GPA web
portal. The e-GPA provides a single entry point for market
access information under the revised Agreement together with
related information that parties have committed to provide.
The portal offers improved transparency, with the aim of better
publicizing the market access opportunities available under
the Agreement. New features include an advanced search tool
and the possibility to access relevant information published
in parties’ domestic jurisdictions, such as tender notices and
national legislation. Further improvements to the portal are
envisaged. These include a module to handle notifications of
statistical data and to facilitate access to such data.

Technical assistance and cooperation with
other intergovernmental organizations
The WTO Secretariat carried out regional workshops, tailored
national seminars and Geneva-based activities in response
to heightened interest in the revised GPA. In Central and
Eastern Europe, the Secretariat continued its cooperation with
the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in
providing technical assistance. This cooperation has greatly
facilitated the accession of countries to the GPA and reform

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa

102

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

of their national procurement systems. Collaboration has also
been strengthened with other international organizations,
including the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development, the World Bank and other regional
development banks.
In Central and Eastern Europe, the provision of technical
assistance has been greatly facilitated by the WTO
Secretariat’s cooperation with the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Collaboration

with other international organizations is also increasing.
In September 2015, the Secretariat updated the Committee
on its ongoing discussions with the World Bank to achieve
greater synergies on government procurement issues. A new
procurement framework, approved by the Bank’s Executive
Board in 2015, refers to GPA accession as one path that
World Bank countries can use to put into place legislation
which may also be acceptable to the World Bank for its
own purposes.

Implementation
and monitoring

Figure 17: Market coverage, members and observers
of the Government Procurement Agreement

Parties to the GPA: 19 parties
(counting the European Union and its member states as one).
New members in 2016: Republic of Moldova and Ukraine.
WTO members in the process of GPA accession: Albania, Australia, China,
Georgia, Jordan, Kyrgyz Republic, Oman, Russian Federation and Tajikistan.
Other observer countries: Argentina, Kingdom of Bahrain, Cameroon, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Rica, India, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Malaysia, Mongolia,
Pakistan, Panama, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Thailand,
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and Viet Nam.

1.7 trillion
19 WTO members (counting the
European Union and its member
states as one) are parties to
the Government Procurement
Agreement, giving them access
to a US$ 1.7 trillion market.

Government Procurement Agreement
www.wto.org/gpa
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

103

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
	 WTO members brought 17 new disputes to the
WTO’s dispute settlement system in 2016.
	 Out of the 520 trade disputes brought to the WTO since
1995, the largest number of disputes has been brought by
the United States (112) and the European Union (97).
	 Two new members were appointed to the WTO’s
seven-member Appellate Body in 2016.

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

106

Appellate Body

115

Dispute
settlement

Dispute settlement activity in 2016

Background on dispute
outreachsettlement
WTO
The
WTO
members
maintains
bringregular
disputes
dialogue
to the WTO if
with non‑governmental
they
think their rights under
organizations,
trade agreements
parliamentarians,
are
being infringed.
other
Settling
international
disputes is the
organizations,of
responsibility
the
the
media
Dispute
andSettlement
the generalBody.
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Dispute settlement activity
in 2016
The WTO’s dispute settlement system had its busiest year so far, averaging 22 cases
per month where active proceedings are under way. These are cases where a panel
or arbitration has been composed and where preparations are ongoing for the
finalization of a panel, arbitration or Appellate Body report. The Dispute Settlement Body
(DSB) received 17 requests for consultations, the first step in the dispute settlement
process, and established eight new panels. The dispute settlement system began to
benefit from measures introduced to address the increasing workload it faces.

During 2016, the dispute settlement system began to feel the
benefit of measures introduced by Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo to address the challenge of the mounting number of
disputes being brought by WTO members. One of those steps
was to reallocate vacant posts to the legal divisions
(see page 168) and to ensure adequate staffing for trade
remedy cases, which are a particularly active area for disputes.
As of 31 December 2016, the WTO’s Rules Division, which
handles trade remedy and subsidies disputes, was fully staffing
all its disputes. This was achieved principally by recruiting
more lawyers (added to those already recruited in recent years)
and by greater assignment flexibility.
Some 520 trade disputes have been brought by WTO
members since the organization was established in 1995
(see Table 1). Two-thirds of the WTO membership has
participated in the system in one way or another. The disputes

Background on dispute settlement activity
The General Council convenes as the Dispute
Settlement Body (DSB) to deal with matters concerning
disputes between WTO members. Such disputes may
arise with respect to any agreement contained in the
Final Act of the Uruguay Round that is subject to the
Understanding on Rules and Procedures Governing the
Settlement of Disputes (DSU). The DSB has authority
to establish dispute settlement panels, refer matters to
arbitration, adopt panel, Appellate Body and arbitration
reports, maintain surveillance over the implementation
of recommendations and rulings contained in such
reports as adopted by the DSB, and authorize
suspension of concessions in the event of noncompliance with those recommendations and rulings.

520
Some 520 trade disputes have
been submitted to the WTO
for settlement since 1995.
address a wide range of trade concerns and often touch
upon global issues, such as human health, renewable energy,
conservation of natural resources and, more recently, money
laundering and tax evasion (see Figure 1).
“We have to acknowledge that such success and trust from
WTO members also presents challenges, including of an
administrative nature. We will continue to work together — the
Appellate Body members, the Secretariat and WTO member
countries — to respond to these challenges,” DG Azevêdo
said in an address to members in January 2017. “Recourse to
the dispute settlement system has ensured adherence to
negotiated rules, thereby helping to provide security and
predictability in international trade,” he said.

22
The WTO’s dispute settlement
system had its busiest year so
far, averaging 22 active panel,
arbitration and Appellate Body
proceedings per month.

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes

106

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

Table 1: WTO members involved in disputes, 1995 to 2016
Complainant

Respondent

Member

Complainant

Respondent

Antigua and Barbuda

1

0

Malaysia

1

1

Argentina

20

22

Mexico

23

14

Armenia

0

1

Moldova, Republic of

1

1

Australia

7

15

Morocco

0

1

Bangladesh

1

0

Netherlands

0

3

Belgium

0

3

New Zealand

9

0

Brazil

30

16

Nicaragua

1

2

Canada

35

18

Norway

4

0

Chile

10

13

Pakistan

5

3

China

15

38

Panama

7

1

Colombia

5

5

Peru

3

5

Costa Rica

5

0

Philippines

5

6

Croatia

0

1

Poland

3

1

Cuba

1

0

Portugal

0

1

Czech Republic

1

2

Romania

0

2

Denmark

1

1

Russian Federation

4

7

Dominican Republic

1

7

Singapore

1

0

Ecuador

3

3

Slovak Republic

0

3

Egypt

0

4

South Africa

0

5

El Salvador

1

0

Spain

0

3

European Union

97

83

Sri Lanka

1

0

France

0

4

Sweden

0

1

Germany

0

2

Switzerland

4

0

Greece

0

3

Chinese Taipei

6

0

Guatemala

9

2

Thailand

13

4

Honduras

8

0

Trinidad and Tobago

0

2

Hong Kong, China

1

0

Turkey

3

9

Hungary

5

2

Ukraine

5

3

India

23

24

United Kingdom

0

3

Indonesia

10

14

United States

112

129

Ireland

0

3

Uruguay

1

1

Italy

0

1

Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

1

2

Japan

23

15

Viet Nam

3

0

Korea, Republic of

17

16

Dispute
settlement

Member

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

107

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Which WTO members initiated disputes
in 2016?
2016 was an active year for the initiation of disputes,
with 17 requests for consultations, up from 13 in 2015
(see Figure 2). Developing country members made nine of
the requests (up from seven) and were respondents in ten
consultation requests (see Table 2).
Brazil launched three requests for consultations – against
Indonesia, Thailand and the United States. Canada requested
consultations with the United States concerning the imposition
of countervailing measures on supercalendered paper. China
initiated two disputes, one with the European Union and the
other with the United States. The European Union requested
consultations with China on the export duties imposed on raw
materials and with Colombia concerning measures imposed on
imported spirits.
India initiated two disputes with the United States,
one concerning non-immigrant visas and another concerning
measures relating to the renewable energy sector. Japan also
launched two disputes, one with Korea concerning antidumping measures on pneumatic valves and another with India
regarding measures on imports of iron and steel products.
Turkey requested consultations with Morocco on anti-dumping
measures on hot-rolled steel. This is Turkey’s third request
for consultations and its first since 2003. Ukraine requested
consultations with Russia on certain restrictions.
Figure 1: WTO agreements* referred to in requests for
consultations, 1995-2016 (number of times)

Figure 2: Disputes filed by WTO members, and panels
established by the DSB, 1995 to 2016.
25

1995

5
39

1996

11
50

1997

15
41

1998

13
30

1999

20
34

2000

11
23

2001

15
37

2002

11
26

2003

19
19

2004

7
12

2005

8
20

2006

12
13
11

2007

19

2008

3
14

2009

10
17

2010

6
8
9

2011
10 DSU
4 GPA
7 Rules of Origin
24 GATS
17 Customs Valuation

WTO 44

27

2012

Accession Protocol 29
TRIMS 42

11
20

2013

12

TRIPS 34
Import Licensing 47
Safeguards 48

5 Preshipment
Inspection

SPS 43
TBT 50

2014

14
13

2015

13
15
16*

2016

8

0
Agriculture 76
414 GATT 1994

SCM 111

Anti-Dumping 117

* GATS: General Agreement on Trade in Services; GATT 1994: General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994; GPA: Agreement on Government
Procurement; SCM: Subsidies and Countervailing Measures; SPS: Sanitary and
Phytosanitary Measures; TBT: Technical Barriers to Trade; TRIMS: Trade-Related
Investment Measures; TRIPS: Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
Rights; WTO: Agreement Establishing the World Trade Organization.

10

20

30

40

50

60

Disputes filed
Panels established by DSB
* A request for consultations was received on 20 December 2016 but was not
circulated to the membership until January 2017. It is therefore not included in
the total number of disputes filed in 2016.

The United States requested consultations with China on three
different matters: export duties on raw materials, domestic
support provided to agricultural producers, and China’s
administration of its tariff-rate quotas, including those for
wheat, rice and corn.
Five consultation requests relating to compliance were filed
in 2016.

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes

108

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Table 2: Requests for consultations in 2016
Title

DS No.

Complainant

Date of initial
request

Agreements cited

Status as of 31
December 2016

Colombia – Spirits

DS502

European Union

13 January 2016

General Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) 1994

Panel established, but
not yet composed

United States – Measures Concerning
DS503
Non-Immigrant Visas

India

3 March 2016

General Agreement on Trade in
Services (GATS)

In consultations

Korea – Pneumatic Valves

DS504

Japan

15 March 2016

GATT 1994
Anti-Dumping Agreement (ADP)

Panel composed

United States – Supercalendered
Paper

DS505

Canada

30 March 2016

GATT 1994
Agreement on Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures (SCM)

Panel composed

Indonesia – Measures Concerning the
DS506
Importation of Bovine Meat

Brazil

4 April 2016

GATT 1994
Agreement on the Application of
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
(SPS)
Agreement on Import Licensing
In consultations
Procedures (Licensing)
Agreement on Technical Barriers to
Trade (TBT)
Agreement on Agriculture (Agriculture)

Thailand – Subsidies on Sugar

DS507

Brazil

4 April 2016

GATT 1994
Agriculture
SCM

In consultations

China – Raw Materials II (US)

DS508

United States

13 July 2016

GATT 1994

Panel established, but
not yet composed

China – Raw Materials II (EU)

DS509

European Union

19 July 2016

United States – Certain Measures
Relating to the Renewable Energy
Sector

DS510

India

9 September 2016

GATT 1994
Agreement on Trade-Related
Investment Measures (TRIMs)
SCM

In consultations

China – Domestic Support for
Agricultural Producers

DS511

United States

13 September 2016

Agriculture
GATT 1994

In consultations

Russia – Measures concerning Traffic
in Transit

DS512

Ukraine

14 September 2016

GATT 1994

In consultations

Morocco – Anti-Dumping Measures
on Certain Hot-Rolled Steel from
Turkey

DS513

Turkey

3 October 2016

ADP
GATT 1994
Licensing

In consultations

United States – Countervailing
Measures on Cold- and Hot-Rolled
Steel Flat Products from Brazil

DS514

Brazil

11 November 2016

GATT 1994
SCM

In consultations

United States – Measures Related to
Price Comparison Methodologies

DS515

China

12 December 2016

GATT 1994
ADP

In consultations

European Union – Measures Related
to Price Comparison Methodologies

DS516

China

12 December 2016

GATT 1994
ADP

In consultations

China – Tariff Rate Quotas for Certain
Agricultural Products

DS517

United States

15 December 2016

GATT 1994
Accession Protocol

In consultations

India – Certain Measures on Imports
of Iron and Steel Products

DS518

Japan

20 December 2016

GATT 1994
Agreement on Safeguards

In consultations

Accession Protocol

Panel established, but
not yet composed

Dispute
settlement

GATT 1994

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

109

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Table 3: Active appeals and panels as of 31 December 2016
Title

WT/DS No.

Complainant Third Parties

Dates of panel
establishment and
composition or appeal

EC and Certain
member States
– Large Civil
Aircraft

DS316 (Art. 21.5)

United States

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Korea, and Japan

13 October 2016
(date of appeal)

DSU

US – Large Civil
Aircraft

European
Union

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan, Korea, and
Russia

23 October 2012
(panel established)

DSU

DS353 (Art. 21.5)

30 October 2012

SCM

21 July 2016
(panel established)

Agreement on
Implementation of
Article VII (Customs
Valuation)

Thailand –
Cigarettes
(Philippines)

DS371 (Art. 21.5)

Philippines

Australia, Canada, China, European Union, Japan,
Russia, Singapore, and United States

16 December 2016

Agreements cited

SCM

GATT 1994

GATT 1994
US – Tuna II
(Mexico)

DS381 (Art. 21.5
– US)

Mexico

US – Tuna II
(Mexico)

DS381 (Art. 21.5 –
Mexico II)

Mexico

China – Broiler
Products

DS427 (Art. 21.5
– US)

United States

DS435
Australia –
Tobacco Plain
Packaging

DS441
DS458
DS467

Cuba
Dominican
Republic
Honduras
Indonesia

22 June 2016
(panel established)

Brazil, Ecuador, European Union, and Japan

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, European Union,
Guatemala, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Japan,
Korea, Malawi, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
South Africa, Chinese Taipei, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay, United States,
Zambia, and Zimbabwe

11 July 2016

TBT

GATT 1994
TBT

22 June 2016
(panel established)

ADP

18 July 2016

SCM

GATT 1994

25 September 2013
(panel established)
26 March 2014
(panel established)

GATT 1994

25 April 2014
(panel established)

TRIPS

TBT

5 May 2014

5 October 2016

SCM

Brazil, Canada, European Union, India, Japan,
Korea, Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Chinese
Taipei, Turkey, Ukraine, and Viet Nam

18 November 2016
(date of appeal)

ADP

European
Union

Australia, Brazil, China, India, Japan, Korea, Norway,
South Africa, Chinese Taipei, and United States

23 September 2016
(date of appeal)

SPS

European
Union

Argentina, Australia, Canada, China, Columbia,
European Union, India, Japan, Korea, Russia,
Singapore, South Africa, Chinese Taipei, Turkey,
Ukraine, and United States

US – AntiDumping
Methodologies
(China)

DS471

China

Russia – Pigs
(EU)

DS475

DS497

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Ecuador, European
Union, Guatemala, Japan, Korea, New Zealand, and
Norway

27 May 2016

GATT 1994

GATT 1994

DS437 (Art. 21.5)

DS472

9 May 2016
(panel established)

21 July 2016
(panel established)

US –
Countervailing
Measures (China)

Brazil – Taxation

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Ecuador, European
Union, Guatemala, India, Japan, Korea, New
Zealand, and Norway

China

Japan

Australia, Canada, European Union, India, Japan,
Korea, Russia, and Viet Nam

17 December 2014
(panel established)
26 March 2015
28 September 2015
(panel established)

Protocol of Accession

GATT 1994
SCM
TRIMs

29 September 2015
GATT 1994
Services (GATS)
EU – Energy
Package

DS476

Russia

Brazil, China, Columbia, India, Japan, Korea, Saudi
Arabia, Ukraine, and United States

20 July 2015
(panel established)

SCM

7 March 2016

WTO (Agreement
Establishing the
World Trade
Organization)

TRIMs

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes

110

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

Title

WT/DS No.

Complainant Third Parties

Russia –
Commercial
Vehicles

DS479

European
Union

Brazil, China, India, Japan, Korea, Turkey, Ukraine,
and United States

Dates of panel
establishment and
composition or appeal

Agreements cited

20 October 2014
(panel established)

ADP

8 December 2014

GATT 1994
ADP

EU – Biodiesel
(Indonesia)

DS480

China – Cellulose
Pulp

DS483

Indonesia

Canada

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India,
Japan, Norway, Russia, Singapore, Turkey, Ukraine
and United States

Brazil, Chile, European Union, Japan, Korea,
Norway, Singapore, Uruguay and United States

31 August 2015
(panel established)

GATT 1994

4 November 2015

WTO (Agreement
Establishing the
World Trade
Organization)

10 March 2015
(panel established)

ADP

27 April 2015

GATT 1994
Agreement on
Agriculture

Indonesia –
Chicken

DS484

Brazil

Argentina, Australia, Canada, Chile, China,
European Union, India, Japan, Korea, New Zealand,
Norway, Oman, Paraguay, Qatar, Russia, Chinese
Taipei, Thailand, United States and Viet Nam

3 December 2015
(panel established)
3 March 2016

Agreement on Preshipment Inspection
GATT 1994
Import Licensing
Agreement
SPS
TBT

EU – PET
(Pakistan)

DS486

US – Tax
Incentives

DS487

Pakistan

25 March 2015
(panel established)

China and United States

13 May 2015
European
Union

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India, Japan, Korea
and Russia.

16 December 2016
(date of appeal)

GATT 1994
SCM

SCM

US – OCTG
(Korea)

Indonesia – Iron
or Steel Products
(Chinese Taipei)
(Viet Nam)

US – Coated
Paper (Indonesia)

DS488

DS490
DS496

Korea

Chinese
Taipei
Viet Nam

Canada, China, EU, India, Mexico, Russia and
Turkey

13 July 2015

Australia, Chile, China, EU, India, Japan, Korea,
Russia, Chinese Taipei, Ukraine, United States, and
Viet Nam

GATT 1994
WTO (Agreement
Establishing the
World Trade
Organization)

28 September 2015
(panel established)

GATT 1994

28 October 2015
(panel established)

Safeguards
Agreement

9 December 2015

DS491

Indonesia

EU – Poultry Meat
DS492
(China)

China

Korea –
Radionuclides
(Japan)

DS495

Japan

Korea –
Pneumatic Valves

DS504

US –
Supercalendered
Paper

DS505

Japan

Canada

Brazil, Canada, China, EU, India, Korea, and Turkey.

Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, Russia, Thailand,
and United States
Brazil, Canada, China, EU, Guatemala, India, New
Zealand, Norway, Russia, Chinese Taipei, and
United States

28 September 2015
4 February 2016
20 July 2015
(panel established)

28 September 2015
(panel established)
8 February 2016

29 August 2016

Brazil, China, EU, India, Japan, Korea, Mexico, and
Turkey

ADP
SCM

GATT 1994

3 December 2015

4 July 2016
(panel established)

Brazil, Canada, China, Ecuador, EU, Norway,
Singapore, Turkey, United States, and Viet Nam

GATT 1994

21 July 2016
(panel established)
31 August 2016

GATT 1994
SPS

ADP
GATT 1994

GATT 1994
SCM

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

111

Dispute
settlement

ADP
25 March 2015
(panel established)

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

17

Subject matter of the disputes
The requests for consultations in Table 2 show that WTO
members have brought trade concerns in many different
areas to the dispute settlement system. Several requests for
consultations on anti-dumping measures concern products
ranging from pneumatic valves to hot-rolled steel.
Panel proceedings in 2016 included a challenge to taxes
and charges imposed by Brazil in the automotive sector and
the electronics and technology industry, a challenge to EU
measures in the energy sector and a challenge to testing and
certification requirements regarding the presence of certain
radionuclides in Japanese food products imposed by Korea
after the accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant
in Japan in March 2011. Panel proceedings in Australia’s plain
packaging requirements for tobacco products are drawing to
a close.
Trade remedies disputes under way include those relating to
EU anti-dumping measures on the importation of fatty alcohols
from Indonesia, anti-dumping and countervailing measures
imposed by the United States on coated paper products from
Indonesia, and Russian anti-dumping measures imposed on
commercial vehicles from the European Union.
Compliance proceedings are ongoing in disputes involving
the United States and the European Union concerning large
civil aircraft. The panel report in the dispute initiated by the
United States concerning the European Union (EC and Certain
Member States – Large Civil Aircraft) is before the Appellate
Body. Circulation of the panel report in the dispute initiated by
the European Union (US – Large Civil Aircraft (2nd complaint))
is expected in 2017. Compliance proceedings are also under
way in Mexico’s challenge of US measures on the labelling of
tuna products.

11 panel reports and 6
Appellate Body reports were
circulated during the year.

Reports circulated or adopted by the DSB
Eleven panel reports were circulated during the year. Three of
these panel reports were appealed. Two other panel reports
circulated in 2015 were also appealed and the panel and
Appellate Body reports in these disputes were adopted in
2016. Overall, the Legal Affairs and Rules divisions worked on
32 panel/arbitration proceedings and the Appellate Body dealt
with nine appeals.
The panel and Appellate Body reports adopted in 2016
concerned anti-dumping measures on steel fasteners,
the regulation of financial services and the prevention
of harmful tax practices, measures aimed at preventing
alleged illicit trade and money laundering, anti-dumping and
countervailing measures on residential washing machines, tariff
treatment of manufactured and agricultural products, measures
relating to generation equipment for renewable energy and
anti-dumping measures on biodiesel.
Table 4 shows panel and Appellate Body reports adopted or
circulated (pending adoption) during 2016. It also lists panel
and Appellate Body reports circulated in 2015 and adopted in
2016. The table also indicates the WTO agreements that were
the subject of the disputes based on the panel and Appellate
Body reports.

Table 4: Reports circulated or adopted in 2016 (as of 31 December 2016)
Dispute

Document
symbol

EC – Fasteners
(China) (Article
21.5 – China)

WT/DS397/RW

Argentina
– Financial
Services

WT/DS453/R

Colombia –
Textiles

Russia – Pigs

Complainant

WT/DS397/AB/ China
RW

WT/DS453/
AB/R

Respondent

Third parties

European Union

Japan, United States

WT/DS475/R

Date of adoption or
circulation/ appeal

ADP

Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 12 February 2016

DSU
GATT 1994

Argentina

Australia, Brazil, China, Ecuador,
European Union, Guatemala, Honduras,
India, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
and United States

DSU

Panama

Panama

Colombia

China, Ecuador, El Salvador, European
Union, Guatemala, Honduras,
Philippines, and United States

DSU

Russia

Australia, Brazil, China, India, Japan,
Korea, Norway, South Africa, Chinese
Taipei, and United States

SPS

WT/DS461/R
WT/DS461/
AB/R

WTO agreements
covered

European Union

GATT 1994
GATS

GATT 1994

GATT 1994

Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 9 May 2016
Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 22 June 2016
Panel report
circulated on
19 August 2016
Appeal filed on
23 September 2016

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes

112

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

US – Washing
Machines

Russia – Tariff
Treatment

EC and certain
member States
– Large Civil
Aircraft (Article
21.5 – United
States)

India – Solar
Cells

Document
symbol

Complainant

Third parties

United States

Brazil, Canada, China, European Union,
India, Japan, Norway, Saudi Arabia,
Thailand, Turkey, and Viet Nam

WT/DS464/R
WT/DS464/
AB/R

Korea

WT/DS485/R

European Union

Russia

Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China,
Colombia, India, Japan, Korea, Moldova,
Norway, Singapore, Ukraine, and United
States

European Union

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Japan,
and Korea

WT/DS456/R
United States

India

US – AntiDumping
Methodologies
(China)

WT/DS473/
AB/R

WT/DS471/R

DSU
GATT 1994

Brazil, Canada, China, Ecuador
European Union, Japan, Korea, Malaysia,
Norway, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Chinese
Taipei, and Turkey

GATT 1994

GATT 1994
SCM

Date of adoption or
circulation/ appeal
Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 26 September
2016

Panel report adopted
on 26 September
2016
Panel report
circulated on
22 September 2016
Appeal filed on
13 October 2016

DSU
GATT 1994
SCM

Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 14 October 2016

TRIMs
ADP

WT/DS473/R
EU – Biodiesel

ADP

SCM

WT/DS316/RW United States

WT/DS456/
AB/R

WTO agreements
covered

Respondent

Argentina

European Union

Australia, China, Colombia, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Mexico, Norway, Russia, Saudi
Arabia, Turkey, and United States

DSU
GATT 1994

Panel and Appellate
Body reports adopted
on 26 October 2016

WTO Agreement

China

United States

Brazil, Canada, European Union, India,
Japan, Korea, Norway, Russia, Saudi
Arabia, Chinese Taipei, Turkey, Ukraine,
and Viet Nam,

US – Tax
Incentives

WT/DS487/R

EU – Fatty
Alcohols
(Indonesia)

WT/DS442/R

Indonesia

European Union

India, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Turkey,
and United States,

GATT 1994

Canada –
Welded Pipe

WT/DS482/R

Chinese Taipei

Canada

Brazil, China, European Union, Korea,
Norway, United Arab Emirates, and
United States

GATT 1994

European Union

United States

Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, India,
Japan, Korea, and Russia

GATT 1994
ADP

SCM

Panel report
circulated on
19 October 2016
Appeal filed on
18 November 2016
Panel report
circulated on
28 November 2016
Appeal filed on
16 December 2016

ADP

ADP

Panel report
circulated on
16 December 2016
Panel report
circulated on
21 December 2016

GATT 1994
Indonesia
– Import
Licensing
Regimes (New
Zealand)

WT/DS477/R

New Zealand

Indonesia

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
China, European Union, India, Japan,
Korea, Norway, Paraguay, Singapore,
Chinese Taipei, and Thailand

Agreement on
Agriculture
Import
Licensing Agreement

Panel report
circulated on
22 December 2016

Agreement on
Preshipment
Inspection (PSI)
GATT 1994

Indonesia
– Import
Licensing
Regimes (US)

WT/DS478/R

United States

Indonesia

Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
China, European Union, India, Japan,
Korea, Norway, Paraguay, Singapore,
Chinese Taipei, and Thailand

Agreement on
Agriculture
Import Licensing
Agreement

Panel report
circulated on
22 December 2016

Agreement on
Preshipment
Inspection (PSI)

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

113

Dispute
settlement

Dispute

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Implementation, compliance and arbitration
Members are given a reasonable time to implement the DSB’s
recommendations and rulings in a dispute. Where the parties
to a dispute are unable to agree on the length of time for
implementation, they may resort to arbitration. In 2016, at the
request of Panama, an arbitrator determined the reasonable
period of time for Colombia to implement the DSB’s
recommendations and rulings in the dispute “Colombia –
Textiles”. Arbitration on the implementation period in the “US –
Washing Machines” dispute, brought by Korea against US
anti‑dumping and countervailing measures, was pending at the
end of 2016.
A compliance panel is established when there is disagreement
over the existence or consistency of measures taken by a
member to comply with the recommendations and rulings of
the DSB. The conclusions made by a compliance panel may
also be challenged before the Appellate Body. During 2016,
the DSB adopted the panel and Appellate Body reports in
the compliance dispute “EC – Fasteners”, which concerned
China’s allegation that the European Union had not fully
implemented the DSB recommendations and rulings in the
dispute over EU anti-dumping measures on certain Chinese
iron or steel fasteners. As of 31 December 2016, seven
compliance proceedings were pending before panels and the
Appellate Body.
As of 31 December 2016, two arbitration proceedings were
pending concerning the appropriate level of retaliation, known
as suspension of concessions, which the DSB can authorize in
a case of non-compliance. In its dispute with the United States
concerning the labelling of tuna products, Mexico requested
authorization from the DSB to suspend concessions or other

obligations against the United States. The United States
objected to the level requested by Mexico and the matter was
referred to arbitration.
On 7 July 2016, the United States requested authorization from
the DSB to suspend concessions or other obligations, alleging
that India had failed to comply with the DSB recommendations
and rulings in “India – Agricultural Products”, which concerns
import bans imposed by India purportedly over concerns about
avian influenza. India objected to the level and the matter was
referred to arbitration.
Following adoption of the panel report in 2011 (DS404),
and the panel and Appellate Body reports (DS429) in 2015
in disputes brought by Viet Nam relating to US anti-dumping
measures on warm water frozen shrimp from Viet Nam,
Viet Nam and the United States notified the DSB on 18 July
2016 that they had reached a mutually agreed solution in
both disputes.

Translation services
Panel, Appellate Body and arbitration reports are circulated to
WTO members and the public in the WTO’s three languages
(English, French and Spanish simultaneously). Translation
of dispute settlement reports is very specialized work and
requires experienced translators. As more panel proceedings
are being completed, there is a commensurate pressure on
the WTO’s translation services. This increased workload
in disputes is in turn resulting in some delays in translation
services before reports can be circulated to WTO members
and the public.

Dispute settlement activity in 2016
www.wto.org/disputes

114

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

Appellate Body
The Appellate Body had a busy year in 2016, with eight panel reports appealed
and six Appellate Body reports circulated. In addition, an arbitration concerning
the reasonable period of time for implementation of Dispute Settlement Body
(DSB) recommendations and rulings was carried out in 2016. The DSB appointed
two new Appellate Body members, Hong Zhao of China and Hyun Chong Kim of
Korea. As of the end of 2016, the Appellate Body had circulated 144 reports.

In 2016, the Appellate Body continued with its efforts to
ensure both the high quality of its reports and the completion
of appellate proceedings as quickly as possible, despite
the increasing workload. One measure, introduced in 2015,
has been to incorporate executive summaries of written
submissions provided by appeal participants in an addendum
rather than for the Appellate Body to draft its own description
of the arguments.
The Appellate Body also considered whether limiting
the length of written submissions would enable better
management of appellate proceedings and contribute to a
more efficient use of resources. The Appellate Body initiated,
in October 2015, a process of reflection and discussion with
and among WTO members on limiting the length of the written
submission. As differing views exist among members at this
point, the Appellate Body decided not to pursue page limits on
written submissions.
On 22 November 2016, Appellate Body Chair Thomas Graham
delivered a special lecture on the state of the Appellate
Body at an event co-hosted by the World Trade Institute,
the University of Geneva Law School and the Graduate
Institute of International and Development Studies.

Background on the Appellate Body
The Appellate Body consists of seven members
appointed by the Dispute Settlement Body (DSB).
Each member is appointed for a term of four
years, with the possibility of being appointed for
one further four-year term. Three members of
the Appellate Body hear an appeal of a panel’s
ruling. Any party to a dispute may appeal the panel
report to the Appellate Body. The appeal is limited
to issues of law covered in the panel report and
legal interpretations developed by the panel.

144
As of the end of 2016,
the Appellate Body had
circulated 144 reports.
The Chair drew attention to the increase in the number and
volume of appeals. He recalled that the number of appeals,
the number of issues appealed, and the number of pages
of submissions have all grown significantly in recent years.
He urged WTO members to work with the Appellate Body to
“maintain, nurture and preserve the trust and credibility that
has been built up over the years in this dispute settlement
system, which is uniquely effective, but fragile, and which
cannot be taken for granted.”

Appointment of two new
Appellate Body members
The second four-year term of Yuejiao Zhang (China) and the
first four-year term of Seung Wha Chang (Republic of Korea)
expired on 31 May 2016. Mr Chang was not reappointed for
a second term and two processes were initiated to fill the two
vacancies. The DSB agreed, at its meeting on 23 November
2016, to appoint Hong Zhao of China and Hyun Chong Kim
of Korea (see below) as members of the Appellate Body for a
term of four years, starting on 1 December 2016.
As of 31 December 2016, the seven Appellate Body
members were:
• Ujal Singh Bhatia (India) (2011‑2019), Chair of the Appellate
Body in 2017
• Thomas R. Graham (United States) (2011-2019)
• Hyun Chong Kim (Korea) (2016‑2020)
• Ricardo Ramírez‑Hernández (Mexico) (2009‑2017)

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

115

Dispute
settlement

Increasing efficiency of appeal proceedings

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement

Members of the Appellate
Body as of 31 December
2016, from left to right:
Thomas R. Graham (Chair
of the Appellate Body in
2016), Ricardo RamírezHernández, Shree Baboo
Chekitan Servansing, Hyun
Chong Kim, Ujal Singh
Bhatia, Peter Van den
Bossche and Hong Zhao.

• Shree Baboo Chekitan Servansing (Mauritius) (2014‑2018)
• Peter Van den Bossche (Belgium) (2009-2017)
• Hong Zhao (China) (2016‑2020)

Hong Zhao (China) (2016-2020)
Hong Zhao received her bachelor and master’s degrees and
Ph.D. in Law from the Law School of Peking University in China.
She currently serves as Vice President of the Chinese Academy
of International Trade and Economic Cooperation. Ms Zhao is
also a guest professor at several universities, including the
Universities of Peking, Fudan and International Business and
Economics.

Ms Zhao has helped formulate many important Chinese
legislative acts in economic and trade areas adopted since the
1990s and has experience in China’s judiciary system, serving
as juror at the Economic Tribunal of the Second Intermediate
Court of Beijing between 1999 and 2004. She has also taught
and supervised law students on international economic law,
WTO law and intellectual property rights (IPR) at various
universities in China.

Previously, Ms Zhao served as minister counsellor in charge of
legal affairs at China’s mission to the WTO, during which time
she served as Chair of the WTO’s Committee on Trade‑
Related Investment Measures (TRIMs). She then served as
Commissioner for Trade Negotiations at the Chinese Ministry
of Commerce’s Department for WTO Affairs, where she
participated in several important negotiations on international
trade, including the Trade Facilitation Agreement negotiations
and negotiations on expansion of the Information
Technology Agreement.

In January 2017, Hong Zhao (China) was
sworn in as a member of the Appellate Body.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

116

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

Hyun Chong Kim (Korea) (2016-2020)
Hyun Chong Kim received his bachelor and master’s degrees
and Juris Doctor from Columbia University in New York.
He served as Trade Minister for Korea from 2004 to 2007,
during which time Korea negotiated free trade agreements
with more than 40 countries, including Korea’s biggest
trading partners.

Julio Lacarte‑Muró,
the first chair of
the Appellate
Body, passed
away on 4
March 2016.

As minister, Mr Kim was appointed facilitator for the services
negotiations at the WTO’s December 2005 Hong Kong
Ministerial Conference and helped Korea host the November
2005 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) leaders’
summit in Busan. He served as Korea’s Ambassador to the
United Nations from 2007 to 2008 and was elected Vice
President of the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)
in 2008, where he worked towards achievement of the
Millennium Development Goals.

Appellate Body mourns loss of
Julio Lacarte-Muró
The Appellate Body mourned the loss in 2016 of former
Appellate Body member Ambassador Julio Lacarte-Muró,
who died at home in Uruguay on 4 March 2016 at the age
of 97. Ambassador Lacarte had a sustained and profound
influence on the multilateral trading system from the time of its
origin in 1946 until the time of his death.
Having chaired the Uruguay Round negotiations on
dispute settlement and successfully gavelled the text of the
Dispute Settlement Understanding, Ambassador Lacarte
was appointed in 1995 by the newly constituted Dispute
Settlement Body as one of the original seven Appellate Body
members. He remains the only Appellate Body member
to have been nominated by a WTO member of which
he was not a citizen (nominated by Canada). “He was a
remarkable man, diplomat, and adjudicator, with a unique
place in the history of global trade cooperation,” said WTO
Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo.

Appeals

In January 2017, Hyun Chong Kim (Korea) was
sworn in as a member of the Appellate Body.

Eight panel reports were appealed in 2016 (see Figure 3
and Table 5). Six Appellate Body reports were circulated to
WTO members (see Figure 4 and Table 6). In addressing
the appeals, the Appellate Body clarified several issues of
systemic significance. These included issues arising under the
Anti-Dumping Agreement, the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade (GATT) 1994, the General Agreement on Trade in
Services (GATS), the Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
(SCM) Agreement and the TRIMs Agreement.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

117

Dispute
settlement

Between 1999 and 2003, Mr Kim was a senior lawyer in the
WTO’s Appellate Body Secretariat and Legal Affairs Division,
where he worked on cases related to IPR, services, TRIMs,
safeguards and subsidies/countervailing measures, among
others. More recently, Mr Kim oversaw patent and anti-trust
litigation with a major Korean corporation and he is currently a
professor at Hankuk University of Foreign Studies in Seoul,
where he focuses on trade law and trade policies.

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

Dispute settlement
Figure 3: Number of notices of appeal filed, 1995 to 2016
1995

Figure 4: Number of Appellate Body reports circulated,
1995 to 2016*

0

1996

1995

4

1997
1998
1999
2000

13

13

6

2007

3

2008

3

2009

2011

5
12
4

2010

9

1

2011

5

2013

9

2006

2008

2012

5

2005

5
4

2010

6

2004

10

2009

9

2003

5

2007

10
9

2002

2005
2006

10

2001

6

2004

7

1999
2000

9
7

2003

6

1998

9

2001

2

1997

8

2002

0

1996

6

7

2012

2

2014

13

2015
2016

9

2013

2

8

2014

8

8

2015

8

2016
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

6

14
0

2

4

6

8

10

12

14

* Some Appellate Body reports were issued as a single document covering two or
more reports.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody

118

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

Table 5: Appeals filed in 2016
Other appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an other
appeal

Panel reports appealed

Date of appeal

Appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an appeal

Colombia – Textiles

22 January 2016

Colombia

WT/DS461/6

No other appeal

-

US – Washing Machines

19 April 2016

United States

WT/DS464/7

Korea

WT/DS464/8

India – Solar Cells

20 April 2016

India

WT/DS456/9

No other appeal

-

EU – Biodiesel

20 May 2016

European Union

WT/DS473/10

Argentina

WT/DS473/11

Russia – Pigs (EU)

23 September 2016

Russian
Federation

WT/DS475/8

European Union

WT/DS475/9

EC and certain member States – Large Civil Aircraft

13 October 2016

European Union

WT/DS316/29

United States

WT/DS316/30

US – Anti-Dumping Methodologies (China)

18 November 2016

China

WT/DS471/8

No other appeal

-

US – Tax Incentives

16 December 2016

United States

WT/DS487/6

European Union

WT/DS487/7

Other
appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an other
appeal

Circulation
date of report

Panel reports appealed

Date of appeal

Appellant

Document
number for
notification
of an appeal

EC – Fasteners (China)

9 September 2015

European Union

WT/DS397/21

China

WT/DS397/22

18 January 2016

Argentina – Financial Services

27 October 2015

Panama

WT/DS453/7

Argentina

WT/DS453/8

14 April 2016

Colombia – Textiles

22 January 2016

Colombia

WT/DS461/6

No other appeal

-

7 June 2016

US – Washing Machines

19 April 2016

United States

WT/DS464/7

Korea

WT/DS464/8

7 September 2016

India – Solar Cells

20 April 2016

India

WT/DS456/9

No other appeal

-

16 September 2016

EU – Biodiesel

20 May 2016

European Union

WT/DS473/10

Argentina

WT/DS473/11

6 October 2016

* Appellate Body reports concerning disputes with the same title were circulated as a single document.

Appellate Body
www.wto.org/appellatebody
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

119

Dispute
settlement

Table 6: Appellate Body reports circulated in 2016

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

Supporting development and
building trade capacity
	 Over 18,400 participants benefited from the WTO’s training activities
in 2016, aimed at helping government officials to gain a better
understanding of WTO agreements and the multilateral trading system.
	 Disbursement of Aid for Trade reached US$ 39.8 billion
in 2015, the highest amount for a single year.
	 A commemorative event was held in November 2016 to mark the
100th session of the Committee on Trade and Development.

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

Trade and development

122

Least-developed countries

124

Small economies

126

Aid for Trade

127

Enhanced Integrated Framework

130

Standards and Trade Development Facility 132
134

Building trade
capacity

Technical cooperation and training

Background on supporting development
Background
and
building trade
on outreach
capacity
The WTO aims
maintains
to help
regular
developing
dialogue
with non‑governmental
countries
build their trade
organizations,
capacity and
parliamentarians,
allows
them a longer
other
time
international
to implement
organizations,
trade
agreements.
the media
Hundreds
and the
of training
general
public toare
courses
enhance
organized
cooperation
each year
and
for
raise awareness
officials
from developing
of trade countries.
issues.

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Trade and development
Support for developing countries lies at the heart of the WTO’s activities.
Much of the work in this area is coordinated by the Committee on Trade
and Development, which commemorated its 100th session in 2016.

100

In 2016, the Committee on Trade and Development (CTD)
continued its discussion of duty-free and quota-free (DFQF)
market access for least-developed countries (LDCs).
In November, the CTD conducted an annual review, based on a
WTO Secretariat report, of steps taken by members to provide
DFQF access. At the same meeting, the Committee considered
a revised submission by Benin, on behalf of the LDC Group,
concerning the draft terms of reference for a Secretariat study
on DFQF implementation. Benin indicated that consultations
with WTO members will continue.
WTO members considered a number of proposals submitted
under the mandate from the WTO’s 8th Ministerial Conference
in 2011 for the Committee to undertake focused work on the
link between trade and development. In response to a proposal
by Ecuador, the WTO Secretariat updated its report on the
implementation of special and differential treatment (S&D)
provisions in WTO agreements and decisions. Such provisions
range from increasing trade opportunities for developing
countries and LDCs to granting longer transition periods for
the implementation of WTO agreements and providing
technical assistance.
A commemorative event to mark the 100th session of the
CTD was held in November 2016 under the theme “current
and future perspectives on trade and development”.
WTO members and representatives from other international
organizations and academia reflected on how trade has
evolved since the Committee held its first meeting 20 years
ago. They also discussed what needs to be done to ensure
that trade continues to support developing countries in
the future.

The Committee on
Trade and Development
held its 100th
session in 2016.
“It is a milestone for the CTD, for the WTO, and for the broader
trade and development community,” Director-General Roberto
Azevêdo said in an address. “This is a time for reflection — and
it is a time to be ambitious. We should look at what more the
WTO can do to ensure more people can use trade as a tool for
development,” he added.
The Committee held two dedicated sessions on the
monitoring mechanism on special and differential treatment.
The mechanism, agreed at the 9th Ministerial Conference
in Bali in 2013, acts as a focal point within the WTO to
analyse and review the implementation of S&D in WTO
agreements and decisions. In sessions dedicated to regional
trade agreements (RTAs), WTO members considered the
agreements between MERCOSUR (the Southern Common
Market) and India, and between Mauritius and Pakistan.
The Committee received a report on the 50th session of the
Joint Advisory Group (JAG) of the International Trade Centre
(ITC). The JAG is the policy-making body of the ITC, the trade
promotion agency for developing countries jointly sponsored
by the WTO and the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development (UNCTAD). The ITC’s work focuses on assisting
small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries.

Background on trade and development

Market access

The Committee on Trade and Development is
the focal point for the coordination of all work
on trade and development issues in the WTO.
The Committee deals with a variety of issues, including
all developmental issues, technical cooperation
and training, and notifications under the Enabling
Clause, which allows developed countries to give
more favourable treatment to developing countries.

In 2016, the Committee received notifications under the
Enabling Clause (see page 88) concerning the generalized
system of preferences (GSP) schemes of Norway and the
United States. GSP schemes allow developed countries to
grant preferential tariffs to imports from developing countries.
In addition, a notification was circulated by China providing
updated information on its DFQF Programme for LDCs.

Trade and development
www.wto.org/development

122

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

In 2016, an external evaluation of the WTO’s trade-related
technical assistance was carried out (see page 137). Regular
updates on the status of the evaluation were provided to the
CTD by Norway, on behalf of the Steering Committee of the
evaluation. A CTD meeting was held in early 2017 to consider
the report as well as the WTO Secretariat’s response.

Technical cooperation and training

WTO hosts UN session on LLDCs

The Committee took note of the 2015 report on technical
assistance and training. The WTO Secretariat undertook 269
technical assistance activities in 2015, both in Geneva and
elsewhere. Overall, 15,000 participants were trained during
the year, an increase of 2 per cent compared with 2014 (see
page 134).

In June, the WTO hosted a United Nations session on helping
landlocked developing countries (LLDCs) benefit from trade.
Director-General Roberto Azevêdo attended the meeting
of trade ministers together with Gyan Chandra Acharya,
UN Under-Secretary-General and High Representative
for LDCs, LLDCs and Small Island Developing States
(UN‑OHRLLS). The event was jointly organized by the WTO
and UN-OHRLLS to discuss how trade can help LLDCs
achieve their development goals.

In October 2016, 23 government officials from LDCs in
Africa, Asia and the Pacific took part at the WTO in a course
entitled “enhancing LDC participation in the multilateral
trading system”. The objective of the course was to deepen
participants’ understanding of the trade and development
issues being discussed at the WTO. The course focused
on issues of priority to LDCs, such as DFQF market
access, preferential rules of origin, the LDC services waiver
(see page 75) and technical assistance initiatives available
to LDCs.

DG Azevêdo told the meeting that capacity-building work
through the WTO’s Aid for Trade initiative can be particularly
beneficial to LLDCs and that implementing the Trade
Facilitation Agreement will be crucial in reducing delays in
transit that can have a significant effect on LLDCs. “We expect
that, when fully implemented, the Agreement could reduce
trade costs in LLDCs by over 15 per cent on average,” he said.

Trade and development
www.wto.org/development
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

123

Building trade
capacity

On RTAs, notifications under the Enabling Clause were made
concerning the Arab Mediterranean Free Trade Agreement
(Agadir Agreement) between Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and
Tunisia, the agreement between the Dominican Republic and
Panama, and the accession of Afghanistan to the South Asian
Free Trade Agreement.

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

In June, the WTO
hosted a UN session
on helping landlocked
developing countries
to benefit from trade.

Least-developed countries
In 2016, the Sub-Committee on Least-Developed
Countries (LDCs) continued its examination
of systemic issues of interest to LDCs. The
review of market access for LDCs was a core
part of its deliberations. LDCs presented their
“roadmap” for post-Nairobi work on LDC
issues. The Sub-Committee monitored WTO
technical assistance activities for LDCs as well
as progress in LDC accessions to the WTO.
It considered reports from the LDC Group
Coordinator on the Istanbul Programme of Action
for the LDCs and the UNCTAD 14 conference.

Market access for LDCs
Market access for LDCs was a central element of the
discussions in the three meetings of the Sub-Committee on
LDCs in 2016. The WTO Secretariat presented its yearly
report on trends in LDC trade and market access and briefed
the Sub-Committee on developments in preferential rules of
origin in the Committee on Rules of Origin (see page 65).

Growth in the value of LDC merchandise exports has been
constrained by unfavourable developments in the prices of
primary commodities since 2011. The share of LDCs in world
merchandise exports fell to below 1 per cent in 2015, and the
LDCs’ collective merchandise trade deficit widened to
US$ 87 billion. The trend was more positive in services, where
tourism helped the LDCs to sustain positive export growth and
increase their share in world services exports to 0.8 per cent.
The LDCs expressed concern about the 24 per cent decline
in LDC goods exports in 2015 and the widening trade deficit.
They highlighted the importance of implementing effective
duty‑free and quota‑free (DFQF) market access and called
on WTO members to continue the implementation of the
Nairobi decision on preferential rules of origin to make it easier
for LDC exports to qualify for preferential market access.
In services, LDCs said they were encouraged by the fact
that 23 members had notified commitments on preferential
treatment for services and services suppliers from LDCs under
the LDC services waiver (see page 75).
The Sub‑Committee also considered a WTO Secretariat
note giving a factual compilation of progress made in the
implementation of ministerial declarations and decisions in
favour of LDCs. The LDCs expressed their interest in further
analytical work on the issue.

Technical assistance and capacity building
Background on least-developed
countries (LDCs)
The Sub-Committee on LDCs was established in
July 1995 as a subsidiary body to the Committee on
Trade and Development to address issues of interest
to LDCs. Since the Doha Ministerial Conference
in 2001, the Sub-Committee has focused on the
implementation of the WTO work programme for
LDCs, which looks at a number of systemic issues
of importance to them, such as market access,
technical assistance and accession to the WTO.

The Sub‑Committee regularly monitors the progress of WTO
trade‑related technical assistance provided to LDCs as well
as other capacity‑building initiatives in which the WTO is
involved. The WTO Secretariat assigns priority to LDCs in the
delivery of its technical assistance (see page 134).
LDCs benefited from over 50 per cent of all technical assistance
activities in 2015. LDCs, especially from Africa, were also
among the biggest users of WTO e‑learning courses, providing
a third of participants in 2015. LDCs expressed appreciation for
assistance products geared to their needs, such as internship
programmes at the WTO and at LDC missions, as well as
for two LDC-specific courses on services trade statistics and
development issues held at the WTO in 2016.

Least‑developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs

124

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

The secretariats of the EIF and the Standards and Trade
Development Facility (see page 132) presented the key
findings of a joint study on sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS)
issues in diagnostic trade integration studies (see page 130),
which help countries identify constraints to trade. The study
underlines the importance of maintaining linkages between
agriculture and trade ministries and the need to enhance
national capacities to implement SPS policies.

Accession of LDCs to the WTO
The WTO Secretariat briefed members on accession working
parties involving LDCs (Bhutan, Comoros, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Sudan, and Sao Tomé and Principe) as well as on
post‑accession support. The LDCs called on WTO members
to provide capacity‑building support to acceding LDCs.
Two LDCs, Afghanistan and Liberia, officially became
members of the WTO in 2016 and accession negotiations
were initiated for two other LDCs, Somalia and Timor‑Leste,
in December 2016 (see pages 25‑6). Currently, eight LDCs
are in the process of joining the WTO.

LDC Group retreat
The LDC Group held a retreat in April 2016, with the
participation of Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo. Following
the retreat, the Group submitted its post‑Nairobi priorities to the
Sub-Committee in June. These priorities will serve as a
“roadmap” for the Group’s engagement in post‑Nairobi work at
the WTO.
LDC Group Coordinator Ambassador Eloi Laourou (Benin)
emphasized the need for effective implementation of the
decisions taken in favour of LDCs, including on preferential
treatment for LDC services, DFQF market access and
preferential rules of origin. Priority issues also include domestic
support (subsidies) in agriculture, including cotton, fisheries
subsidies and special and differential treatment for LDCs.
Under China’s LDCs and Accessions Programme, the LDC
Group engaged with other developing countries and
international agencies in dialogue on LDCs and development
in Annecy, France, in September 2016. Reporting to the SubCommittee on the meeting, the LDC Coordinator said that the
meeting had reviewed the evolving trends in cooperation
between developing countries in trade, aid and investment.

Istanbul Programme of Action and
UNCTAD 14
A mid-term review of the United Nations’ Istanbul Programme
of Action (IPoA) for the LDCs for 2011-2020 was held in
Antalya, Turkey, in May 2016. The IPoA aims at helping LDCs
overcome structural challenges in order to eradicate poverty
and enable their graduation from the LDC category. The WTO
Secretariat organized a side-event at the conference, which
provided an opportunity to inform the UN community on how
developments on LDC issues in the WTO contribute to the
goals of the IPoA.
The LDC Group Coordinator drew the attention of the
Sub-Committee to specific trade and investment measures
recommended by the mid-term review to help LDCs achieve
the objectives of the IPoA. These include doubling the share of
LDCs in global exports to 2 per cent by 2020. Recommended
measures include a call for donor countries to allocate 0.2 per
cent of their gross national income as official development
assistance to LDCs.
The review further emphasized the importance of the WTO as
a global forum for trade rules and governance and urged the
LDCs and their development partners to make use of WTO
decisions, including on DFQF market access and preferential
rules of origin, as well as Aid for Trade.
The LDCs also reported on the outcomes of the UNCTAD
14 conference held in Nairobi in July 2016. UNCTAD
members agreed to strengthen the focus of UNCTAD on
the trade and development needs of LDCs across all areas
of its mandate and to continue UNCTAD’s work on DFQF
market access, rules of origin, the LDC services waiver,
cotton and accessions. The LDCs underlined the importance
of coordinated efforts between the WTO and UNCTAD
to contribute towards achieving the UN’s Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).

Assistance for the cotton sector
In 2016, two rounds of the Director General’s Consultative
Framework Mechanism on Cotton reviewed cotton-specific
assistance and other assistance related to the cotton sector
such as infrastructure-support programmes.
In October 2016, DG Azevêdo took part in the Ministerial
Meeting of the Cotton-4 group of West African cottonproducing countries (Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad and Mali),
which took place in Bamako, Mali. He paid tribute to the Cotton4’s efforts to defend their interests and highlighted in particular
the active role played by Mali as coordinator of the group.
DG Azevêdo stressed the importance of continuing to work
towards the reform of the cotton sector so that the Cotton-4
countries can compete on fair terms in international markets.
The latest data on cotton-specific development assistance show
active commitments of US$ 281 million, of which US$ 100 million
has been disbursed. Commitments on agriculture and
infrastructure-related development assistance increased to
US$ 4.1 billion, of which US$ 1.9 billion has been disbursed.

Least‑developed countries
www.wto.org/ldcs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

125

Building trade
capacity

The Executive Secretariat of the Enhanced Integrated
Framework (EIF), which helps LDCs use trade as a vehicle for
development, updated the Sub‑Committee on the status of
work under Phase Two of the EIF Programme (see page 130).
Highlighting the importance of the EIF for their development,
the LDCs encouraged development partners to continue
supporting the EIF.

-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity
Beneficiaries of cotton development assistance continued
their efforts to implement reforms in their cotton sectors.
Nevertheless, speaking for the “Cotton Four” countries —
Burkina Faso, Benin, Chad and Mali — whose economies
largely rely on cotton exports, Ambassador Thiam Diallo of
Mali said that the continuous downward pressure on global
cotton prices and high production costs were having adverse
consequences on the cotton sector in Africa.

Ministers reaffirmed their commitment “to continue to address
in every area of WTO work, in a substantive and meaningful
manner, the needs of small, vulnerable economies (SVEs)
and to favourably consider the adoption of such measures
as would facilitate their fuller integration into the multilateral
trading system”. Ministers said they would take into account
the needs of SVEs in all areas of negotiations, without creating
a sub‑category of WTO members.

Small economies

Dedicated sessions

The Committee on Trade and Development carried
out ministerial instructions to examine the impact
of WTO rules on small, vulnerable economies
(SVEs) and the trade-related constraints they
face. It continued work on the challenges and
opportunities SVEs experience in linking into
global value chains. During dedicated sessions
in 2016 on issues raised by SVEs, the Committee
also began work on the challenges small
economies experience in reducing trade costs.
Small, vulnerable economies are those WTO members
that account for only a small percentage of world trade.
WTO members recognize that these economies, while not
forming an official sub‑category of members, face specific
challenges due to their size and the distances that can
separate them from their key trading partners.
The Committee on Trade and Development took note of a
revised compilation paper in which the WTO Secretariat
detailed progress made on proposals submitted by SVEs
since 2002. These include proposals made by SVEs in the
Doha Round negotiating groups and in other WTO bodies,
mainly regarding agriculture, industrial goods, services, rules
(including fisheries subsidies) and trade facilitation.
The 10th Ministerial Conference in 2015 in Nairobi agreed that
the Committee continue its work in dedicated session on the
challenges and opportunities experienced by small economies
when linking into global value chains in trade in goods and
services. They also asked the WTO Secretariat to examine the
challenges which small economies experience in their efforts to
reduce trade costs, particularly in the area of trade facilitation.

Background on small economies
The Committee on Trade and Development – in
dedicated session – oversees work on small
economies and monitors the progress of proposals
from small, vulnerable economies in the various WTO
bodies and negotiating groups. Small economies
are mainly but not exclusively small island states.

Three dedicated sessions were held in 2016. At the session on
9 March, members continued to discuss the WTO Secretariat
research paper, “Challenges and Opportunities experienced
by Small Economies when linking into Global Value Chains
in Trade in Goods and Services”. It examined the paper’s
chapters on global value chains in the textiles and clothing
sector and heard from experts about recent trends and
examples of small economies successfully integrating their
exports into value chains.
The paper shows that by specializing in specific tasks or
stages within the value chain, small economies can, to a
certain extent, mitigate their lack of economies of scale and
realize economic benefits. Global value chains can help
small economies diversify their exports away from primary
commodities to manufacturing and services. However, this is
by no means an automatic process, it adds.
At the session on 12 July, members addressed value chains
in the tourism sector and heard presentations from the
International Trade Centre (ITC), the UN World Tourism
Organization, USAID, the Guatemalan Institute for Tourism and
the South Pacific Tourism Organization.
Members discussed the challenges and opportunities
related to building a sustainable tourism sector and shared
national experiences. Besides its direct contributions to the
economy, tourism yields indirect benefits through government
spending on infrastructure, domestic purchases of goods
and services and investment flows. In addition, there are
linkages with agriculture, fisheries, construction, utilities and
telecommunications. Tourism has already played a vital role in
helping members like Cabo Verde, the Maldives and Samoa
graduate from least-developed country (LDC) status.
On 4 November, members focused on how small
economies can benefit from integrating into services value
chains, especially in information technology and business
process outsourcing, which include call centres and
accounting, and logistic and maritime transport services.
Presentations were made by the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the ITC as
well as representatives from Panama, Jamaica, Sri Lanka
and Guatemala.
At their last session of 2016, members also agreed to a
proposal by the SVE group that the Secretariat conduct
research on the challenges small economies experience
in their efforts to reduce trade costs, especially in trade
facilitation (see page 72).

Small economies
www.wto.org/smalleconomies

126

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

Aid for Trade
The Committee on Trade and Development adopted the 2016-2017 Aid for Trade work
programme on promoting connectivity. Disbursements of Aid for Trade reached
US$ 39.8 billion in 2015, the highest amount for a single year. The WTO and the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development launched the 2016 Aid for
Trade monitoring and evaluation exercise, which aims to review Aid for Trade priorities in
advance of the Global Review of Aid for Trade, to be held at the WTO on 11-13 July 2017.

53,877

2014

48,511

2013

49,516

2012

46,551

2011

38,852

2010

39,130

2009

36,801

2008

36,159

2007

27,273

2006

39.8 billion

2015

Disbursements of Aid for Trade
reached US$ 39.8 billion
in 2015, the highest
amount for a single year.

2011

24,594

39,802

2014

37,888

2013

36,011

2012

33,632
32,406

2010

29,277

2009

26,229

2008

23,547

2007

20,467

2006

18,855

0

10,000

20,000

30,000

40,000

50,000

60,000

Trade policy and regulations
Economic infrastructure
Building productive capacity

Background on Aid for Trade
WTO members launched the Aid for Trade initiative
at the Sixth Ministerial Conference in Hong Kong
in 2005. Aid for Trade focuses on supporting
developing countries, particularly the leastdeveloped, in building trade capacity, enhancing
their infrastructure and improving their ability to
benefit from trade-opening opportunities.

Source: OECD-CRS, Creditor Reporting System

Disbursements increased for Africa, Asia and Oceania
(see Figure 2). Disbursements to least-developed countries
(LDCs) increased by US$ 1.1 billion to US$ 10.6 billion in
2015 (see Figure 3). This is the highest level of disbursements
to LDCs for a single year.

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

127

Building trade
capacity

Data from the OECD show that overall Aid for Trade
disbursements reached US$ 39.8 billion in 2015, the highest
for a single year (see Figure 1). Total commitments climbed by
US$ 5.4 billion to US$ 53.9 billion between 2014 and 2015,
the latest year for which figures are available.

2015

Commitments

Total disbursements of Aid for Trade since 2006 have
reached US$ 298 billion in official development aid. A further
US$ 248 billion has been provided in other official flows
(development finance provided to developing countries but not
at rates considered official development assistance).

Figure 1: Aid for Trade commitments and disbursements
in US$ million (2015 prices) by category

Disbursements

Aid for Trade financing

-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity
Figure 2: Aid for Trade commitments and disbursements by region in US$ million (2015 prices)

25,000
10,000

20,000

5,000

15,000

0

5,000

10,000

Europe

5,000

0

America
0

Asia

20,000

Commitments Disbursements
2006
2006
2007
2007
2008
2008
2009
2009
2010
2010
2011
2011
2012
2012
2013
2013
2014
2014
2015
2015

15,000
10,000

5,000

5,000

0

0

Oceania

Africa

Source: OECD-CRS, Creditor Reporting System

Figure 3: Aid for Trade commitments to LDCs in 2006-15
in US$ million (2015 prices)

6,594

2006

4,787
8,657

2007

5,473
10,442

2008

6,628
7,791
12,133

2010

8,366
11,913

2011

8,772
11,051

2012

8,715
16,570

2013

9,861
12,980

2014

9,484
17,244

2015

10,550

0

5,000
Commitments

10,000

15,000

Disbursements

A key message from the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade
in 2015 was that high trade costs, such as tariff and non-tariff
barriers, transport costs and exchange rate costs, create
a substantial obstacle for developing countries seeking to
connect to global markets – with LDCs, landlocked developing
countries and small, vulnerable economies the most affected.
The 2016-17 Aid for Trade work programme aims to help
developing countries connect to export markets so that they
can fully exploit their potential. The programme, which was
launched in February 2016, builds on the results of the Fifth
Global Review.

11,398

2009

Promoting connectivity

20,000

The work programme will deepen analysis of how high trade
costs inhibit the integration of developing countries into
global value chains and restrict their economic development.
The programme will include cross-cutting activities on
empowering women, upgrading infrastructure for developing
countries, e‑commerce, and micro, small and medium-sized
enterprises (MSMEs). These activities will culminate in the
Global Review, scheduled for 11-13 July 2017, whose theme
is “Promoting Trade, Inclusiveness and Connectivity for
Sustainable Development”.

Source: OECD-CRS, Creditor Reporting System

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade

128

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

In May, a joint World
Bank/WTO forum was
held at the WTO on
how to ensure that the
poor gain from trade.

The Committee on Trade and Development held three sessions
on Aid for Trade, in February, May and October. At each
session, WTO members reviewed the implementation of the
work programme.
In 2016, the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank,
the African Development Bank and the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) updated
WTO members on implementing Aid for Trade activities and
mobilizing resources.
In October, Benin, on behalf of the LDC Group, and China
reported on the “South-South Dialogue on LDCs and
Development”, held in September in Annecy, France. Benin
said the event had reviewed the evolving trends in cooperation
between developing countries in the areas of trade, aid and
investment and it had discussed the priority issues for LDCs.

Thematic events
Two Aid for Trade thematic events were held in 2016. In May,
a joint World Bank/WTO forum was held on the theme of
“connecting to trade: policies and programmes for maximizing
poverty reduction impact”.
The forum was a follow-up to the WTO-World Bank
co‑publication “The Role of Trade in Ending Poverty”, launched
by DG Azevêdo and World Bank President Jim Yong Kim
in June 2015. It discussed various dimensions of trade
and poverty, including employment, rural poverty, gender
inequality, cross-cutting challenges and the related impact of
trade measures.

A second event – on “promoting connectivity: the services
dimension” – focused on services and the digital divide (the
gap between those with ready access to computers and the
Internet and those without). The workshop discussed the need
to address poor regulatory environments which hinder the
development of competitive service sectors.

Monitoring and evaluation
DG Roberto Azevêdo and OECD Secretary‑General
Angel Gurría launched the 2016 Aid for Trade monitoring
and evaluation exercise (M&E) in July 2016. Its aim is to
review Aid for Trade priorities and to assess how Aid for
Trade is contributing to the achievement of the Sustainable
Development Goals, notably the targets on poverty eradication
and women’s economic empowerment.
By the end of 2016, 101 WTO members and observers had
taken part in the exercise. A total of 110 questionnaires and
145 case stories had been submitted by partner countries,
regional economic communities and donors. The exercise also
attracted the participation of the private sector, academia and
civil society.
The information collected will be analysed and presented in the
next edition of “Aid for Trade at a Glance”, co-published with
the OECD, which will be launched at the 2017 Global Review.
The Review will highlight the main obstacles to connectivity
and how these can be overcome to achieve trade growth and
sustainable development.

Aid for Trade
www.wto.org/aidfortrade
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

129

Building trade
capacity

Committee on Trade and Development

-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Enhanced Integrated
Framework
In January 2016, the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF) launched phase two
of its programme, which aims to help least-developed countries (LDCs) use trade
as a tool for growth. Phase two will run until 2022. The EIF rolled out projects
in several LDCs aimed at supporting these countries’ capacity to trade.

In 2016, the EIF focused on ensuring a seamless transition
from phase one (2009‑2015), which delivered 142 projects
with a total allocation of US$ 202 million across 51 of the
world’s poorest countries. Most projects were aimed at
supporting trade development capacity. The projects have
helped to create the kinds of jobs that lift people, particularly
women and young people, out of poverty. The EIF’s unique
approach guarantees full LDC ownership; most EIF projects
are co‑financed by the LDCs themselves.
Implementation of the EIF programme continued in 2016
with the successful delivery of projects in many LDCs.
Diagnostic trade integration studies (DTISs) or DTIS
updates were finalized in Benin, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau,
Mauritania, Myanmar and Samoa. DTISs help countries identify
and address constraints to trade, economic growth and
sustainable development. They provide a basis for action by
governments, civil society, the private sector and development
partners. Another 38 countries had institutional support
projects under way and 32 supply-side support projects were
being implemented.
Contribution agreements with EIF donors, following the EIF
pledging conference in December 2015, have mostly been

Background on the Enhanced
Integrated Framework
The EIF is the only global Aid for Trade programme
dedicated to addressing the trade capacity needs of
LDCs. It is supported by a multi-donor trust fund and
provides financial and technical support to build trade
capacity in LDCs to help them use trade as a tool for
economic growth and poverty reduction. The EIF is a
partnership of LDCs, donors and partner agencies,
including the WTO, the World Bank, the International
Monetary Fund, the United Nations Development
Programme, the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development, the International Trade Centre,
United Nations World Tourism Organization and
United Nations Industrial Development Organization.

142
Phase one of the EIF project
delivered 142 projects
with a total allocation of
US$ 202 million across 51 of
the world’s poorest countries.
completed and funding for the new phase has begun to be
disbursed. At the conference, held in Nairobi ahead of the 10th
WTO Ministerial Conference, 15 donor countries pledged
US$ 90 million for phase two.
The new phase also includes refining and rolling out
improvements based on lessons learned from the first phase.
Notable examples include the publishing of updated guidelines
for DTISs, following an in‑depth consultation process by the
EIF partnership of LDCs, donors and agencies as well as
additional support for work of EIF donor facilitators in LDCs.
The facilitator is a representative from the donor community
active in supporting an LDC’s trade agenda and is identified by
the government and other donors.
Work also began on meeting a commitment to donors to
deliver a more dynamic and results‑driven EIF capable
of demonstrating increased efficiency, effectiveness,
transparency and value for money. Development of a value‑
for‑money framework for the EIF as well as a new, web‑based
management information system will help meet these goals.

Recent EIF projects
In Mali, the EIF programme has helped improve the quality of
the mango crop through phytosanitary treatment of mango
orchards and by encouraging good agricultural practices.
It has supported capacity‑building of the different actors in the
value chain (women farmers, producers, traders and exporters),
provided guidance to a dozen exporters on obtaining “global

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org

130

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

EIF funding is
supporting the silk
sector in Cambodia,
helping to improve
the livelihoods of
women in rural areas
working in this sector.

As part of the EIF programme, a DTIS was undertaken in
Myanmar to analyse opportunities and constraints in the
country’s trade environment. With the assistance of the World
Bank, and with additional financial contributions from Australia
and the United Kingdom, the “Opening for Business” DTIS
addressed the country’s major economic challenges and made
recommendations. Among the latter were calls to overhaul
trade policy regulations and build capacity in trade policy and
promotion, to ensure inclusive export-led growth, to encourage
growth of trade in services and to facilitate trade through
better logistics and finance.

Collaboration
The EIF brought together its partners at the mid-term review of
the Istanbul Programme of Action in Antalya (see page 125)
in May 2016 and the UNCTAD XIV Ministerial Meeting in
Nairobi in July 2016. It also held EIF‑specific events, such as
the EIF’s Steering Committee meeting held in April 2016 and
two regional EIF workshops for Asian EIF countries and for the
Pacific region.
The EIF has also collaborated with teams across the WTO
Secretariat, including co‑publishing a joint briefing note with
the Standards and Trade Development Facility on how sanitary
and phytosanitary (SPS) issues are addressed in DTISs. It also
participated in workshops on technical barriers to trade (TBT),
trade facilitation and other areas of WTO activity.
Building trade
capacity

gap” certification and offered marketing support at national
and international trade events. The global gap certificate is an
internationally recognized symbol of commitment to excellence,
sustainability and reliability. Thanks to the programme,
over 450 women are earning more money from mango farming
and jam‑making. In addition, women in rural cooperatives are
being trained in processing techniques for fruit and vegetables,
which will add value to their exports.

Gender-focused projects
The EIF took stock in 2016 of some of its gender‑focused
projects at an event at the WTO’s Public Forum
(see page 140). Gender‑related indicators have been
incorporated into the phase two guidelines. The event included
personal testimonies and footage of existing projects, such as
support for the export of mangoes from Mali (see above),
the manufacturing of silk clothing in Cambodia, cross-border
trade in Rwanda (where 75 per cent of traders are women) and
tourism services in the Solomon Islands. Speakers noted how
trade plays a central role in empowering women.

Enhanced Integrated Framework
www.enhancedif.org
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

131

-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Standards and Trade
Development Facility
The Standards and Trade Development Facility (STDF) continued to help developing
countries improve their capacity to implement sanitary and phytosanitary (SPS) standards
and to access wider markets. It supported the preparation and implementation of numerous
new projects aimed at promoting compliance with international standards and facilitating
market access. It also produced a user guide on how to prioritize SPS investments
and published a series of case studies highlighting the results of recent projects.

The STDF continued to harness worldwide expertise on trade,
health and agriculture issues to help farmers and traders in
developing countries use trade in agricultural products as a
means of increasing their incomes and improving their
standard of living. It developed new ways of providing
assistance so that developing countries can improve their
capacity to meet food safety, animal and plant health
requirements and therefore reach wider markets for
their products.

Figure 4: Location of STDF projects and project
preparation grants (number)
1% 1%

Middle East Europe

10%

Global

17%

Project grants
The STDF approved 11 project preparation grants (PPGs)
and one project in 2016. This project aims to help the National
Public Health Laboratory in the Solomon Islands improve the
service it provides to fish exporters so that they can reach
wider markets.

Latin America
and
Caribbean

48%

Africa

23%

Asia and Pacific

Figure 5: Coverage of STDF projects and project
preparation grants (number)

Background on the Standards and Trade
Development Facility
The STDF is a global partnership that helps
developing countries build their sanitary and
phytosanitary (SPS) capacity and their ability
to gain and maintain market access. The STDF
contributes to broader sustainable development
goals, such as enhanced economic growth, poverty
reduction, food security and environmental protection.
Established by the UN Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO), the World Organisation for Animal
Health (OIE), the World Bank, the World Health
Organization and the WTO, the STDF is financed
by voluntary contributions. The WTO provides the
Secretariat and manages the STDF trust fund.

11%

25%

Animal health

General SPS

27%

Plant health

37%

Food safety

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org

132

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 136 End-----------------------

Information sharing
Building on the STDF’s work on reducing SPS‑related
trade costs, a seminar was organized at the WTO in
June on electronic SPS certification. It brought together
over 150 participants from WTO members, international
organizations and global business. Speakers shared the latest
knowledge and good practices on automated SPS systems
and their impact on facilitating trade by cutting time and costs,
compared with the old paper‑based systems. Electronic SPS
certification can contribute to faster movement of food and
agricultural products, reduced transaction costs and improved
health protection. It can lead to improved compliance with
regulations and policies, reducing errors and fraud, supporting
risk management and enhancing trust among partners.

Of the total number of grants approved by the STDF, 48 per
cent have been awarded to sub-Saharan Africa, 23 per cent
to Asia and the Pacific and 17 per cent to Latin America and
the Caribbean (see Figure 4). Of these grants, 38 per cent
were dedicated to food safety, 27 per cent to plant health and
11 per cent to animal health issues (see Figure 5). Overall,
the STDF has devoted 65 per cent of project resources to
least‑developed countries (LDCs) and other low-income
countries, exceeding its target of at least 40 per cent.

New tools
In February, the STDF published a user guide “Prioritizing
SPS Investments for Market Access: A framework to inform
and improve SPS decision-making processes”. An information
session on the guide was organized on the margins of a
meeting of the Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary (SPS)
Measures in March. The guide highlights the importance of
facilitating public-private dialogue on SPS matters, increasing
political awareness about the benefits of strengthening SPS
capacity, informing and improving national SPS planning and
decision-making processes, supporting project design and
leveraging additional funding resources. The user guide is
available on the STDF website.
The STDF produced a new film entitled “Cocoa: a sweet value
chain”, which follows the journey of the cocoa bean from a
tropical plantation to its transformation into chocolate. The film
highlights how SPS standards help to make sure that cocoa
plants are free from pests and diseases and that chocolate
is safe for consumers. The film draws attention to the various
actors who play a role in in keeping the cocoa value chain
safe, from smallholder farmers in West Africa to the chocolate
manufacturers in Europe. The film was premiered at the World
Cocoa Conference in the Dominican Republic in May and is
available on the STDF website.

Also in June, the STDF, in collaboration with the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), organized an
information session on how an STDF‑funded project helped
cinnamon producers in Sri Lanka overcome trading constraints
by formulating national standards and a curriculum for
vocational training. The project helped set up a purpose‑built
cinnamon training academy at Kosgoda, Sri Lanka. It also
started the process of registering pure Ceylon cinnamon as a
geographical indication in European markets to add value to
high‑quality Ceylon cinnamon.

Promoting awareness
In October, the STDF launched a new initiative to promote
awareness and uptake of STDF tools and project support, and
raise the STDF’s visibility. New fact-sheets and a series
of stories on the results of projects were produced and
made available on the STDF website. The STDF Secretariat
continued to participate actively in conferences, training
workshops and other meetings at international, regional and
national level to promote cooperation on SPS projects and
initiatives. The Secretariat reported to each meeting of the
SPS Committee on its activities and operations as well as to
other WTO committees.
In December, the STDF published a briefing note highlighting
its work in helping women farmers, processors and traders
produce and export safe food and agricultural products.
The note underlines that promoting women’s access to,
and participation in, agriculture and trade can support
economic growth, reduce poverty and boost food security
in developing countries. Examples of how the STDF has
helped women build their know‑how to meet SPS standards
are highlighted.

Standards and Trade Development Facility
www.standardsfacility.org
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

133

Building trade
capacity

The STDF produced a new film entitled
“Cocoa: a sweet value chain”, highlighting
how SPS standards help to make sure
that chocolate is safe for consumers.

-----------------------Page 137 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Technical cooperation
and training
The WTO Secretariat undertook 315 technical assistance activities in 2016 aimed
at helping government officials gain a better understanding of WTO rules and
the multilateral trading system. Over 18,400 participants benefited from these
training activities, up from some 15,000 in 2015. Least-developed countries (LDCs)
were invited to participate in 60 per cent of all technical assistance activities,
significantly more than in past years. Nearly half of the participants accessed
training through e-learning resources on the WTO’s online platform. An external
report highlighted the value of the WTO’s technical assistance programme.

The WTO’s training activities are mostly based on a technical
assistance and training plan approved by the Committee on
Trade and Development. The 2016-17 plan followed a “resultsbased management approach”, measuring results to ensure
that training is delivered in the most effective way. Courses are
undertaken as part of a “progressive learning strategy”,
meaning that participants benefit from a step-by-step
approach to improving their awareness of trade issues.
Guidelines and benchmarks help to maintain a high standard of
content for all training, consistent teaching methods and
regular evaluation of all technical assistance activities delivered
by the WTO.
The WTO provides training for both generalists and
specialists. Generalists are government officials who require
a broad knowledge of many WTO subjects to conduct their
work. This category includes many delegates posted to
missions in Geneva. Specialists are government officials who
require detailed knowledge in a specific area. This includes
officials working on a particular issue in a government ministry.

Background on technical cooperation
and training
The WTO’s Institute for Training and Technical
Cooperation coordinates the organization’s
technical assistance programmes. Its activities
include e-learning, global and regional training
courses, academic programmes and workshops at
national and regional level. The technical assistance
programmes help WTO members better understand
their rights and obligations in the multilateral trading
system. This strengthens countries’ capacity
to benefit from participation in the system.

18,400
Over 18,400
government officials
benefited from WTO
training activities
in 2016 compared
with around
15,000 in 2015.
Advanced courses are run on various subjects, including
sanitary and phytosanitary issues, dispute settlement,
trade‑related intellectual property rights, regional trade
agreements, trade in services, trade policy analysis, and other
areas of specific interest to LDCs. Three Geneva‑based
advanced trade policy courses, each one lasting eight weeks,
were held in 2016 for generalists.
The WTO also held a number of regional activities in 2016
aimed at both generalists and specialists. Eight‑week regional
trade policy courses were held for generalists in six regions:
English‑speaking Africa; French‑speaking Africa; Asia and the
Pacific; the Caribbean; Latin America; and Arab and Middle
East countries. Kazakhstan was selected as the new partner
for the Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia regional
course from 2017.
Specialist courses included a workshop on trade in services for
member states of the Common Market for Eastern and Southern
Africa and workshops on trade facilitation for the Arab and
Middle‑East region and for Central and Eastern Europe, Central
Asia and the Caucasus region. A workshop on modifying tariff
commitments was organized for the Economic Community of
West African States, while a workshop on e‑commerce was

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

134

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 138 End-----------------------

The first training
course on trade
in services for
countries seeking
to join the WTO was
held at the WTO in
November 2016.

held for Latin America. A further workshop on sanitary and
phytosanitary measures, technical barriers to trade and trade
facilitation was organized for Asia-Pacific countries.
The WTO continued to involve international and regional
partners in the delivery of technical assistance activities to
ensure that a regional perspective was included in the design
of the training programmes. The partnership approach has
also been extended to the Academic Support Programme
(see page 164).
Twenty per cent of activities were for the benefit of African
countries, 13 per cent for Asia and the Pacific, 10 per cent
for Latin America, 10 per cent for Central and Eastern Europe
and Central Asia, and 4 per cent for the Arab and Middle East
regions (see Table 1). The remaining 40 per cent were “global”

activities, mostly held in Geneva, aimed at participants from all
regions. In line with a demand-driven approach, approximately
35 per cent of all activities were delivered at the national level
in countries where a specific need was identified.
The number of face-to-face training activities conducted by the
WTO was relatively stable in 2016 in comparison with 2015.
The number of online courses increased slightly and the WTO
Secretariat continued to implement a targeted approach to
meet members’ needs.
LDCs had access to 60 per cent of all technical assistance
activities, including national activities held in their countries,
regional and global activities in which LDCs were invited to
participate and e-learning courses. This is compared with
around 50 per cent in previous years.

Region
Africa

National technical
assistance

Regional

Other
(conferences, etc.)

Global**

Building trade
capacity

Table 1: Technical assistance activities by region in 2016*
Total

40

36%

14

24%

0

0%

10

27%

64

20%

7

6%

6

10%

0

0%

1

3%

14

4%

Asia and the Pacific

24

22%

14

24%

0

0%

3

8%

41

13%

Central and Eastern Europe and Central
Asia

18

16%

8

14%

0

0%

5

14%

31

10%

3

3%

5

8%

0

0%

0

0%

8

3%

18

16%

7

12%

0

0%

5

14%

30

10%

110

100%

54

92%

0

0%

24

65%

188

60%

0

0%

5

8%

109

100%

13

35%

127

40%

110

100%

59

100%

109

100%

37

100%

315

100%

Arab and Middle East

Caribbean
Latin America
Sub-total
Global
Total

* Totals may not add up to 100 per cent due to rounding.
** Activities under the “global” category are not targeted at a specific region but include activities such as Geneva-based courses,
distance learning, internship programmes and an advisory role on legal issues.

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

135

-----------------------Page 139 End-----------------------

Supporting development and building trade capacity

Internship programmes

The number of products specifically created for LDCs,
or having LDCs as a priority, has also increased. For example,
workshops were held on LDC needs in the field of
intellectual property, trade in services statistics in relation to
LDCs, and enhancing LDC participation in the multilateral
trading system.

WTO internship programmes offer government officials
hands-on experience in WTO activities. The Netherlands
Trainee Programme, the French and Irish Missions Internship
Programme, the Regional Coordinator Internship Programme
and the Accession Internship Programme give priority
to applicants from Africa and LDCs, to small, vulnerable
economies, and to countries in the process of joining
the WTO.

Participation rates
Approximately 18,400 people participated in technical
assistance activities in 2016, compared with around 15,000
in 2015. In 2016, 10,279 participants from 147 countries
(compared with 7,523 in 2015) enrolled for e-learning courses,
with Africa providing 38 per cent of participants, followed
by Latin America with 21 per cent, Asia and the Pacific with
20 per cent, Central and Eastern Europe and Central Asia
with 8 per cent, the Arab and Middle East region with 8 per
cent and the Caribbean with 5 per cent. Some 60 per cent
of participants undertook the online course in English, 20 per
cent in French and 20 per cent in Spanish.

In 2016, the majority of officials completing the WTO
internship programmes were from Africa and the Asia and
Pacific regions. Eighteen candidates completed the French
and Irish Missions Internship Programme, 16 candidates
completed the Netherlands Trainee Programme,
five candidates completed the Regional Coordinator Internship
Programme and seven the Accession Internship Programme.

Women represented 43 per cent of participants for all WTO
technical assistance activities in 2016. Roughly 65 per cent of
participants undertook technical assistance in English, 18 per
cent in French and 16 per cent in Spanish.

The Young Professionals Programme was launched in
2016 to increase the representation of professionals from
under‑represented countries. Six young professionals became
the first participants in the programme in January 2017
(see page 169).

Technical assistance was strengthened for countries seeking
to join the WTO (see page 26 and Figure 6), with government
officials invited to participate in over 100 technical
assistance events.

WTO reference centres

Figure 6: Participants in WTO technical assistance
activities in 2016 from countries seeking to join the WTO
Afghanistan

56

Algeria

116

Andorra

0

Azerbaijan

47

Bahamas

40

Bhutan
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Comoros

The WTO Reference Centres Programme provides guidance
to government officials, the private sector and the academic
community on trade-related information available on the WTO
website and distributes trade-related publications to improve
understanding of WTO issues. Reference centres also
organize trade-related events, training activities and technical
meetings. There are currently over 65 active WTO reference
centres around the world.
In 2016, the WTO established/upgraded seven reference
centres: four in Africa (Benin, Mozambique, Tanzania and
Zambia), two in Asia (Bangladesh and Bhutan), and one in
Latin America (Paraguay).

14

Belarus

Young Professionals Programme

121
26
52

Equatorial Guinea

6

Ethiopia

Financing technical assistance

115

Iran

150

Iraq

6

Lebanese Republic

52

Republic of Liberia

150

Libya
São Tomé
and Principe
Serbia

0
3

As in previous years, the high level of funds carried forward
was mainly due to large contributions being received in the last
few months of the year. However, with a total of CHF 7 million
contributed by 12 WTO members in 2016, donations fell by
some 22 per cent compared with 2015, when CHF 9.1 million
was received from 13 countries.

15

Sudan

42

Syrian Arab Republic

4

Uzbekistan

9

0

30

The bulk of the technical assistance programme is financed
by the Doha Development Agenda Global Trust Fund, which
receives voluntary contributions from WTO members (see
Table 2). The balance carried forward from 2015 allowed the
financial position of the fund to remain solid in 2016.

60

90

120

150

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation

136

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 140 End-----------------------

2,000 activities and involving some 80,000 participants with a
total budget of some CHF 110 million.

Other funding sources included the WTO’s regular budget
for Geneva‑based courses and national technical assistance
missions – approximately CHF 4.5 million in 2016 – and
contributions from other trust funds (such as the French‑Irish
Missions Internship Programme, the Netherlands Trainee
Programme and the China Programme), which totalled
CHF 3.9 million in 2016.

External evaluation of WTO
technical assistance

The report, produced by London-based Saana Consulting,
highlights the WTO’s progress towards achieving the targets
outlined in its biennial plans for technical assistance. It notes
that its technical assistance activities have been largely,
and increasingly, effective in improving the capacity of
developing countries to respect multilateral trade rules and to
participate in trade negotiations. The report also recommends
ways to make the training activities more transparent, targeted
and accountable.

An external evaluation report on the functioning of WTO
trade‑related technical assistance was issued in October
2016. It identifies best practices and lessons learned in the
delivery of training courses. The evaluation covers all WTO’s
technical assistance activities from 2010 to 2015, totalling over

“When the WTO was created over two decades ago, technical
assistance was not a major part of our work. Fast forward to today
and it constitutes one of the biggest outputs of the organization.
It has become, unquestionably, a central element of the WTO’s
activities,” said WTO Director-General Roberto Azevêdo.

Table 2: Doha Development Agenda Global Trust Fund (as of 31 December 2016)
Australia

2011

2012

2013

1,803,600

-

Austria

258,600

240,200

Canada

944,276

1,362,298

Czech Republic
Denmark

23,746

2014

2015

2016

2,689,900

61,370

2,162,382

243,600

241,400

104,900

-

Grand total
-

109,000

6,717,251
1,197,700

-

-

-

-

2,306,574

-

-

-

-

23,746

-

2,026,646

331,230

321,903

491,063

482,422

400,028

26,209

23,199

24,160

24,640

24,120

21,800

144,128

European Union

1,187,500

1,024,050

1,232,000

317,592

1,658,552

1,294,800

6,714,494

Finland

1,228,000

France

611,000

600,500

617,000

608,500

434,400

433,200

3,304,600

1,237,500

1,198,000

1,233,000

1,203,000

1,060,000

1,083,000

7,014,500

Japan

395,604

395,604

368,744

312,019

267,413

218,634

1,958,018

Republic of Korea

322,350

334,950

313,600

336,350

346,500

347,200

2,000,950

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

40,000

240,000

875,000

495,000

490,000

3,332,990

2,163,722

1,161,373

1,177,302

10,822,035

Estonia

Germany

Liechtenstein
Netherlands

1,472,990

Norway

1,593,626

Spain
Sweden

-

2,438,905

400,050
2,074,322

Switzerland

-

-

2,287,108

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,228,000

400,050

2,386,480

2,245,600

-

-

800,000

800,000

-

-

-

1,600,000

181,400

-

-

-

365,600

1,253,700

7,960,102

Chinese Taipei

184,200

United States

940,580

940,535

851,885

1,127,392

950,400

529,036

5,339,828

15,075,383

12,106,624

13,619,060

7,793,406

9,105,068

6,997,672

64,697,213

19

14

15

13

13

12

Total contributions
Number of donors

-

Technical cooperation and training
www.wto.org/technicalcooperation
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

137

Building trade
capacity

Contributions (CHF)

-----------------------Page 141 End-----------------------

Outreach
	 The WTO launched a Trade Dialogues initiative in 2016,
with the aim of providing a range of stakeholders – such as
the private sector, NGOs, academia and consumers – with
regular opportunities to discuss trade-related issues.
	 The first “Trade Dialogues” event was held in May 2016, bringing
together over 60 business leaders to discuss how the WTO
could address the current needs of the business community. The
WTO also launched a “Trade Dialogues” lecture series, aimed at
analysing the relationship between trade and labour markets.
	 The WTO’s major outreach event of the year, the
Public Forum, attracted over 1,100 participants to
some 100 sessions organized over three days.

-----------------------Page 142 End-----------------------

Public Forum 2016

140

Relations with non‑governmental
organizations143
Contact with parliamentarians

144

Cooperation with other international
organizations146
150

Contact with the media

152

Contact with the public

153

Economic research activities

157

Statistics activities

160

Cooperation with academic institutions

162

Outreach

Contact with the business community

Background on outreach
The WTO maintains
organizations,
parliamentarians,
regular dialogue
other
international
with
non‑governmental
organizations,
organizations,
the media and
the general publicother
parliamentarians,
to enhance
international
cooperation
and raise awareness
organizations,
the media
of trade
and the
issues.
general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

-----------------------Page 143 End-----------------------

Outreach

Public Forum 2016
The 2016 Public Forum – the WTO’s major event for public engagement – focused on how
trade can be made more inclusive so that the benefits of trade are spread more widely.
Participants looked at how the WTO could help small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)
gain better access to the global market, and shared ideas on the role of new technologies,
digital innovation and e-commerce. The Forum also discussed how women can participate
more fully in international trade and better reap the benefits of global trade. The WTO’s World
Trade Report and three other publications were launched during the three-day meeting.

Held from 27 to 29 September under the theme “Inclusive
Trade”, the 2016 Public Forum attracted over 1,100
participants. Over 100 sessions were held during the three
days, including two high-level plenary debates.
The Forum opened with a strong call for more inclusive trade and
for a greater focus on the needs of the vulnerable sectors of
society. Against a background of slowing growth in world trade
(see page 96), speakers emphasized the need to facilitate a
greater role for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
(MSMEs) in global trade by addressing barriers such as the gap
between those with ready access to information and
communications technology (ICT) and those without it (the digital
divide) and the lack of trade finance for small businesses (see
page 99).
Participants also underlined the need to promote greater
participation by women in trade and to ensure that effective
policies are put into place to help the poor and those who may
suffer job losses resulting from trade. In the second plenary
debate, the WTO launched its flagship World Trade Report
(see page 157), which examines the participation of MSMEs in
global trade.

1,100
The Public Forum attracted over
1,100 participants in 2016.

The Public Forum sessions were organized by a wide range of
participants, including WTO members, businesses, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), academia, law firms and
international organizations (see below). Topics for debate

Background on the Public Forum
The Public Forum grew out of the WTO’s desire to
open its doors to non‑governmental organizations
(NGOs). Over the years, the event has grown to
become the WTO’s major outreach vehicle for public
debate across a wide range of trade issues. It is a
unique platform for senior government representatives,
global leaders in business, academics, NGOs and trade
delegates to come together to discuss trends in global
trade and the role of the WTO. Participation has
increased year on year. Trade associations and private
sector companies have organized an increasing number
of sessions, bringing practical experience to global
trade issues.

Public Forum 2016
www.wto.org/pf16

140

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 144 End-----------------------

EU Trade
Commissioner Cecilia
Malmström speaking
at the opening session
of the Public Forum.

included how e-commerce and digital trade can help MSMEs
and why this contributes to development, what governments,
companies and international rules can do to bridge the digital
divide, and how to align global trade targets with
women’s interests.
Participants recognized that the digital economy can generate
a new industrial revolution and that it allows small enterprises
in developing countries to tap into global markets. But they
said infrastructure and skill gaps need to be addressed.
A session organized by the missions of the United Kingdom
and Australia and the International Trade Centre (ITC)
concluded that trade can only be truly inclusive if women

worldwide are empowered. Despite the economic gains
offered by trade, only one in five exporting companies is owned
by women and 90 per cent of countries have at least one law
discriminating against women, the session heard.
In addition to the World Trade Report, the Forum featured three
other book launches: African Perspectives on Trade and the
WTO: Domestic Reforms, Structural Transformation and Global
Economic Integration and Regional Trade Agreements and the
Multilateral Trading System, both co‑published by Cambridge
University Press, and Derecho de la Organización Mundial del
Comercio, the first book in Spanish covering the entire corpus
of WTO law.

Outreach

Nigeria’s Trade and
Investment Minister
Okechukwu E. Enelamah
speaking at the launch
of “African Perspectives
on Trade and the WTO”.

Public Forum 2016
www.wto.org/pf16
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

141

-----------------------Page 145 End-----------------------

Outreach
Building on last year’s success, the Forum programme
included several “Meet the Author” sessions, presented by
the WTO bookshop and library. Stands were organized by a
variety of partners showcasing how trade can benefit women.
Forum participants presented ideas on how to change the
WTO rule book in favour of women’s participation in the
trading system. Participants were very active on social media,
posting many messages about the inclusiveness debate.

Participation
The Public Forum 2016 attracted 1,150 participants
(excluding WTO delegates and staff). Participants came from
105 countries, including non-WTO members and observer
governments. Businesses provided the largest number of
representatives (see page 150), followed closely by NGOs,
international organizations and students. Many sessions
were the result of collaboration between different types
of organization.

Figure 1: Public Forum participation in 2016

Figure 2: Public Forum participation in 2016, by country

Journalist 1%
Parliamentarian 4%
Lawyer 5%
Student
(university) 7%

Business representative
17%

Russian Federation 1%
Finland 1%
Kenya 1%
Norway 2%
Belgium 2%
Sweden 2%
Netherlands 3%

Spain 1%
South Africa 1%
Japan 1%
Thailand 1%

Other* 25%

India 3%
Italy 3%

Government
official 8%

NGO
representative
15%

Student
(high school)
8%

Brazil 3%
China 4%
Canada 4%

France
12%

Germany 5%
Other 9%

Academic 14%
International organization 12%

United Kingdom 7%

United States 10%

Switzerland 7%

* “Other” covers 85 countries, each with less than 1 per cent participation.

Public Forum 2016
www.wto.org/pf16

142

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 146 End-----------------------

Relations with
non‑governmental
organizations
Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) received regular updates on WTO activities
in 2016, including briefings on trade negotiations and other issues. They participated
actively in the Public Forum, the WTO’s main outreach event with NGOs.

NGOs organized 26 sessions at the Public Forum
(see page 140) on a wide range of topics, including inclusive
agricultural development, how to facilitate access to world
trade for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and how
trade can be more inclusive and help meet the UN Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs).

Briefings
NGOs received regular briefings from the WTO Secretariat,
where they were updated on the latest developments in trade
negotiations as well as on the daily work and activities of the
organization. NGO briefings take place after meetings of the
WTO’s General Council and Trade Negotiations Committee.

26
26 sessions at the
2016 Public Forum
were organized by
non-governmental
organizations.

May and concerned US tax incentives for large civilian aircraft
(see page 112). The other, in December, and which also involved
the United States, concerned the importation, marketing and
sale of tuna and tuna products (see page 112).

Open hearings

Outreach

Since 2005, some panel meetings, Appellate Body hearings
and arbitration proceedings have been open to the public,
including local NGO representatives. In 2016, registered NGOs
had the opportunity to attend two panel hearings. One was in

Background on relations with NGOs
The WTO maintains regular dialogue with civil
society organizations on various aspects of the
WTO and ongoing trade negotiations. The aim
of this dialogue is to enhance cooperation and
increase awareness of WTO activities and the
multilateral trading system. The WTO’s founding
agreement establishes a legal basis for consultation
and cooperation with NGOs. The General Council
recognized the role of NGOs in raising awareness
about the WTO in a declaration in 1996.

A session at the 2016 Public Forum co-organized by
the World Farmers’ Organisation.

Relations with non‑governmental organizations
www.wto.org/ngos
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

143

-----------------------Page 147 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with
parliamentarians
The 2016 Parliamentary Conference on the WTO was held on the theme of “What
Future for the WTO?” The participants welcomed the successful outcome of the
Nairobi Ministerial Conference and stressed that mega regional trade agreements
should work alongside multilateral accords. Parliamentarians hailed the ministerial
decision on export competition as the most significant step adopted by the WTO in
agriculture. The WTO organized several regional workshops with parliamentarians
during the year to increase understanding of the multilateral trading system.

The Parliamentary Conference on the WTO, meeting on
13‑14 June 2016 at the WTO’s headquarters, expressed
strong support for the multilateral trading system.
Parliamentarians from around the world welcomed decisions
taken by the WTO’s 10th Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in
December 2015. They called the decision on export
competition (see page 35) the most significant agreement on
agriculture since the creation of the WTO in 1995. Participants
urged all WTO members to ratify the Trade Facilitation
Agreement (TFA) (see page 73). They also called for new
export opportunities to be created for service providers from
least-developed countries (LDCs) under the LDC services
waiver and the simplification of regulations governing rules of
origin (see pages 75 and 65, respectively).
The Steering Committee of the Inter-Parliamentary Union
(IPU) on WTO matters, comprising about 30 parliamentarians,
met in February in Brussels and in September in Geneva
during the WTO’s Public Forum (see page 140). The IPU is the
international organization of parliaments. Participation in these

Background on contact with parliamentarians
Parliamentarians play an important role in the
multilateral trading system and the WTO due to
their constitutional role. Any deal resulting from
intergovernmental negotiations at the WTO will, in most
cases, need approval from legislators. The WTO seeks
to maintain an open dialogue with parliamentarians
and to help them gain a deeper understanding of the
organization and its work. The WTO participates in
parliamentary body meetings and organizes workshops
for parliamentarians at national and regional levels.

DDG Brauner addressing the Parliamentary
Conference on the WTO in June 2016.

meetings by senior WTO staff, the Chair of the WTO General
Council and Geneva-based ambassadors provides a means
to brief legislators on important issues facing the multilateral
trading system. On both occasions, WTO Deputy Director-

Contact with parliamentarians
www.wto.org/parliamentarians

144

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 148 End-----------------------

The Parliamentary
Conference on
the WTO met on
13‑14 June at the
WTO’s headquarters.

General Karl Brauner addressed the Committee, briefing
members of parliament (MPs) on work at the WTO.
A parliamentary session was held during the Public Forum
on “How can global value chains make trade more inclusive?
– A legislative perspective”. Speakers included members of
the European Parliament and members of national assemblies
from Pakistan and Indonesia. A speaker from the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) also
addressed the session.

Regional workshops and meetings

The workshops are part of regular WTO cooperation with
various regional parliamentary associations, foundations and
think tanks. These regional workshops complement national
workshops for parliamentarians, which are carried out as part
of the WTO’s regular technical assistance work. The aim
of the workshops is to generate greater understanding of
the multilateral trading system and to provide a forum for
participants to exchange ideas.

Outreach

In 2016, the WTO organized three regional workshops for
MPs from Asia, Africa and the Caribbean. The WTO teamed
up with the Organization Internationale de la Francophonie for

the African event held in Madagascar, which also included the
private sector and civil society organizations. The Caribbean
event was held in Trinidad and Tobago and organized jointly
with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. The Asia
event was held in Singapore and organized jointly with the
TEMASEK Foundation. This was the seventh time that the
event has been held in Singapore. The three events attracted
over 100 participants overall.

Contact with parliamentarians
www.wto.org/parliamentarians
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

145

-----------------------Page 149 End-----------------------

Outreach

Cooperation with other
international organizations
In 2016, the WTO cooperated with other intergovernmental organizations on many
trade-related issues. Director-General Roberto Azevêdo participated in events
organized by the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund and attended the G20 summit in Hangzhou, China. The WTO continued to
publish reports on G20 trade and investment measures, together with UNCTAD
and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).

United Nations
DG Azevêdo attended the autumn meeting of the United
Nations Chief Executives Board (CEB) – a high‑level body
composed of the executive heads of UN agencies, funds and
programmes as well as the executive heads of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank and the WTO.
The role of the CEB, chaired by the UN Secretary‑General,
is to enhance international cooperation on global issues.
WTO Secretariat officials also participate in meetings of
the Board’s subsidiary bodies dealing with programme and
management issues.
The Director‑General participated in the 14th Session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD) held in Nairobi with the overall theme of “From
Decisions to Actions”. The Director‑General and Deputy
Director‑General Yonov Frederick Agah took part in official
meetings and roundtables; they also held numerous bilateral
meetings with heads of delegations taking part in UNCTAD 14.
The WTO is part of the UN Secretary General‑led High‑Level
Task Force (UN HLTF), which brings together 23 UN agencies
and international organizations to enhance coordination in
global food security responses. In 2016, the HLTF began to
focus on the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.

Background on cooperation with other
international organizations
The WTO works closely with other intergovernmental
organizations and regional bodies, especially those
involved in trade-related issues. This cooperation
helps to ensure coordinated action and a consistent
approach to international trade policies.

The task force offers high-level policy coordination and political
leadership from the UN system, with the aim of achieving the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) related to food and
nutrition security and to sustainable agriculture and
food systems.
On 10 November, DG Azevêdo presented then UN
Secretary‑General Ban Ki-moon with the WTO Ministerial
Decision on Export Competition, which delivers a key
contribution to meeting the SDG on “Zero Hunger”.
The SDGs are the centrepiece of the UN’s 2030 Sustainable
Development Agenda. The Ministerial Decision, taken at the
WTO’s Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December 2015
(see page 35), eliminates agricultural export subsidies and
measures with equivalent effect, thereby making a major
contribution to the UN target.
The WTO works closely with UNCTAD and the International
Trade Centre (ITC) on various aspects of SDG monitoring.
An early result of this collaboration was a joint chapter on
“international trade as an engine for development” in a 2016
report by the Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for
Development. The report maps out the commitments and
action points contained in the Addis Ababa Action Agenda
(see page 99) and lays out how the Task Force will monitor
their implementation in future years. Work related to the
SDGs and Agenda 2030 is coordinated by the “Geneva
Trade Cluster”.

One of the targets of
SDG 2 is to correct and
prevent distortions in world
agricultural markets,
including the elimination of
all forms of agricultural
export subsidies.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

146

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 150 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo
participated in the
14th meeting of
UNCTAD in Nairobi,
Kenya, in July 2016.

The WTO and UNCTAD continued to cooperate in providing
training and technical assistance to developing countries and
LDCs, building on the declaration signed by DG Azevêdo

and Secretary-General Kituyi in October 2015 to strengthen
collaboration between the two organizations. The heads of
the WTO and UNCTAD signed a declaration in October
2015 to strengthen this collaboration, committing them to
work together to harness trade as a tool for development and
poverty alleviation.
The WTO also cooperates with UNCTAD within the framework
of the UN inter-agency “cluster” on trade and productive
capacity, which aims to coordinate trade and development
operations throughout the UN system. At the UNCTAD
Ministerial Meeting in Nairobi in July, Deputy Director-General
Yonov Frederick Agah took part in a session on a planned
multi-donor trust fund for the cluster, together with officials
from UNCTAD, the ITC, the International Labour Organization
(ILO), the UN Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization
(UNIDO). The agencies confirmed their intention to establish
the fund, which will seek to attract further resources for
coordinated action.
UNCTAD is also a major WTO partner on programmes such as
the Enhanced Integrated Framework (EIF) (see page 130) and
the Joint Integrated Technical Assistance Programme, which
provides technical assistance to selected LDCs and other
African countries.

International Trade Centre (ITC)
The WTO and UNCTAD jointly sponsor the ITC, a trade
promotion body for developing countries. The WTO also
collaborates with ITC and UNCTAD in the annual publication of
the World Tariff Profiles (see page 160).
DG Azevêdo presented UN Secretary‑General
Ban Ki-moon with the WTO Ministerial
Decision on Export Competition, which
delivers a key target of SDG 2.

The WTO works closely with the ITC to provide the support
that developing countries need to implement and benefit from
WTO agreements. In addition to the collaboration noted above,
the WTO and ITC are also working together in the Business

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

147

Outreach

The three organizations also produced a joint paper on “trade
as an engine for development” as part of the Task Force’s
“Issue Brief Series”. Published in July 2016, the paper
highlights how trade promotes sustainable development and
serves as an engine for inclusive economic growth and poverty
reduction. It looks at export trends of developing and leastdeveloped countries (LDCs), market access conditions
affecting trade between developing countries and the effects
of trade costs.

-----------------------Page 151 End-----------------------

Outreach

DG Azevêdo speaking
at the opening of the
WIPO-WHO-WTO Joint
Technical Symposium
on Antimicrobial
Resistance in
October 2016.

for Development initiative, which aims to help the private sector
in developing countries define national priorities for WTO
negotiations and encourage governments to be mindful of
business concerns.
The ITC’s Joint Advisory Group (JAG) meets annually to
make recommendations on the ITC’s work programme.
The 50th session of the JAG was held on 4 July at the WTO.
The report of the meeting was presented to the WTO’s
Committee on Trade and Development and was subsequently
adopted by the General Council.

Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD)

Other intergovernmental organizations
The WTO cooperates on trade issues and on the
needs of developing countries with several other
intergovernmental organizations.
In October, the WTO held a joint technical workshop with the
World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Intellectual
Property Organization (WIPO). Thirty-five government
officials from 30 developing countries and five developed
countries attended the workshop on trade and public health
(see page 80). The objective was to increase the capacity of
participants to analyse and formulate policies at the interface
between trade and public health.

The OECD and the WTO cooperate in a wide range of areas,
including in the Trade in Value‑Added (TiVA) database (see
page 159), launched in January 2013. The WTO released in
January 2016 new statistical profiles on global value chains
(GVCs) for 61 economies. These profiles, available on the
WTO website, bring together a set of indicators on trade
taking place within GVCs. Measuring trade in terms of value
added gives a clearer picture of today’s way of trading than the
traditional statistics based on customs returns.
To improve the database, the two organizations also teamed up
to produce estimates of services trade based on the Extended
Balance of Payments Services Classification of the IMF.
The OECD and WTO are also cooperating on the development
of a set of trade facilitation indicators (TFIs). This interactive
web tool covers 152 countries. The TFIs identify areas for
action and assess the potential impact of trade facilitation
reforms so that governments can prioritize action and mobilize
technical assistance.

DG Azevêdo speaking at an event entitled “Making
Trade an Engine of Growth for All” held at the IMF’s
headquarters in Washington in October 2016.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs

148

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 152 End-----------------------

The WTO Secretariat attends sessions of the ILO Governing
Body and the International Labour Conference as an observer
and participates in meetings of the Governing Body’s Working
Party on the Social Dimension of Globalization. The ILO and
the WTO are undertaking research on the role that skillsdevelopment policies can play in making trade an engine of
inclusive growth.

The G20 leaders endorsed the outcome of the G20 trade
ministers meeting, welcomed the establishment of the G20
Trade and Investment Working Group (TIWG) and committed
to further strengthen G20 trade and investment cooperation.
The TIWG acts as a forum for high-level policy makers to
advance multilateral trade and investment agendas and to
bolster policy cooperation. The WTO has contributed a range
of discussion papers, including in collaboration with other
international organizations.

G20

On trade monitoring, the WTO published two six-monthly
reports with UNCTAD and the OECD on trade and investment
measures in G20 countries (see also page 96). The report
published in October highlighted how the uncertain global
economic outlook continued to have an adverse impact on
international trade.

In July, DG Azevêdo attended the G20 trade ministers
meeting in Shanghai, where he launched the WTO’s World
Trade Outlook Indicator (WTOI) on global trade trends (see
page 157). The trade ministers endorsed the G20 Strategy
for Global Trade Growth, committing themselves to lower
trade costs, boost trade in services, enhance trade finance,
promote e-commerce development and address trade
and development.
DG Azevêdo attended the summit of the G20 group of leading
developed and developing countries in Hangzhou, China,
in September. The G20 leaders underlined their commitment
to a rules-based and inclusive multilateral trading system and
resolved to work with other WTO members to achieve positive
outcomes at the 11th Ministerial Conference in December 2017
and beyond.

The WTO’s Agriculture and Commodities Division enhanced
its policy monitoring in the framework of the G20 Agricultural
Market Information System (AMIS), an initiative established
in 2011 to enhance food market transparency and encourage
international policy coordination. The Division attended the
G20 Rapid Response Forum, the policy coordination body
comprising senior officials from AMIS countries, and the expert
meetings of the AMIS Global Food Market Information Group.
In October 2016, the Division briefed the FAO on the policy
tools and inter-agency coordination activities created in the
context of the AMIS.

Cooperation with other international organizations
www.wto.org/otherorgs
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

149

Outreach

DG Azevêdo
participated in the
G20 summit in
Hangzhou, China,
in September 2016.

-----------------------Page 153 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with the business
community
Engagement with the business community increased significantly in 2016. In May,
the WTO facilitated a meeting of business leaders at the WTO’s headquarters at
the request of the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) and the B20, the
business arm of the G20. The event was held as part of the WTO’s “Trade Dialogues”
initiative, which aims to give stakeholders, including the business community, an
opportunity to discuss trade concerns. A follow-up event was held at the WTO’s
Public Forum, which attracted a large number of private sector representatives.

Trade Dialogues
The Trade Dialogues meeting of the business community
on 30 May was the first of its kind to be held at the WTO.
The event brought together over 60 business leaders to
discuss the challenges and opportunities they face in
conducting trade operations and how the WTO could address
the current needs of the business community. The attendees
were from small and large enterprises, from developed and
developing countries, and from a variety of sectors.
In addition to the current negotiating agenda, the business
leaders urged the WTO to look at a wide range of issues,
such as electronic commerce, rules to better facilitate
services and investment flows, support for micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises, action to provide trade finance,
and many others.
The views of other important stakeholders, such as consumers,
represented by Consumers International, and labour,
represented by the International Trade Union Confederation,
were also heard in a separate session of the meeting.

Background on contact with the
business community
Business and the WTO have always been closely
connected. The private sector is a major beneficiary
of transparent and predictable trade rules and
obligations. Business is an important interlocutor
for both governments and the WTO. It is actively
involved in the multilateral trading system and
participates in public activities of the WTO.

60
Over 60 business
leaders attended
the inaugural
“Trade Dialogues”
event at the WTO
in May 2016.

Following the 30 May meeting, the discussion among the
business representatives continued in two groups. The first
group focused on e-commerce and on micro, small and
medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) while the second group
focused on improving market access, trade in services
and investment facilitation. ICC and the German Business
Federation (BDI) shared the results of these discussions at a
dedicated session during the Public Forum (see below).
John Danilovich, Secretary-General of the ICC, reported that
ideas discussed by the first group ranged from enhancing
connectivity and providing capacity building to MSMEs to
helping MSMEs sell goods online more efficiently. The group
suggested creating digital trade rules to support e-commerce
growth and to improve consumer trust.
Dr Stormy-Annika Mildner, BDI head of foreign trade policy,
said the second group called for a roll-back of trade-restrictive
measures, the revitalization of WTO trade negotiations,
new plurilateral initiatives and the rapid and effective
implementation of the Trade Facilitation Agreement (see
page 73). It also called for strengthening rules for trade in
services, investment facilitation and regional trade agreements

Contact with the business community
www.wto.org/business

150

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 154 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo
participated in the
B20 summit in
Hangzhou, China,
in September 2016
for discussions with
international business
representatives.

“The Trade Dialogues process is an important opportunity
for business to bring ideas and technical expertise to support
the development of the WTO system. We believe that with the
right global policies in place there is an opportunity to unleash
a new era of inclusive trade; one in which all companies —
regardless of size, sector or location — can benefit from equal
access to the global trading system,” John Danilovich declared.

Public Forum
The WTO’s 2016 Public Forum in September (see page 140)
drew 180 business representatives to its debates and
meetings on the theme of “inclusive trade”, up from 170
in 2015 and 20 per cent more than in 2014. Businesses
organized 22 sessions during the three-day event, covering
topics such as e-commerce, small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs), women and trade, and the future
trade agenda.
Session organizers included the ICC, World SME Forum,
Huawei Technologies, SPINNA Circle Ltd, BusinessEurope,
a representative voice of the European business community,
the Federation of German business Industries, the Association
of Organisations of Mediterranean Business Women,
the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry,

EUROCHAMBERS (the European association of chambers of
commerce), the Semiconductor Industry Association and the
National Foreign Trade Council.

Other contact with businesses
Throughout the year, WTO officials met with members of the
business community visiting Geneva and held meetings with
business representatives during visits overseas. The issues
most frequently discussed included the state of play in
the WTO’s trade negotiations post-Nairobi (see page 32),
the ratification of the Trade Facilitation Agreement and
dispute settlement.
In May, Director-General Roberto Azevêdo met with Markus
Beyer, Director-General of BusinessEurope. The group has
shown particular interest in engaging on issues such as the
digital economy, investment and transparency in procurement
practices. In June, the DG participated in the ICC World
Council and the ICC Brazil Business Day in São Paulo, Brazil.
The WTO’s web pages dedicated to the business community
(www.wto.org/business) and its regular electronic newsletter
continue to be important channels of communication with
the private sector, providing the latest updates on trade
negotiations, trade statistics and new initiatives aimed at
encouraging dialogue with the business community.

Contact with the business community
www.wto.org/business
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

151

Outreach

in line with the multilateral process and for improved rules on
regulatory issues and competition, she said.

-----------------------Page 155 End-----------------------

Outreach

Contact with the media
The WTO organized 49 press events, including press conferences and briefings, in
2016 and expanded its worldwide outreach to journalists. In addition, journalists were
invited to seminars, book launches and the Public Forum, the WTO’s flagship outreach
event. Six training activities were held for journalists, both in Geneva and elsewhere.

Journalists attended over 40 press briefings during the year,
covering issues such as dispute settlement, trade negotiations
and meetings of the General Council (see Figure 3). DirectorGeneral Azevêdo engaged with media throughout the year,
including many dozens of interviews and press conferences.
Two press conferences were held at the WTO to announce
the WTO’s trade forecast in April and the outcome of the
Trade Dialogues event in May (see page 150), which brought
together over 60 business leaders to discuss trade challenges
and opportunities.
Figure 3: Meetings/subjects covered by WTO briefings/
press conferences in 2016
Anti-dumping

2

Agriculture

5

Dispute settlement
General Council/
Heads of Delegations
Goods

11
11
3

Government procurement

2

Rules/fisheries subsidies

1

Safeguards
Sanitary and
phytosanitary measures
Services
Subsidies and
countervailing measures
Technican barriers to trade

2
2

Training activities
In 2016, the WTO organized six training activities for
journalists. Ten Russian and Belarussian journalists attended
an information seminar at the WTO in March, covering issues
such as the latest developments in WTO negotiations, dispute
settlement and regional trade agreements.
Twelve journalists from developing and least‑developed
countries participated in an information seminar in April.
The programme covered topics ranging from the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference to global value chains. Participants
heard presentations from WTO Secretariat officials and had
the opportunity to meet with the heads of delegations of
various WTO members. Financial support for both events was
provided by the Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, a German foundation.
WTO press officers also participated in national and regional
outreach activities for media, parliamentarians and civil
society in Colombia, Madagascar, Singapore, and Trinidad
and Tobago.

2
2
1

Trade Dialogues with business
Trade Policy Reviews
(China, Russia, United States)
World trade in 2015/
prospects for 2016-17

In July, DG Azevêdo and Chinese Minister of Commerce Gao
Hucheng met with the press in Shanghai for the launch of the
WTO’s new World Trade Outlook Indicator (see page 158),
designed to provide “real time” information on trends in global
trade. The DG also delivered a keynote speech to the National
Press Club in Washington, D.C. in October.

1
3
1

0

2

4

6

8

10

12

The WTO received 186 requests in 2016 for registration to the
media newsroom of the WTO website, reflecting increased
media interest in WTO activities. The newsroom gives
journalists access to information under embargo and advance
warning of press events. The number of journalists registered
stood at over 1,900 at the end of 2016.
The media were invited to various workshops, book launches
and seminars at the WTO. These included a workshop on
enhancing the participation of micro, small and medium
enterprises (MSMEs) in international trade and the Trade
Dialogues lecture series, where academic experts share their
insights on trade-related developments (see page 150).

Training event at the WTO for journalists from Africa and Asia.

Contact with the media
www.wto.org/media

152

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 156 End-----------------------

Contact with the public
The WTO makes use of various channels of communication, such as the WTO website
and social media, to engage with the public. The website received just over 20 million
visits in 2016 while our social media channels attracted increasing numbers of
followers. Video clips on the WTO website were watched over 200,000 times on average
each month. Over 70 WTO publications were produced, with five book launches held
at the WTO during the year. The WTO welcomed 208 visiting groups in 2016.

Figure 4: People registered to receive email alerts,
as of end-2016

The WTO website attracted almost 1.7 million visits a month.
In 2016, total page views rose to 52.9 million, compared with
47.8 million the previous year. A total of 15.4 per cent of the
visitors were from the United States, followed by 5.9 per cent
from India, 5.7 per cent from Mexico and 4.4 per cent from
China. Over 2,000 web pages were created or updated during
the course of the year.
The most downloaded files in 2016 were two WTO flagship
publications, International Trade Statistics 2015 (over 250,000
downloads) and the World Trade Report (over 80,000),
followed by Global Value Chains in a Changing World (over
50,000). The new “World Trade Statistical Review”, published
in July, was downloaded nearly 40,000 times. The most
popular video in 2016, with over 250,000 views, was an
interview on the WTO’s dispute settlement system with
the late Professor John Jackson of Georgetown University,
United States.
The number of people registered to receive email alerts
when news items are published on the website stands at
just over 85,000. The largest categories for these alerts
are university students (31 per cent), government officials
(12 per cent), the business community (12 per cent),
the academic community (10 per cent) and lawyers
(8 per cent) (see Figure 4). The countries with the largest
number of registrations are India (11 per cent), the United
States (8 per cent), Mexico (5 per cent), France (4 per cent),
Colombia (4 per cent) and China (4 per cent).

1.7 million
The WTO website
attracted almost
1.7 million visits a
month in 2016.

Parliamentarians 0.1%
Other journalists 2.1%
NGO representatives 2.4%
Students (high school) 2.5%
Accredited media 2.6%
University
professors 3.3%

Students
(university) 31.2%

Lawyers 7.6%

Other
academics
9.6%

Business
representatives
12.0%

Other 14.2%
Government officials 12.2%

Social media
Social media remain a key means of providing regular updates
about WTO activities to the wider public. Publication of
infographics, short video statements and regular updates
about the latest developments at the WTO were well received
by users of social media. In April, the WTO held its first Twitter
chat, featuring Chief Economist Robert Koopman talking about
the WTO’s forecasts for global trade.
At the end of 2016, the WTO’s Twitter account had increased
to over 275,000 followers. The WTO Facebook page grew
by 27 per cent, with almost 250,000 “likes”. DirectorGeneral Roberto Azevêdo’s Twitter account is followed by
nearly 13,000 users. The WTO is also active on Weibo,
a Chinese social media platform, with over 600,000 followers.

Contact with the public
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

153

Outreach

WTO website

-----------------------Page 157 End-----------------------

Outreach
The audience for the WTO’s social media activities includes
WTO delegates, students, journalists, businesspeople,
academics and the general public.

275,000
At the end of 2016, the
WTO’s Twitter account
had increased to over
275,000 followers.

WTO videos
New WTO videos included several short videos produced
exclusively for dissemination on social media platforms; longer
videos were produced to explain certain trade issues. “Imagine
Inclusive Trade”, a video first shown during the Public Forum,
highlights some of the challenges faced by small businesses,
new companies and women in accessing global markets.

WTO publications
Seventy‑two WTO publications were produced in 2016,
including apps of the Annual Report and the World Trade
Report. Five book launches were held at the WTO. Three
of these took place at the Public Forum – the World Trade
Report, Regional Trade Agreements and the Multilateral
Trading System and African Perspectives on Trade and
the WTO. Two books were launched at the WTO Chairs
Programme Annual Conference: Trade Costs and Inclusive
Growth – Case Studies Presented by WTO Chair-holders
(see page 163); and An Advanced Guide to Trade Policy
Analysis: The Structural Gravity Model (see page 157).
The vast majority of WTO publications can be downloaded free
of charge from the WTO website in the WTO’s three official
languages: English, French and Spanish. Printed copies can be
purchased from a global network of distributors and from the
WTO online bookshop at http://onlinebookshop.wto.org
Apps of the Annual Report and the World Trade Report can be
downloaded from the App Store and Google Play for viewing
on tablets and mobile phones.

An average of 211,000 video clips were watched or
downloaded on the WTO website each month in 2016, with an
additional 180,000 views via social media during the year.
Videos about the Public Forum, trade forecasts and the Nairobi
Ministerial Conference were the most watched recent videos.

The WTO’s Publications Facebook page has over 48,000
fans, up from 45,000 in 2016, and its Twitter page has over
60,000 followers, an 18 per cent increase on the previous year.
WTO Publications also has a presence on Foursquare,
Google+ and Pinterest. A digital newsletter, “Book News”,
is sent regularly to over 90,000 recipients.

Visiting groups

Flagship publications

In 2016, the WTO welcomed 208 visiting groups, who wished
to find out more about WTO activities and the workplace of
the WTO. The total number of visitors was just under 6,000.
Presentations to visitors covered the history of the WTO and
its current work. Some visiting groups requested presentations
on specific WTO topics, such as dispute settlement,
agriculture, development and intellectual property.
Most presentations (70 per cent) were given in English;
17 per cent in French and 4 per cent in Chinese. The remaining
9 per cent were given in German, Korean, Russian, Italian,
Turkish, Portuguese and Ukrainian.

208
The WTO welcomed
208 visiting groups
in 2016.

Contact with the public
www.wto.org

154

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

Annual Report 2016
ISBN 978-92-870-4073-2 | CHF 50
The Annual Report contains a message
from the Director-General, an overview
of the past year and in-depth accounts
of the WTO’s various areas of activity
over the past 12 months.

Annual
Report
2016

Annual Report 2016 app
Free
The Annual Report app can be
downloaded from the App Store and
Google Play for viewing on tablets
and mobile phones. The app includes
an interactive quiz and the full text of
the Annual Report plus videos, photo
galleries and interactive maps.

Publications
www.wto.org/publications

-----------------------Page 158 End-----------------------

World Trade Report 2016 –
Levelling the trading field for SMEs

World Tariff Profiles 2016

World Trade Report 2016

ISBN 978-92-870- 4116-6 | CHF 50

Today’s increasingly interconnected global economy is transforming what is traded and
who is trading. International trade has long been dominated by large companies. But
thanks to dramatically reduced trade barriers, improved transportation links, information
technologies and the emergence of global value chains, many small and medium-sized
enterprises – SMEs – now have the potential to become successful global traders as well.
Participation in international trade, once exclusive, can progressively become
more inclusive.

ISBN 978-92-870-4076-3 | CHF 60

The World Trade Report 2016 examines the participation of SMEs in international trade.
In particular, it looks at how the international trade landscape is changing for SMEs,
where new opportunities are opening up and old challenges remain, and what the
multilateral trading system does and can do to encourage more widespread and
inclusive SME participation in global markets.

2016

Levelling the trading
field for SMEs

Levelling the trading field for SMEs

The World Trade Report 2016 examines
the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises (SMEs) in international
trade. It looks at how the international
trade landscape is changing for SMEs
and what the multilateral trading system
can do to encourage more widespread
SME participation in global markets.

WORLD TRADE
REPORT

World Trade Report 2016

The Report finds that small businesses continue to face disproportionate barriers to trade
and highlights the scope for coherent national and international policy actions that would
enhance the ability of SMEs to participate in world markets more effectively. It underlines
that participation in trade has an important role to play in helping SMEs become more
productive and grow. For open trade and global integration to fully benefit everyone,
it is crucial to ensure that all firms – not just large corporations – can succeed in today’s
global marketplace.

ISBN 978-92-870-4076-3

Cover image: A small weaving enterprise in Ubud, Bali.
Copyright: Lynn Gail/Getty Images.

World Tariff Profiles 2016 provides
comprehensive information on the
tariffs and non-tariff measures imposed
by over 170 countries and customs
territories. It is jointly published by the
WTO, the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
and the International Trade Centre (ITC).

World Trade Report 2016 app

Boxed set of WTO statistical
titles 2016

Free

ISBN 978-92-870-4122-7 | CHF 120

The World Trade Report app can be
downloaded from the App Store and
Google Play for viewing on tablets and
mobile phones. The app includes the
full text of the report plus the underlying
data for all charts and tables in Excel
format. It also contains a video and
photos of the launch event.

The set comprises the WTO’s three
annual statistical publications: the
World Trade Statistical Review 2016,
Trade Profiles 2016 and World Tariff
Profiles 2016.

Where to find more online:
www.wto.org/statistics

World Trade Statistical Review
World Tariff Profiles
Trade Profiles

Trade Profiles 2016

World Tariff Profiles 2016

Comprehensive data
on global trade

Trade Policy Reviews
The Trade Policy Reviews analyse the
trade policies and practices of WTO
members. In 2016, 35 reviews were
published, covering meetings held in
2015 and in 2016. The TPRs covered
Georgia, Morocco, Fiji, Turkey, Maldives,
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Ukraine,
Malawi, Honduras, Albania, the United
Arab Emirates, Zambia, China, Tunisia
and Singapore.

Trade Policy Review

Monitoring the trade policies and practices of WTO
members is a fundamentally important activity
of the WTO. All WTO members are reviewed at
regular intervals, according to their share of
world trade. Each Trade Policy Review consists
of three parts: a report by the government under
review, a report written independently by the WTO
Secretariat, and the concluding remarks by the
Chair of the Trade Policy Review Body. A highlights
section provides an overview of key trade facts.

World Trade Statistical
Review 2016
ISBN 978-92-870-4110-4 | CHF 50
This new publication replaces the
WTO’s annual flagship publication,
International Trade Statistics. It provides
a detailed analysis of the latest
developments in world trade, focusing
on the most recent trends in goods and
services trade and the participation of
developing economies in world trade.

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 21
Switzerland
Tel. +41 (0)22 739 51 11
Fax +41 (0)22 739 42 06
Email: enquiries@wto.org
Website: www.wto.org

ISBN
ISBN 978-92-870-4079-4
978-92-870-4079-4

Georgia 2016

9 789287 040794

Dispute Settlement Reports 2015

Dispute Settlement Reports 2015
Volume I: Pages 1 to 576

Dispute Settlement Reports 2015
Volume I: Pages 1 to 576

9781107188242 WTO – DISPUTE SETTLEMENT REPORTS 2015 VOL. 1 PPC C M Y K

World Trade
organizaTion
World Trade
organizaTion

Dispute Settlement Reports 2015
provides the full texts of panel reports,
Appellate Body reports and arbitration
awards issued by the WTO in 2015.
Eleven volumes were published in
2016. Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

Other annual publications
Trade Profiles 2016

ISBN 978-92-870-4378-8

World Trade Statistical Review 2016

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 21
Switzerland
Tel. switchboard: +41 (0)22 739 51 11
Fax: +41 (0)22 731 42 06
Email: enquiries@wto.org
Website: www.wto.org

2016

2015

Trade Profiles 2016 provides a series
of key indicators on trade in goods

ISBN 978-92-870-4113-5 | CHF 50
and services for 195 economies. For

Outreach

merchandise trade, major exports and
imports are listed for both agricultural

and non-agricultural products as well as
major origins and destinations for these

products. For trade in services, a detailed

breakdown is provided for transport, travel
and other commercial services. Statistics

Trade Profiles 2016

on intellectual property are also provided.
The information is available for all WTO
members and observers and for other
selected economies.

Trade Profiles 2016 provides a series
of key indicators on trade in goods and
services for 195 economies. For each
economy, the data is presented in a
handy two-page format, providing a
concise overview of global trade.
For each economy, the data is presented
in a handy two-page format, providing

a concise overview of global trade. The

Trade in
commercial
services

publication is an invaluable reference tool
for anyone looking for essential trade
statistics.

Transport

Other
commercial
services

Merchandise
trade
Agricultural
products
Nonagricultural
products

WTO Dispute Settlement: One-Page
Case Summaries, 1995-2014
(2015 edition)
ISBN 978-92-870-4009-1 | CHF 40

DIT

IO

N

WTO Dispute Settlement:
One-Page Case Summaries
1995–2014

2015 EDITION

One-Page Case Summaries provides
a succinct summary of the key findings
of every dispute panel report up to the
end of 2014 and, where applicable,
the subsequent Appellate Body report.

20
15
E
WTO Dispute Settlement: One-Page Case Summaries

Industrial
property

Trade Profiles 2016

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 21
Switzerland
Tel. +41 (0)22 739 51 11
email: enquiries@wto.org
Website: www.wto.org

Travel

Publications
www.wto.org/publications
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

155

-----------------------Page 159 End-----------------------

Outreach

New publications
Agriculture – Third Edition – WTO
Agreements Series

The WTO Agreements Series
Agriculture

This publication outlines one of the most
successful tools for the analysis of trade
policy and provides practical guidance
on how to apply it. Co‑published by
the WTO and the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development
(UNCTAD), the book is a follow‑up to A
Practical Guide to Trade Policy Analysis.

The WTO Agreements Series Agriculture

This new edition provides an
introduction to the WTO’s Agreement
on Agriculture, outlining its key
principles, the work of the Agriculture
Committee and how disputes have
interpreted WTO law on agriculture.
It includes the full text of the Agriculture
Agreement, as well as the decisions
taken on agriculture at the 2013 and
2015 WTO ministerial conferences.
World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH - 1211 Geneva 21
Switzerland

' + 41 (0)22 739 51 11
7 + 41 (0)22 731 42 06
@ enquiries@wto.org
 www.wto.org

World Trade
Organization

Regional Trade Agreements
and the Multilateral
Trading System
Edited by Rohini Acharya

9 789287 041241

Cover illustration: © Oxford, Getty Images.
Cover design: Sue Watson

Patrick Low is a visiting professor at the University of Hong Kong and a fellow
at the Asian Global Institute. He was formerly Chief Economist at the World Trade
Organization and previously worked at the GATT Secretariat.
Chiedu Osakwe is Advisor to the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria while he is on special leave from the WTO. In the
WTO, he has worked as director of various divisions for many years, including
most recently Director of the Accessions Division.
Maika Oshikawa is Officer in Charge of the Accessions Division of the WTO,
having served in various divisions within the WTO Secretariat, including most
recently as Head of the Asia Pacific Desk in the Institute for Training and
Technical Cooperation.

Africa is in a process of economic
transformation, but challenges remain
in areas such as structural reform,
governance, commodity pricing and
geopolitics. This publication offers
expert insights into how Africa can
achieve deeper integration into
the multilateral trading system and
global economy. Co-published with
Cambridge University Press.

Edited by Patrick Low, Chiedu Osakwe and Maika Oshikawa

Low, Osakwe
and Oshikawa

Low, Osakwe & Oshikawa 9781107074474 PPC. C M Y K

ISBN 978-1-316-62652-8| CHF 40

World Trade
Organization

African Perspectives on
Trade and the WTO

African Perspectives on
Trade and the WTO

Twenty-first century Africa is in a process of economic transformation, but
challenges remain in areas such as structural reform, governance, commodity
pricing and geopolitics. This book looks into key questions facing the continent,
such as how Africa can achieve deeper integration into the rules-based multilateral trading system and the global economy. It provides a range of perspectives
on the future of the multilateral trading system and Africa’s participation in global
trade and underlines the supportive roles that can be played by multilateral and
regional institutions during such a rapid and uncertain transition.
This volume is based on contributions to the Fourth China Round Table on WTO
Accessions and the Multilateral Trading System, which took place just before the
WTO's Tenth Ministerial Conference in Nairobi in December 2015.

World Trade
Organization

African Perspectives on Trade and
the WTO: Domestic Reforms,
Structural Transformation and
Global Economic Integration

Cover image: Kenyatta International Convention Centre, Nairobi
(Neil Cooper / Alamy Stock Photo).
Series cover design: Sue Watson

The book looks into how the Aid for Trade initiative can
assist with implementing the TFA, the importance of
mainstreaming trade into national development strategies,
and the potential impact of the TFA in various regions.

The publication looks at how
implementation of the WTO’s Trade
Facilitation Agreement can help to
reduce trade costs and promote
growth. The publication brings together
contributions from ten participants
in the WTO Chairs Programme,
which supports trade-related
activities by academic institutions in
developing countries.

Domestic Reforms, Structural Transformation
and Global Economic Integration

WTO ISBN

Case studies presented by WTO chair-holders

Acharya 9781107161641 PPC. C M Y K

Rohini Acharya is a Counsellor with the World Trade Organization. She has a
PhD in Economics and joined the WTO’s Trade Policies Review Division in 1996,
becoming Chief of its Regional Trade Agreements Section in January 2007.
Previously she worked as Senior Research Fellow at the International
Economics Programme of the Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham
House) in London. Her work at the WTO has included the trade policy reviews
of several WTO members, including Australia, Egypt, India, New Zealand, and
Singapore, and the first Trade Policy Review of China.

ISBN 978-92-870-4375-5 | CHF 50
Trade costs and inclusive growth looks at how
implementation of the WTO’s Trade Facilitation
Agreement (TFA) can help to reduce trade costs
and promote growth. The publication brings together
contributions from ten participants in the WTO Chairs
Programme, which supports trade-related activities by
academic institutions in developing countries.

Acharya

This publication contains a collection
of studies examining issues negotiated
in regional trade agreements (RTAs)
and how WTO rules relate to new
rules being developed by RTAs.
Co-published with Cambridge
University Press.

Case studies presented by WTO chair-holders

Trade costs and inclusive growth -

ISBN 978-1-316-61401-3 | CHF 70

Yoto V. Yotov,
Roberta Piermartini,
José-Antonio Monteiro,
and Mario Larch

Trade costs and
inclusive growth

Regional Trade Agreements and
the Multilateral Trading System

The book contains a collection of studies examining trade-related issues
negotiated in regional trade agreements (RTAs) and how RTAs are related to
the WTO’s rules. While previous work has focused on subsets of RTAs, these
studies are based on what is probably the largest dataset used to date, and
highlight key issues that have been negotiated in all RTAs notified to the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and the World Trade Organization (WTO). New rules within RTAs are compared to rules agreed upon by WTO
members. The extent of their divergences and the potential implications for
parties to RTAs, as well as for WTO members that are not parties to RTAs, are
examined. This volume makes an important contribution to the current debate
on the role of the WTO in regulating international trade and how WTO rules
relate to new rules being developed by RTAs.

Trade Costs and Inclusive Growth:
Case Studies Presented by
WTO Chair-holders

World Trade
Organization

Regional Trade Agreements and
the Multilateral Trading System

ISBN 978‑92‑870‑4123‑4 | CHF 40

Third edition

ISBN 978-92-870-4022-0 | CHF 30

An Advanced Guide to
Trade Policy Analysis:
The Structural Gravity Model

An Advanced Guide to Trade Policy Analysis: The Structural Gravity Model

An Advanced Guide to Trade
Policy Analysis: The Structural
Gravity Model

Trade costs and inclusive
growth
Case studies presented by WTO chair-holders

Edited by
Robert Teh
Maarten Smeets
Mustapha Sadni Jallab
Fatima Chaudhri

978-92-870-4124-1

Trade Finance and SMEs: Bridging
the Gaps in Provision
ISBN 978-92-870-4070-1 | Free

Trade finance
and SMEs

Trade finance can play a key role
in helping developing countries
participate in global trade, helping small
businesses grow and supporting the
development of the poorest countries.
This publication examines this issue
and emphasizes the importance of
multilateral agencies working together
in response.

Bridging the gaps in provision

Publications
www.wto.org/publications

156

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 160 End-----------------------

Economic research
activities
The WTO’s Economic Research and Statistics Division (ERSD) organized a wide range
of outreach activities in 2016, including the launch of the WTO’s flagship publication
– the World Trade Report – and a new book on trade analysis. It participated in
workshops, including the Fifth IMF-World Bank-WTO Joint Trade Research Workshop.
It launched a new series of lectures on economic and policy developments as
part of the WTO’s Trade Dialogues initiative. In 2016, the WTO launched the World
Trade Outlook Indicator (WTOI) giving “real time” information on trade trends.

The WTO’s flagship publication,
the World Trade Report, was launched
by Director-General Roberto Azevêdo
in September. The Report examines
the participation of small and
medium‑sized enterprises (SMEs) in
international trade, how the
international trade landscape is
changing for SMEs, and what the
multilateral trading system can do to
encourage more widespread SME
participation in global markets.
The report finds that small businesses
continue to face disproportionate
barriers to trade and highlights the
scope for policy actions that would
help SMEs participate more actively in
world markets.
DG Azevêdo launched the WTO’s flagship
publication, the World Trade Report, at
the Public Forum in September 2016.

Background on economic research activities
The WTO’s Economic Research and Statistics Division
organizes regular seminars and conferences as well
as online forums involving academics and researchers
in Geneva and around the world. These activities
include the Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
programme. It is responsible for the WTO’s flagship
publication, the World Trade Report, which aims to
deepen understanding about trends in trade, trade
policy issues and the multilateral trading system.

An Advanced Guide to Trade Policy Analysis: The Structural
Gravity Model outlines one of the most successful tools for
the analysis of trade policy and provides practical guidance
on how to apply this tool to trade policy making. The book
is a follow‑up to A Practical Guide to Trade Policy Analysis,
which was published in 2012. The series aims to enhance
researchers’ and policy makers’ understanding of economic
methods and data sources for trade policy analysis.
The Fifth Annual Trade Workshop, organized in collaboration
with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund,
was held in Washington, D.C. in November. The workshop
brought together trade experts from the three institutions to

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

157

Outreach

A new book on trade policy
analysis was launched in November
by the WTO and the United
Nations Conference on Trade
and Development (UNCTAD).

-----------------------Page 161 End-----------------------

Outreach

”An Advanced
Guide to Trade
Policy Analysis” was
launched at the WTO
in November 2016.

present ongoing research papers, to discuss current policy
issues and to identify areas of future collaboration. The papers
covered topics such as trade barriers, global value chains,
trade in services, foreign direct investment and migration,
and deepening trade integration through trade agreements.
In 2016, the Geneva Trade and Development Workshop
programme – co-organized by ERSD, the Graduate Institute’s
Centre for Trade and Economic Integration, the University of
Geneva and UNCTAD – hosted 20 events. The programme
brings together academics and researchers in the Geneva
region working in the area of trade and development.
By providing a forum for the presentation of cutting-edge
research, the programme contributes to the exchange of
ideas, supports high-quality research and facilitates outreach
to policy-makers.
In 2016, the WTO launched the World Trade Outlook Indicator
(WTOI), designed to provide “real time” information on
trends in global trade. The WTOI was unveiled in Shanghai,
China, on 8 July ahead of a meeting of G20 trade ministers.
Combining a variety of trade-related indices, the WTOI is
designed to give an early indication of trends in world trade.
It complements existing tools, such as the WTO’s longer-term
trade forecasts and other statistical releases. The WTOI will
be updated on a quarterly basis.

In June 2016, ERSD worked with Think20, a network of
research institutes and think tanks from G20 countries
providing research-based policy advice, to organize its annual
conference on “global trade and investment cooperation:
openness, inclusiveness and growth” as part of the WTO’s
Trade Dialogues series of outreach activities (see page 150).
The conference brought together a wide range of experts
for panel discussions on issues such as the future of
the multilateral trading system, the relationship between
multilateralism and regionalism, how to re-energize global trade
growth, and trade and investment policy.
In November, ERSD launched the Trade Dialogues lecture
series to allow technical experts to share their insights on
topical issues, such as the relationship between trade and
labour markets. The aim of the lectures is to promote informed
discussion on these topics at a time when negative sentiment
towards trade and globalization is on the rise.
The first lecture in the series was given in November by Lucian
Cernat from the European Commission and Professor Torben
Andersen of Aarhus University, Denmark, who discussed how
governments can adjust their policies in response to changes
in the labour market. Other lectures – on trade and technology
and wage inequality – have been given by Professor David
Dorn of the University of Zürich and Professor Eric Verhoogen
of Columbia University, New York.

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research

158

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 162 End-----------------------

WTO Essay Award for Young Economists
The Eighth WTO Essay Award for Young
Economists went to Matthieu Bellon for his
paper on trade liberalization and inequality. The
winner received a prize of CHF 5,000. The panel
also awarded an honourable mention to Eunhee
Lee for her work on trade and inequality. The
prize-winner was announced at the annual
meeting of the European Trade Study Group in
Helsinki 8-10 September 2016.

Dr Roberta
Piermartini
presents the
2016 WTO
Essay Award to
Matthieu Bellon.

The paper by Matthieu Bellon – “Trade Liberalization and
Inequality: a Dynamic Model with Firm and Worker
Heterogeneity” – focuses on the effect of trade liberalization
on wage distribution.
The paper finds that trade liberalization increases overall
welfare and provides firms with both new export markets
and new sources of competition. Expanding, high-paying
firms increase wages to recruit better workers at a faster
rate. Workers in the firms threatened by competition
accept wage cuts to delay their employers’ exit from the
market and to keep their jobs. Using firm-worker data from
France, the author shows that, following trade liberalization,
inequality initially increases. It peaks after three years but
eventually falls back to half of its peak in the longer term.
Eunhee Lee also received an honourable mention for her
paper on the effect of international trade on inequality in

developing countries, entitled. “Trade, Inequality, and the
Endogenous Sorting of Heterogeneous Workers”.
Matthieu Bellon is a French national. He received his
Ph.D. in economics from Columbia University in 2016.
As of September 2016, he works as an economist at the
International Monetary Fund.
Eunhee Lee is from the Republic of Korea. She obtained
her Ph.D. in economics from Yale University in 2016. Since
autumn 2016, she has worked as Assistant Professor of
Economics at the University of Maryland.

Academic Selection Panel
Background on the WTO Essay Award for
Young Economists

Outreach

The WTO established the annual WTO Essay
Award for Young Economists in 2009. The award,
which carries a prize of CHF 5,000, aims to promote
high-quality economic research on the WTO and
WTO-related issues and to reinforce the relationship
between the WTO and the academic community.

The Academic Selection Panel comprised Dr Avinash Dixit
(Emeritus Professor of Economics, Princeton University),
Dr Robert Koopman (Director, Economic Research and
Statistics Division, WTO), Dr Robert Staiger (Professor
of Economics, Dartmouth College) and Dr Alberto Trejos
(Professor of Economics, INCAE Business School).
Dr Roberta Piermartini (Counsellor, Economic Research
and Statistics Division, WTO) coordinated the work of
the panel.

Economic research activities
www.wto.org/research
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

159

-----------------------Page 163 End-----------------------

Outreach

Statistics activities
In 2016, the WTO made further improvements to its statistical products. The
Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal (I-TIP) was updated to increase the range of
information available and the WTO’s flagship statistical publication – the “World
Trade Statistical Review” – was revamped. Improvements were also made to the
WTO’s two other annual statistical publications, “Trade Profiles” and “World Tariff
Profiles”. The WTO hosted three major statistical events during the year.

Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal
The WTO’s Integrated Trade Intelligence Portal (I-TIP) was
updated to increase the information available on non-tariff
measures (NTMs) and on services trade policies. I-TIP
provides a single entry point for WTO members’ notifications
on trade policy measures. These include trade contingency
measures (such as anti-dumping), technical measures (such
as sanitary and phytosanitary measures and technical barriers
to trade) quantitative restrictions, and NTMs relating to the
Agreement on Agriculture. The World Bank and the WTO are
working together to substantially increase information on WTO
members’ services trade policies. I-TIP regularly attracts up to
20,000 visits per month.

Statistical publications
In 2016, the WTO revamped its flagship statistical publication,
transforming “International Trade Statistics” from a statistical
compendium to a publication that combines analytical analysis
with statistical data.
The new publication – “World Trade Statistical Review” –
sets the statistical data within a global context to help explain
the latest trends in global trade. It continues to provide
comprehensive data on trade in goods and services but it
also looks into areas such as trade policy developments and

Background on statistics activities
The Economic Research and Statistics Division
supports WTO members and the WTO Secretariat with
data on economic and trade policy issues. The division
is the principal supplier of WTO trade statistics and
information on tariffs. It provides technical assistance
in trade policy courses and national workshops and
contributes to inter-organizational statistical activities.

20,000
I-TIP regularly attracts up to
20,000 visits per month.
the participation of developing economies in world trade.
In addition, the publication is now published earlier in the year,
bringing it closer to the reporting period.
The WTO has also revamped “Trade Profiles”, expanding
its coverage to include indicators on trade in goods and
services for 195 economies. Integrating the information
previously provided in “Services Profiles”, each country profile
is presented in a handy two-page format, allowing for easy
comparison between economies.
“World Tariff Profiles”, co-published with the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) and the
International Trade Centre (ITC), has also been expanded
to include information on non-tariff measures, such as
anti‑dumping actions, countervailing duties and safeguards.
In addition, the WTO released in 2016 new statistical profiles
on trade in value added and global value chains (GVCs) for
the 61 economies covered by the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development (OECD)-WTO trade in
value added database. These profiles, available on the WTO
website, include insights into the value-added content of
exports, the interconnection between economies within GVCs
and the role of the services industry in exports.

Statistical capacity-building
The WTO strengthened its technical assistance collaboration with
UNCTAD, building on the 2013 memorandum of understanding
aimed at sharing information on non-tariff measures and
encouraging the use of common standards and classifications.

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics

160

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 164 End-----------------------

DG Azevêdo at a
press conference to
announce the WTO’s
annual trade forecast
in April 2016.

The course benefited from the contributions of experts from
the central banks of France and Italy, ITC, OECD, Paris21
(a worldwide network of statisticians, policy makers, analysts,
and development practitioners) and UNCTAD. Prior to the
course, participants took a five‑week e‑learning course
on trade in services statistics developed in partnership
with UNCTAD.

Trade in Value-Added Data Day
The WTO organized a Trade in Value‑Added (TiVA) Data Day in
November for WTO members and observers. The objective was
to present underlying concepts for trade in value‑
added terms and to convey the key points arising from TiVA.
The meeting was followed by a workshop demonstrating
how to extract data from the TiVA database and responding to
technical questions. Measuring trade in terms of value added,
rather than customs values, gives a clearer picture of today’s
way of trading, which relies heavily on international supply
chains.

Expert meeting on
cross‑border e‑commerce
The WTO collaborated with the secretariats of UNCTAD,
the Universal Postal Union (UPU) and OECD to organize a
one‑day technical workshop on data sources that can help shed
light on the relationship between e‑commerce and
cross‑border trade. The workshop considered official statistics
as well as private data sources. The four organizations reached
out to both national statistical offices and international
organizations as well as to the private sector, hoping to build
constructive dialogue and future collaboration in the topic.

The aim of the workshop was to identify ways of developing
better statistical data in the area of e-commerce, taking into
account trade in goods and services. As e-commerce grows
in importance, better statistics will be needed for governments
and other stakeholders to formulate policies.

Improving services and
GVC‑related statistics
The WTO is working with the OECD and other organizations,
such as the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD),
to improve the estimation of bilateral trade flows and to tackle
the issue of so-called bilateral asymmetries. This refers to
the fact that what Country A reports as imports from Country
B often differs significantly from what Country B reports as
its exports to Country A. These asymmetries, especially for
services, are significant.

Task Force on International Trade Statistics
The most recent meeting of the Task Force on International
Trade Statistics took place in New York on 10-11 October 2016.
The meeting covered methodological and quality issues related
to trade statistics, e-commerce (measurement of cross‑border
transactions), bilateral asymmetries, the development of trade in
services data sets, and statistical capacity building.

Support for FAO/OECD AMIS database
The WTO contributed significantly to the Agricultural Market
Information System (AMIS), an inter-agency platform aimed
at enhancing food market transparency and policy responses
for food security. In collaboration with the OECD and the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(FAO), the WTO has developed a procedure to consolidate
agricultural policy data contained in various WTO databases
into a standard format that conforms with the AMIS database.

Statistics activities
www.wto.org/statistics
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

161

Outreach

The WTO organized its first thematic course on trade in
services statistics for least‑developed countries (LDCs) in
November. The course was organized in cooperation with the
Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation (see page 134)
and focused on best practices for collecting data in services
sectors of most interest to LDCs.

-----------------------Page 165 End-----------------------

Outreach

Cooperation with academic
institutions
The WTO Chairs Programme (WCP) launched a new book on reducing trade
costs and inclusive growth at the WCP Annual Conference in November.
The WCP’s Advisory Board reviewed the achievements of the programme,
which aims to support trade-related activities by universities in developing
countries, and discussed how to ensure its sustainability. In 2016, 12 activities
were implemented under the Academic Support Programme (ASP).

WTO Chairs Programme
The Advisory Board of the WTO’s Chairs Programme (WCP)
met at the WTO on 20 June 2016 to discuss the achievements
of the second four-year phase (Phase II) of the programme and
the challenges that lie ahead. It discussed how to ensure the
sustainability of the programme and how to further enhance
the work undertaken by the programme’s academic institutions.
Particular attention was given to the role that Board members
could play in support of the chairs’ activities.
Other topics discussed included how to increase the policy
relevance of the chairs’ work and whether common research
themes could be suggested for the chairs at national or
regional level. The Board is an external body composed of
experienced scholars whose role is to ensure the academic
quality of output generated by chair-holders.

Background on the WTO Chairs Programme
The WTO Chairs Programme was launched in
2010 to enhance knowledge and understanding of
the trading system among academics and policy
makers in developing countries. Chair-holders
are selected by a competitive process. Its main
objectives are to provide teaching support for the
development and delivery of courses on trade policy
and WTO-related matters and to foster further
research. Chairs are expected to cooperate with
other chairs through joint research, shared lecturing
arrangements and student/academic exchanges.
Universities awarded a chair are also expected to
organize public activities to disseminate research and
promote discussion regarding international trade.

19
The WTO Chairs Programme, initiated in
2010, has 19 participating institutions.

The Board began to discuss the longer‑term strategy of
the WCP. It encouraged the WTO Secretariat to pursue an
extension of the programme and to deepen relations with the
chairs involved in Phases I and II.
The WCP, initiated in 2010 and now with 19 participating
institutions, aims to enhance understanding of the multilateral
trading system and WTO issues among academics and
students in developing countries and to encourage dialogue
between policy-makers and academics. The programme,
whose phases run for four years, is implemented through
partnership agreements between the WTO and selected
institutions. It is jointly managed by the WTO’s Economic
Research and Statistics Division (ERSD) and the Institute for
Training and Technical Cooperation (ITTC).

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

162

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 166 End-----------------------

A new book on trade
costs and inclusive
growth was launched
at the annual
conference of the WTO
Chairs Programme
in November 2016.

The conference began with the launch of a WCP book, Trade
Costs and Inclusive Growth: Case Studies presented by WTO
Chair ‑holders . The book was based on presentations by the WTO
chairs at the Fifth Global Review of Aid for Trade, held in Geneva
in 2015, on the theme of “Reducing trade costs for inclusive
sustainable growth”. The book examines how the Aid for
Trade initiative (see pages 127) can assist with implementing the
Trade Facilitation Agreement (TFA) (see page 73), the importance
of mainstreaming trade into national development strategies and
the potential impact of the TFA in various regions. The book is the
second WCP publication, the first being Connecting to Global
Markets – Challenges and Opportunities: Case Studies
Presented by WTO Chair-holders , produced in 2014.
Chairs from Getulio Vargas Foundation, North‑West University
and Istanbul Bilgi University delivered presentations at the WTO
Public Forum in September (see page 140) on how to
mainstream trade into national development strategies and the
role of the WTO and policy makers in making trade an engine
for inclusive growth. The session was organized by the ITTC
and the ERSD and chaired by WTO Deputy Director‑General
Yonov Frederick Agah.
In May, a forum on trade and poverty took place at the WTO
organized by the WCP and the World Bank. “Connecting to
trade: policies and programmes for maximizing poverty
reduction impact” was part of a WTO/World Bank work
programme on trade and poverty and follows on from the release
of their joint publication on The Role of Trade in Ending Poverty

in June 2015. The forum was an opportunity for chairs from the
Université d’Abomey‑Calavi (Cotonou), University of Jordan
(Amman) and Tunis Business School to present their research
on how trade is helping alleviate poverty in their respective
countries. The WTO and the World Bank also issued a call for
proposals for papers on trade and poverty to be included in a
jointly edited publication to be released in 2017.
The Secretariat also organized regular video conferences with
Phase II chairs to follow more closely the progress made by
each institution and to better respond to any specific requests.
The interaction between chairs, the WCP Advisory Board and
the WTO Secretariat, through WCP events and WCP
publications, enhanced the engagement and visibility of the
WCP and contributed to strengthening this academic network.

Activities of WTO chairs
Chairs arranged a number of workshops and were active
in several conferences during 2016. Through these
activities, the chairs engaged with government agencies
and invited experts, including WTO staff. Initiatives of this type
have proven to be effective in maintaining a dialogue with
governments, in generating new ideas and creating
opportunities to network.
The WTO Secretariat participated in and supported activities
organized by chairs, such as academic conferences, seminars
and specialized courses. During the year, 15 activities were
delivered by the WTO Secretariat, with 386 participants being
trained during these events.

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

163

Outreach

The 2016 WCP Annual Conference, held on 14‑16 November,
also reviewed the work of the programme and discussed its
main achievements and challenges. Thirteen chairs selected
during the first phase (2010‑13) and six during the second
phase (2014‑17) are still active in the programme.

-----------------------Page 167 End-----------------------

Outreach

Academic Support Programme
In 2016, 12 activities were implemented under the Academic
Support Programme (ASP), which engages with academic
institutions from developing countries and least-developed
countries (LDCs) that are not part of the WCP. Activities over
the year included lecturing arrangements with universities
in which WTO staff taught in masters and bachelor
degree courses.

Universities participating in the WTO
Chairs Programme
Phase I Chairs
Phase II Chairs

Special efforts were made to support university competitions
on WTO law. The WTO provided staff to act as panellists
in regional inter-university competitions and funded the
participation of two African teams in the final round held at the
WTO headquarters in Geneva.
The ASP also handled donations of WTO publications
to universities and organized presentations to academic
audiences, together with the WTO Reference Centres
Programme (see page 136). During 2016, the WTO continued
encouraging universities to register lecturers as participants
in online courses offered by the WTO’s E-campus (see
page 135).

Mexico City, Mexico
Autonomous Institute of
Technology, Centre for
International Economic Law

St. Michael, Barbados
University of the West Indies,
Shridath Ramphal Centre
for International Trade Law,
Policy and Services

São Paulo, Brazil
Getulio Vargas Foundation,
São Paulo School of Economics

Santiago, Chile
University of Chile, Institute
of International Studies

Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Latin American Faculty of
Social Sciences (FLACSO)

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme

164

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 168 End-----------------------

Istanbul, Turkey

St. Petersburg, Russia

Shanghai, China

Istanbul Bilgi University

St. Petersburg State University,
Faculty of Economics, World
Economy Department

Shanghai Institute of Foreign
Trade (SIFT), School of WTO
Research and Education

El Mourouj, Tunisia
University of Tunis, Tunis
Business School

Amman, Jordan
University of Jordan, Faculty
of Business

Rabat, Morocco
Mohammed V-Souissi
University, Faculty of Legal,
Economic and Social Sciences

Muscat, Oman
Sultan Qaboos University

Nairobi, Kenya

Singapore

University of Nairobi, School
of Economics

National University of
Singapore, Faculty of Law

Dakar, Senegal
Cheikh Anta Diop University,
Faculty of Economics
and Management

Réduit, Mauritius
University Abomey-Calavi

University of Mauritius,
Department of Economics
and Statistics

Yogyakarta, Indonesia
Universitas Gadjah Mada,
Centre for World Trade Studies

Outreach

Cotonou, Benin

Potchefstroom,
South Africa
North-West University

Cooperation with academic institutions
www.wto.org/chairprogramme
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

165

-----------------------Page 169 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Roberto Azevêdo was reappointed by WTO members for a second term,
starting in September 2017, following a selection process in 2016.
At the end of 2016, the WTO had 628 staff representing 79 nationalities.
The WTO is close to achieving gender parity at the professional
level. In 2016 nearly 45 per cent of professional staff was female.
The WTO introduced a Young Professionals Programme to increase
the number of professionals from under-represented countries.

-----------------------Page 170 End-----------------------

WTO Secretariat

168

New recruits

168

WTO Secretariat organizational chart

169

Allocation of staff by division

170

WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender

171

WTO staff by professional/support category

171

Budget, finance and administration

174
175

Members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the WTO
Secretariat and the Appellate Body Secretariat 2017

176

Secretariat
and budget

Consolidated budget for 2017

Background on Secretariat
outreach and budget
The WTO Secretariat
maintains regular
has over
dialogue
600 regular
with non‑governmental
staff
who coordinate theorganizations,
activities of the
parliamentarians,
WTO.
Most of theother
WTO’s
international
annual budget
organizations,
consists
of contributions
the media and
by its
the
members.
general
public to enhance cooperation and
raise awareness of trade issues.

-----------------------Page 171 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

WTO Secretariat
The Secretariat is headed by Director-General Roberto Azevêdo, who took office for
four years on 1 September 2013. WTO members agreed to appoint Mr Azevêdo for a
second term, starting in September 2017, following a selection process at the end of
2016. The four Deputy Directors‑General began their terms on 1 October 2013. They
are Yonov Frederick Agah of Nigeria, Karl Brauner of Germany, David Shark of the
United States and Xiaozhun Yi of China (see Figure 1). The number of WTO staff fell
from 647 to 628 in 2016; a recruitment process is under way to fill the vacancies.

General Council Chair Harald Neple of Norway informed WTO
members on 3 November 2016 of the process to appoint the
WTO Director‑General after the current term of office comes
to an end on 31 August 2017. He said that Mr Azevêdo had
provided a letter expressing his wish to seek reappointment for
a further term, and that if members wished to nominate other
candidates, they would have from 1 to 31 December 2016 to
do so. On 4 January 2017, he told the WTO membership that
no further nominations for the position of Director‑General
had been received and that the incumbent, Roberto Azevêdo,
was the only candidate. At a meeting of the General Council in
February 2017, WTO members reappointed Mr Azevêdo for a
second term, starting in September 2017.
WTO Secretariat staff members come from 79 WTO member
countries (see Figure 5). The staff are composed mostly of
economists, lawyers and others with a specialization in
international trade policy. Staff also include other professions
required to carry out the daily operations of the organization
in areas such as information technology, statistics, finance,
human resources and language services. The working
languages of the WTO are English, French and Spanish.

New recruits
Stela Rubínová
Research Economist | Economic
Research and Statistics Division
Nationality: Czech
Joining date: 1 July 2016
I came to Geneva almost six years ago
to do a master’s degree in international
economics. It was the emphasis on policy
that attracted me to the programme,
and Geneva’s clustering of academic and
international institutions motivated me to
stay for my doctoral studies. The WTO
always interested me because it connects
economic research with practical policy
considerations. I did an internship here when
I started my PhD.
In the past four years, I have been working
on my doctorate, which focuses on aspects

Secretariat staff on the regular budget comprise professional
and support service categories. Professional staff account
for 61 per cent of the total and support service staff 39 per
cent. Women continue to outnumber men at the WTO, by 335
to 293. Of the professional staff, 44 per cent are female and
56 per cent male (see Figure 4).
The Human Resources Division has responded to the evolving
needs of the Secretariat, assisting in the reallocation of
resources to new or high-priority areas of work. In 2016,
the legal divisions continued to face a rising workload due to
the high number of disputes being filed by WTO members.
To address this, 29 posts have already been deployed to the
legal divisions and nearly all have been filled.
At the end of 2016, the number of staff working in the legal
divisions stood at 20 in the Appellate Body, 31 in the Legal
Affairs Division and 28 in the Rules Division, up from 17, 23 and
20, respectively, in 2014, when the period of reallocation began
(see Figure 2). The recruitment process is still under way to fill
the remaining vacant positions in the Appellate Body Secretariat
and the Rules Division. The staffing measures take into account
the limitations imposed by WTO members, including the overall

“The WTO always interested me because it connects economic research
with practical policy considerations 
”
of globalized production and how
they change the way we should think
about international trade. My academic
research led me to collaborate with the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development and the Belgian National
Bank. I also participated in policy-oriented
projects with the World Bank and the
International Labour Organization.
Becoming part of the WTO economic
research team allows me to capitalize
on and expand my previous experience.
I will participate in all its activities, ranging
from policy publications, such as the
World Trade Report, to collaboration
with academia and other international
organizations and economic analysis for
dispute settlement.
WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

168

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 172 End-----------------------

cap on the budget, and are being met by reallocating vacated
posts from elsewhere in the WTO Secretariat.
Other organizational initiatives in 2016 included the
establishment of the Office of Internal Oversight (OIO) and
the appointment of a Head of Office (see page 170). The OIO
will provide an independent and objective assessment of
management practices, expenses and budgetary control and
any allegations of misconduct. It takes over the functions
formerly exercised by the Office of Internal Audit.
New methods of informal resolution of workplace disputes
have been introduced, with the appointment of an external
mediator and an internal mediator whose role is to facilitate
dialogue between staff to help them arrive at an agreement.
The Young Professionals Programme (YPP) was introduced
in 2016 to increase the number of professionals in the WTO
Secretariat from developing and least-developed countries with
currently no representation. A vacancy notice was published

in 2016 and a large number of applications were received.
The selection process was held jointly by the Institute for
Technical Cooperation and Training (ITTC) (see page 134) and
the Human Resources Division. Divisions interested in hosting a
young professional were also invited to participate in the process.
Six young professionals from five unrepresented countries
were selected and will work in various divisions. The young
professionals joined the WTO in January 2017 for a year.
The Human Resources Division continued to perform its role
of enhancing the performance and effectiveness of WTO staff
and supporting a work environment that is both engaging and
conducive to developing the professional skills of staff.
The WTO Staff Council, elected by staff members,
promotes the interests of all staff within the Secretariat,
provides staff with a forum for issues of concern,
increases staff understanding of their rights and duties,
represents the interests of staff and presents staff views to
senior management.

Figure 1: WTO Secretariat organizational chart, as of 31 December 2016

Deputy
Director-General

Director-General
Roberto Azevêdo
Deputy
Director-General

Yonov Frederick
Agah

Office of
the DirectorGeneral
Tim Yeend

Karl Brauner

Deputy
Director-General

Deputy
Director-General

David Shark

Xiaozhun Yi

Legal Affairs
Trade Policies
Review

Gabrielle
Marceau
(Officer in
Charge)1

Willy Alfaro

Agriculture and
Commodities
Information
and External
Relations
Keith Rockwell

Development

Rules

Shishir
Priyadarshi

Johannes
Human

Appellate Body
Secretariat
Werner Zdouc

Office of Internal
Oversight

Market Access

Evan Rogerson3

Suja Rishikesh
Mavroidis

Trade and
Environment

Trade in
Services and
Investment

Benoit de
Schoutheete

Council
and Trade
Negotiations
Committee

Aik Hoe Lim

Hamid
Mamdouh

Victor Do Prado
Institute for
Training and
Technical
Cooperation

Administration
and General
Services

Bridget Chilala

Nthisana
Phillips

Accessions
Enhanced
Integrated
Framework
Secretariat

Maika
Oshikawa
(Officer in
Charge)

Intellectual
Property,
Government
Procurement and
Competition
Antony Taubman

Human
Resources
Christian
Dahoui

	 John Adank took office as director on 16 January 2017.
	 Juan Mesa retired on 31 December 2016.
3
	 Evan Rogerson retired on 31 March 2017. He was replaced by Edwini Kessie on 1 May 2017.
1
2

Information
Technology
Solutions
Division
Fabrice Boudou

Economic
Research and
Statistics
Robert
Koopman

Languages,
Documentation
and Information
Management
Juan Mesa2

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

169

Secretariat
and budget

Ratnakar
Adhikari

-----------------------Page 173 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Figure 2: Allocation of staff by division, as of 31 December 2016 (number of posts)*
Grades 1-10
Senior Management (DG, DDGs and their assistants)

Senior management and directors**

Total

4.0

Office of the Director-General

9.0
13.0

Accessions Division

14.0

7.8

8.8

Administration and General Services Division

66.4

Agriculture and Commodities Division

67.4

18.0

Council and Trade Negotiations Committee Division

19.0

13.0

Development Division

14.0

18.8

19.8

Economic Research and Statistics Division

37.6

Human Resources Division

39.6

22.4

Information and External Relations Division

23.4

27.8

Information Technology Solutions Division

28.8
40.8

Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation

41.8

33.1

Intellectual Property, Government Procurement and Competition Division

34.1

15.1

16.1

Languages, Documentation and Information Management Division

122.8

Legal Affairs Division

123.8

31.0

Market Access Division

32.0

16.8

Office of Internal Oversight

17.8

1.0

2.0

Rules Division

27.6

Staff Counsellor

27.6

1,0

Trade and Environment Division

1.0
11.8

Trade in Services and Investment Division

12.8

15.8

16.8

Trade Policies Review Division

50.9

Appellate Body Secretariat

51.9

22.0

0

20

23.0

40

60

80

100

120

618.5

140
27

645.5

* Includes posts not yet filled. Figures in decimals indicate staff members who work a percentage of the working week (e.g. 80 per cent).
** Two grade 10s as Officers in Charge (Accessions and Legal Affairs Divisions) counted in this instance as “Directors”.

New recruits
Benoit de Schoutheete
Head of Office | Office of Internal
Oversight
Nationality: Peruvian
Joining date: 5 September 2016
I have worked in internal oversight for more
than 15 years, first in the private sector,
then for non-governmental humanitarian
organizations and finally for United
Nations’ agencies, including the World
Food Programme (WFP), the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU) and
the High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR). Before arriving in Geneva, I had
worked in Europe, Latin America, Africa
and Asia-Pacific. Everywhere I have seen
how trade is at the heart of social and
human development.
I believe that international trade is a
key factor in the improvement of social
well‑being and the preservation of peace,

“I believe that international trade is a key factor in the improvement
of social well‑being and the preservation of peace 
”
and so I was very excited to join the WTO,
an organization with a worldwide
reputation, operating at the heart of
international trade.
In my view, the role of internal oversight
is to provide an unbiased view on
the organization’s risk management,
governance and internal control
processes. We are not here to judge
and we do not pretend to give lessons.
We are like the WTO’s family doctor,
responsible for helping managers and
staff to establish a clear diagnostic
of their professional risks, problems
or challenges, and to find adequate
solutions and mitigating controls.
Internal audits, evaluations and
investigations aim to enhance the
WTO’s effectiveness and efficiency.
WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

170

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 174 End-----------------------

Figure 3: WTO staff on regular budget by grade and gender, as of 31 December 2016
4

4
3

32

15

1

DDG

DG

13

36

2
21
16
22

55

56

335

Grades

293

58

Women

32

Men

20
53
47

68

33
37

DG
DDG
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
5
4
3
2

Figure 4: Percentage of WTO staff by professional/support category
100%

48

54

Women

Women
12.7%

77

Women

109

47

Women

Women

Professional – women

90%

21.3%

Professional – women

27.0%

Professional – women

80%
70%

32

28.4%

Men

55

74

Professional – men

Men

Men

33.8%

60%

89

43

Men

Men

Professional – men
33.6%

Professional – men

26.6%

Support – women

12.8%

Support – men

50%
40%

42.5%

Support – women

30%

30.5%

Support – women

20%
10%

16.3%

Support – men

14.4%

Support – men

01.01.1995

31.12.2006

Secretariat
and budget

0%
31.12.2016

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

171

-----------------------Page 175 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget
Figure 5: WTO staff on regular budget by gender and nationality, as of 31 December 2016

335 women, 293 men
Total 628

North America
Member

Women Men

Total

Canada
Mexico
United States

4
2
21

14
5
13

18
7
34

Grand total

27

32

59

South/Central America
Member
Argentina
Barbados
Bolivia, Plurinational
State of
Brazil
Chile
Colombia
Costa Rica
Cuba
Ecuador
Guatemala
Honduras
Jamaica
Paraguay
Peru
Trinidad and Tobago
Uruguay
Venezuela, Bolivarian
Republic of

79
Secretariat staff includes people
from 79 WTO members.

Grand total

New recruits
Tashi Kaul
Dispute Settlement Lawyer | Rules
Division
Nationality: Indian
Joining date: 1 October 2016
I have worked in international trade all my
career, as a lawyer and as an economist.
I have represented companies before
investigating authorities in anti-dumping and
safeguards cases and advised governments
on trade policy and compliance with
WTO rules.
Before joining the WTO, I worked in the
international trade practice of several law
firms and consulting firms worldwide.
I worked at White & Case LLP in Geneva,
Washington DC and Brussels before moving
to New Delhi to launch an international trade
practice at Ernst & Young LLP. In my last
position before joining the WTO, I was a

Women Men

Total

3
0

4
1

7
1

0

1

1

3
2
3
1
1
1
2
2
1
1
4
1
0

8
0
6
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
0
4

11
2
9
2
1
1
2
2
1
1
8
1
4

1

4

5

26

33

59

“Having worked for several years on trade remedies cases in domestic
jurisdictions, I was interested in working on such cases at the
international level

”

partner on international trade practice in
the law firm Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan
in New Delhi.
Having worked for several years on trade
remedies cases in domestic jurisdictions,
I was interested in working on such cases
at the international level. The WTO was
a natural choice – and I am happy to
be here.
At the Rules Division, I advise panels on
disputes that members bring to WTO
dispute settlement. The work enthrals me
and I see it as an exciting progression
from the work I have done on trade
remedies in the past.

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat

172

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 176 End-----------------------

Europe
Member
Austria
Belgium
Bulgaria
Croatia
Czech
Republic
Denmark
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Hungary
Ireland

Women Men
2
2
1
1

3
2
2
0

Total
5
4
3
1

1

0

1

2
1
2
94
7
3
0
10

1
0
1
69
14
1
2
1

3
1
3
163
21
4
2
11

Member
Italy
Netherlands
Norway
Poland
Portugal
Romania
Russian
Federation
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Ukraine
United
Kingdom
Grand total

Women Men
10
1
0
2
1
2

12
4
2
1
3
0

Total
22
5
2
3
4
2

2

0

2

28
1
25
1

11
2
21
0

39
3
46
1

39

11

50

238

163

401

Asia
Member
Bangladesh
China
India
Japan
Jordan
Korea, Republic of
Malaysia
Nepal
Pakistan
Philippines
Turkey
Grand total

Women Men

Total

0
7
3
2
1
4
0
0
0
6
2

1
7
10
2
0
0
2
1
3
8
2

1
14
13
4
1
4
2
1
3
14
4

25

36

61

Africa

Benin
Botswana
Chad
Democratic
Republic of
the Congo
Egypt
Ghana
Guinea
Kenya
Malawi
Mauritius
Morocco

Women Men

Total

0
1
0

2
0
1

2
1
1

1

1

2

3
0
0
1
0
0
1

2
1
1
0
1
2
3

5
1
1
1
1
2
4

Member

Women Men

Total

Nigeria
Rwanda
Senegal
South Africa
Tanzania
The Gambia
Tunisia
Uganda
Zambia

0
0
0
0
1
1
2
2
1

2
1
1
2
0
0
2
0
0

2
1
1
2
1
1
4
2
1

Zimbabwe

2

0

2

Grand total

16

22

38

Oceania
Member

Women Men

Total

Australia
New Zealand

3
0

6
1

9
1

Grand total

3

7

10

Secretariat
and budget

Member

WTO Secretariat
www.wto.org/secretariat
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

173

-----------------------Page 177 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Budget, finance and
administration
The Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration reviewed reports on the financial
and budgetary situation of the WTO, presented the financial performance report 2015,
the mid-term review 2016-2017 and the first report of the Office of Internal Oversight. It
sent proposed revisions to the WTO pension plan to the General Council for approval.

The WTO Secretariat presented the 2015 WTO financial
performance report. The Committee proposed that the General
Council approve the transfers between budgetary sections
outlined there and the General Council approved them.
The external auditors presented their report for 2015 to the
Committee. Notably, they lifted the reservations they had
made on the prior year’s financial statements and gave their
unqualified approval for the 2015 financial statements. On the
basis of a recommendation from the Committee, the General
Council approved the external auditors’ report. The Committee
also reviewed proposed revisions to the WTO Financial Rules
and recommended their approval by the General Council.
The WTO Secretariat regularly updates WTO members
on aspects of the organizational review process launched
by Director-General Roberto Azevêdo in December 2013.
In 2016, these aspects included the bonus working group,
various groups assessing issues related to staff performance,
the promotion policy and the mobility initiative.
The Committee examined the Mid-Term Review for the Biennium
2016-2017 of the WTO and of the International Trade Centre
(ITC). Neither the WTO nor the ITC proposed a revision to their
2017 budget. The Committee proposed that the General Council
approve the WTO members’ scale of contributions for 2017.
The Committee made a recommendation to the General Council
to approve pro-rata contributions for the accession of the Republic
of Liberia and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to the WTO in
July 2016. The General Council approved the recommendation.

Background on budget, finance
and administration
The Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration
monitors the WTO’s budgetary and financial matters.
It considers issues concerning human resources
management, hears progress reports on the WTO
pension plan and deals with financial and administrative
matters concerning the WTO Secretariat.
The Committee reports to the General Council.

During the year, the Committee invited the General Council
to urge members and observers in arrears and under
administrative measures to eradicate their arrears.
The Office of Internal Oversight (OIO) presented its report
on internal audit activities. The OIO, which was established in
November 2015, is responsible for conducting internal audits,
investigations and any other assessment deemed necessary to
strengthen accountability, internal controls, compliance, value
for money and governance in the WTO Secretariat.
The Committee was informed about the new policies put
in place by the Information Technology Solutions Division
regarding IT governance, information security and security
controls. These have become very important global issues
and the Secretariat is giving them significant attention.
An IT Security Steering Committee, composed of senior
management, was established and met regularly.
The Management Board of the WTO Pension Plan shared with
the Committee proposed revised rules for the WTO Pension
Plan. The Committee took note of the proposed revisions and
sent them to the General Council for approval.
In November, the WTO Secretariat delivered a draft strategy to
the Monitoring Group on ASHI (after service health insurance)
Strategy Development. The Group is reviewing work on
developing a long‑term strategy to ensure the sustainability of
the WTO’s medical insurance plan and related ASHI benefits.
Following the Group’s request for clarifications, revised texts
were presented to both the Monitoring Group and the CBFA.
Discussion of this topic will continue in 2017.
The working group regarding the Audit Committee assessed
whether there is a need for the WTO to have an Audit
Committee. In its report to the Committee, the working group
indicated that it had not been able to reach a consensus.
Several members of the Committee expressed the hope that
the topic could be revisited in the future.
The Committee approved a CHF 70,000 donation from the
Loterie Romande to finance the restoration and installation of
the ceiling in meeting rooms V and Y.

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

174

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 178 End-----------------------

WTO budget 2017
The WTO derives its income from annual contributions from
its 164 members (see Tables 1, 2 and 3) and miscellaneous
income. These contributions are based on a formula that

takes into account each member’s share of international trade.
Miscellaneous income mainly consists of contributions from
observer countries, income from the sale of publications and
rental of meeting rooms.

The WTO’s budget for 2017 is:
WTO Secretariat:

Appellate Body and its secretariat:

The total WTO budget is

CHF 189,624,000

CHF 7,579,900

CHF 197,203,900

Table 1: Consolidated budget for 2017
Section

Budget 2017 (in thousand CHF)

Staff expenditure (including staff remuneration, pension and postemployment benefits, health and invalidity insurance,
family and international benefits)

131,415

Temporary assistance (including short-term staff, consultants, panellists and Appellate Body member fees)

17,289

General services (including telecommunications and post, contractual services and maintenance, energy and supplies,
documentation and publication)

15,330

Travel and hospitality

7,351

Implementing partners (includes any activity or event partly/jointly/fully funded by the WTO but executed by a third-party
organization)

213

Capital expenditure (including procurement of fixed assets and rental and leasing of equipment)

2,350

Financial expenditure (including bank and interest charges and building loan reimbursement)

1,280

Contributions to International Trade Centre and special reserves (including Appellate Body operating fund and Ministerial
Conference operating fund)

197,204

Secretariat
and budget

Grand total

21,975

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

175

-----------------------Page 179 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Table 3: WTO members’ contributions to the consolidated budget of the WTO Secretariat and the
Appellate Body Secretariat 2017
Member

2017 Contribution
CHF

2017
Contribution %

2017 Contribution
CHF

Member

2017
Contribution %

48,875

0.025%

Dominican Republic

154,445

0.079%

Albania

44,965

0.023%

Ecuador

240,465

0.123%

Angola

496,570

0.254%

Egypt

510,255

0.261%

29,325

0.015%

El Salvador

0.399%

Estonia

0.018%

European Union

Afghanistan

Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia

780,045
35,190

1

74,290

0.038%

179,860

0.092%

0

0.000%

29,325

0.015%

Australia

2,754,595

1.409%

Fiji

Austria

1,978,460

1.012%

Finland

944,265

0.483%

7,470,055

3.821%

Bahrain, Kingdom of

168,130

0.086%

France

Bangladesh

297,160

0.152%

Gabon

68,425

0.035%

29,325

0.015%

The Gambia

29,325

0.015%

3,800,520

1.944%

Georgia

64,515

0.033%

Belize

29,325

0.015%

Germany

14,294,960

7.312%

Benin

29,325

0.015%

Ghana

152,490

0.078%

Bolivia, Plurinational State of

93,840

0.048%

Greece

672,520

0.344%

Botswana

72,335

0.037%

Grenada

29,325

0.015%

2,586,465

1.323%

Guatemala

140,760

0.072%

80,155

0.041%

Guinea

29,325

0.015%

316,710

0.162%

Guinea-Bissau

29,325

0.015%

29,325

0.015%

29,325

0.015%

Barbados
Belgium

Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso

31,280

0.016%

Guyana

Burundi

29,325

0.015%

Haiti

Cabo Verde

29,325

0.015%

Honduras

76,245

0.039%

Cambodia

86,020

0.044%

Hong Kong, China

5,157,290

2.638%

64,515

0.033%

Hungary

1,030,285

0.527%

5,022,395

2.569%

Iceland

60,605

0.031%

Cameroon
Canada
Central African Republic

29,325

0.015%

India

4,463,265

2.283%

Chad

44,965

0.023%

Indonesia

1,800,555

0.921%

Chile

787,865

0.403%

Ireland

1,955,000

1.000%

18,756,270

9.594%

Israel

832,830

0.426%

576,725

0.295%

Italy

5,436,855

2.781%

91,885

0.047%

Jamaica

52,785

0.027%

142,715

0.073%

Japan

8,345,895

4.269%

China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire

105,570

0.054%

Jordan

164,220

0.084%

Croatia

224,825

0.115%

Kazakhstan

639,285

0.327%

Cuba

146,625

0.075%

Kenya

121,210

0.062%

Cyprus

119,255

0.061%

Korea, Republic of

5,947,110

3.042%

1,397,825

0.715%

Kuwait, the State of

Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the
Congo

694,025

0.355%

Kyrgyz Republic

39,100

0.020%

29,325

0.015%

156,400

0.080%

29,325

0.015%

103,615

0.053%

1,515,125

0.775%

Lao People’s Democratic
Republic

Djibouti

29,325

0.015%

Latvia

Dominica

29,325

0.015%

Lesotho

Denmark

	 The European Union is not subject to contributions. However, its 28 members are assessed individually. The total share of members of the European
Union represents 34.04% of the total assessed contributions for 2017.

1

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget

176

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 180 End-----------------------

2017 Contribution
CHF

Liberia

29,325

Liechtenstein

2017
Contribution %

Saint Lucia

29,325

0.015%

Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines

29,325

0.015%

62,560

0.032%

310,845

0.159%

Luxembourg

848,470

0.434%

Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia

303,025

0.155%

29,325

0.015%

29,325

0.015%

2,084,030

1.066%

Maldives

29,325

0.015%

Mali

29,325

0.015%

Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico

125,120

0.064%

29,325

0.015%

58,650

0.030%

3,503,360

1.792%

37,145

0.019%

Moldova, Republic of
Mongolia

54,740

0.028%

Montenegro

29,325

0.015%

Morocco
Mozambique

351,900

0.180%

62,560

0.032%

Myanmar

91,885

0.047%

Namibia

56,695

0.029%

Nepal
Netherlands

2017
Contribution %

0.015%

Lithuania

Macao, China

2017 Contribution
CHF

Member

41,055

0.021%

5,821,990

2.978%

Samoa

29,325

0.015%

2,490,670

1.274%

Senegal

43,010

0.022%

Seychelles

29,325

0.015%

Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of

Sierra Leone

29,325

0.015%

4,723,280

2.416%

Slovak Republic

764,405

0.391%

Slovenia

308,890

0.158%

Singapore

Solomon Islands

29,325

0.015%

South Africa

1,051,790

0.538%

Spain

3,800,520

1.944%

Sri Lanka

158,355

0.081%

Suriname

29,325

0.015%

Swaziland

29,325

0.015%

2,142,680

1.096%

Switzerland

3,554,190

1.818%

Chinese Taipei

3,000,925

1.535%

Sweden

Tajikistan

29,325

0.015%

Tanzania

91,885

0.047%

Thailand

2,367,505

1.211%

52,785

0.027%

29,325

0.015%

451,605

0.231%

The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia

Nicaragua

48,875

0.025%

Togo

Niger

29,325

0.015%

Tonga

Nigeria

785,910

0.402%

Trinidad and Tobago

Norway

1,530,765

0.783%

Oman

391,000

0.200%

Pakistan

340,170

0.174%

Panama

254,150

0.130%

64,515

0.033%

United Arab Emirates

2,774,145

1.419%

Paraguay

113,390

0.058%

United Kingdom

7,366,440

3.768%

Peru

416,415

0.213%

United States of America

21,968,335

11.237%

Philippines

660,790

0.338%

Uruguay

119,255

0.061%

2,107,490

1.078%

Vanuatu

29,325

0.015%

Portugal

793,730

0.406%

Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of

Qatar

791,775

0.405%

Viet Nam

Romania

666,655

0.341%

4,418,300

2.260%

Rwanda

29,325

0.015%

Zimbabwe

Saint Kitts and Nevis

29,325

0.015%

TOTAL

New Zealand

Papua New Guinea

Poland

Russian Federation

29,325

0.015%

115,345

0.059%

Tunisia

217,005

0.111%

Turkey

1,998,010

1.022%

Uganda

54,740

0.028%

Ukraine

746,810

0.382%

705,755

0.361%

1,114,350

0.570%

Yemen

99,705

0.051%

Zambia

86,020

0.044%

48,875

0.025%

195,500,000

100.000%

Budget, finance and administration
www.wto.org/budget
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

177

Secretariat
and budget

Member

-----------------------Page 181 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

How the WTO is structured
The WTO’s top-level decision-making body is the Ministerial
Conference, which usually meets every two years.

Numerous specialized committees, working groups and
working parties deal with the individual agreements and other
areas such as the environment, development, membership
applications and regional trade agreements.

Below this is the General Council (normally ambassadors
and heads of delegation in Geneva, but sometimes officials
sent from members’ capitals), which meets several times a
year in the Geneva headquarters. The General Council also
meets as the Trade Policy Review Body and the Dispute
Settlement Body.

All WTO members may participate in all councils and
committees, with the exceptions of the Appellate Body,
Dispute Settlement panels and plurilateral committees.

At the next level, the Goods Council, Services Council
and Intellectual Property (TRIPS) Council report to the
General Council.

Committees on:
Trade and Environment
Trade and Development
Sub-Committee on Least-Developed Countries
Regional Trade Agreements
Balance of Payments Restrictions
Budget, Finance and Administration

Ministerial
Conference

Working parties on:
Accession

General Council
meeting as

General Council
meeting as

Dispute
Settlement Body

Trade Policy
Review Body

Working groups on:
Trade, debt and finance
Trade and technology transfer
Inactive

General
Council

Appellate Body

Relationship between Trade and Investment
Interaction between Trade and
Competition Policy
Transparency in Government
Procurement

Plurilaterals:

Plurilateral:
Information
Technology
Agreement
Committee

Dispute settlement
panels

Council for
Trade in
Goods

Council for
Trade-Related
Aspects of
Intellectual
Property Rights

Council for
Trade in
Services

Trade in Civil
Aircraft Committee
Government
Procurement
Committee

Trade
Negotiations
Committee

Committees on:

Committees on:

Doha Development Agenda:

Market Access
Agriculture
Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures
Technical Barriers to Trade
Subsidies and
Countervailing Measures
Anti-Dumping Practices
Customs Valuation
Rules of Origin
Import Licensing
Trade-Related Investment Measures
Safeguards
Trade Facilitation

Trade in Financial Services
Specific Commitments

Trade Negotiations
Committee and its bodies

Working parties on:

Special sessions of:

Domestic Regulation
General Agreement on
Trade in Services Rules

Services Council / TRIPS Council /
Dispute Settlement Body / Agriculture
Committee and Cotton Sub-Committee /
Trade and Development Committee /
Trade and Environment Committee

Working party on:

Negotiating groups on:
Market Access
Rules

State Trading Enterprises

WTO website
www.wto.org

178

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 182 End-----------------------

WTO Chairpersons (as of 31 December 2016)
Chairpersons of the General Council and bodies reporting to it
General Council

Ambassador Harald Neple (Norway)

Dispute Settlement Body

Ambassador Xavier Carim (South Africa)

Trade Policy Review Body

Ms Irene B. K. Young (Hong Kong, China)

Council for Trade in Goods

Ambassador Hamish McCormick (Australia)

Council for Trade in Services

Ambassador Gustavo Vanerio (Uruguay)

Council for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights

Mr Modest Jonathan Mero (Tanzania)

Committee on Trade and Environment

Ambassador Héctor Casanueva (Chile)

Committee on Trade and Development

Ambassador Christopher Onyanga Aparr (Uganda)

Committee on Balance‑of-Payments Restrictions

Ambassador Shameem Ahsan (Bangladesh)

Committee on Regional Trade Agreements

Ambassador Daniel Blockert (Sweden)

Committee on Budget, Finance and Administration

Ambassador Inga Ernstsone (Latvia)

Working Group on Trade and Transfer of Technology

Ambassador Luis Enrique Chávez Basagoitia (Peru)

Working Group on Trade, Debt and Finance

Ambassador Atanas Atanassaov Paparizov (Bulgaria)

Trade Negotiations Committee

Director-General Roberto Azevêdo (WTO)

Preparatory Committee on Trade Facilitation

Ambassador Mariam Md. Salleh (Malaysia)

Chairpersons of bodies established under the Trade Negotiations Committee
Negotiating Group on Market Access

Ambassador Didier Chambovey (Switzerland)

Negotiating Group on Rules

Ambassador Wayne McCook (Jamaica)

Special Session of the Council for Trade in Services

Ambassador Marcelo Cima (Argentina)

Special Session of the Council for TRIPS

Ambassador Dacio Castillo (Honduras)

Special Session of the Dispute Settlement Body

Ambassador Stephen Karau (Kenya)

Special Session of the Committee on Agriculture

Ambassador Vangelis Vitalis (New Zealand)

Sub-Committee on Cotton

Ambassador Vangelis Vitalis (New Zealand)

Special Session of the Committee on Trade and Environment

Ambassador Syed Tauqir Shah (Pakistan)

Special Session of the Committee on Trade and Development

Ambassador Yee Woan Tan (Singapore)

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Goods
Committee on Agriculture

Mr. Garth Ehrhardt (Canada)

Committee on Anti-Dumping Practices

Mr. Peira Shannon (Australia)

Committee on Customs Valuation

Dr Yasser Korani (Egypt)

Committee on Import Licensing

Mr Tapio Pyysalo (Finland)

Committee on Market Access

Ms. Hanna Olsen Bodsberg (Norway)

Committee on Rules of Origin

Mr. Chih-Tung Chang (Chinese Taipei)

Committee on Safeguards

Mr. Yusong Chen (China)

Committee on Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures

Ms Marcela Otero (Chile)

Committee on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures

Mr Jin-dong Kim (Republic of Korea)

Committee on Technical Barriers to Trade

Ms Esther Peh (Singapore)

Committee on Trade-Related Investment Measures

Ms Marine Willemetz (Switzerland)

Working Party on State Trading Enterprises

Ms Yeili Danelly Rangel Peñaranda (Colombia)

Committee of Participants on the Expansion of Trade in Information Technology Products

Ms Zsofia Tvarusko (Hungary)

Chairpersons of subsidiary bodies of the Council for Trade in Services
Committee on Trade in Financial Services

Ms. Junko Ueno (Japan)

Working Party on Domestic Regulation

Ms Katarzyna Stecz (Poland)

Committee on Specific Commitments

Mr Han Changtian (China)

Working Party on GATS Rules

Mr. Gustavo Héctor Mendez (Argentina)

Chairpersons of Committees of Plurilateral Agreements
Committee on Trade in Civil Aircraft

Mr Hsiao-Yin Wu (Chinese Taipei)

Committee on Government Procurement

Mr John Newham (Ireland)

WTO website
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

179

-----------------------Page 183 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Membership of the WTO: 164 members (as of 31 December 2016)
Member1

Year of accession

Afghanistan
Albania
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Bahrain, Kingdom of
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bolivia, Plurinational State of
Botswana
Brazil
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cabo Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Estonia
European Union
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
The Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Grenada
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Ireland

2016
2000
1996
1995
1995
2003
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
2008
1995
1996
1995
2001
1995
1997
1995
1995
2000
1995
1995
1995
1997
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1999
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1996
2000
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995

Member1

Year of accession

Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Korea, Republic of
Kuwait, the State of
Kyrgyz Republic
Latvia
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Lesotho
Liberia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macao, China
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mexico
Moldova, Republic of
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Nepal
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
Saudi Arabia, Kingdom of
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovak Republic
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanka

1995
1995
1995
1995
2000
2015
1995
1995
1995
1998
1999
2013
1995
2016
1995
2001
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
2001
1997
2012
1995
1995
1995
1995
2004
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
2000
1995
1997
1996
1995
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
2012
1996
1996
1995
1995
2012
2005
1995
2015
1995
1995
1995
1995
1996
1995
1995
1995

Member1

Year of accession

Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Chinese Taipei
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United States of America
Uruguay
Vanuatu
Venezuela, Bolivarian Republic of
Viet Nam
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

1995
1995
1995
1995
2002
2013
1995
1995
2003
1995
2007
1995
1995
1995
1995
2008
1996
1995
1995
1995
2012
1995
2007
2014
1995
1995

States/separate customs territories
seeking to join the WTO
(as of 31 December 2016)
Algeria
Andorra
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Belarus
Bhutan
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Comoros
Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia
Iran
Iraq
Lebanese Republic
Libya
São Tomé and Principe
Serbia
Somalia
Sudan
Syrian Arab Republic
Timor Leste
Uzbekistan
Countries that officially became
WTO members in 2016
Member
Liberia
Afghanistan

Date of membership
14 July 2016
29 July 2016

	 Members are mostly states but can also be customs territories with full autonomy over their external commercial relations.

1

WTO website
www.wto.org

180

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 184 End-----------------------

Abbreviations
ADP	
ASEAN	
CTD	
DDA	
DSB	
DSU	
EIF	
EU	
FAO	
FDI	
GATS	
GATT	
GDP	
GIs	
GPA	
HS	
ICC	
ILO	
IPU	
ISO	
ITA	
ITC	
ITTC	
ITU	
LDCs	
MEAs	

Anti-Dumping Practices
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
Committee on Trade and Development
Doha Development Agenda
Dispute Settlement Body
Dispute Settlement Understanding
Enhanced Integrated Framework
European Union
Food and Agriculture Organization
Foreign direct investment
General Agreement on Trade in Services
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Gross domestic product
Geographical indications
Government Procurement Agreement
Harmonized System
International Chamber of Commerce
International Labour Organization
Inter-Parliamentary Union
International Organization for Standardization
Information Technology Agreement
International Trade Centre
Institute for Training and Technical Cooperation
International Telecommunication Union
Least-developed countries
Multilateral environmental agreements

MFN	
NAMA	
NFIDCs	
NGO	
NTMs	
OECD	
PLS	
PSI	
RTAs	
SCM	
SG	
SMEs	
SPS	
STDF	
SVE	
TBT	
TNC	
TPR	
TPRM	
TRIMs	
TRIPS	
UNCTAD	
WIPO	

Most-favoured nation
Non-agricultural market access
Net food-importing developing countries
Non-governmental organization
Non-tariff measures
Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development
Progressive learning strategy
Agreement on Preshipment Inspection
Regional trade agreements
Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
Agreement on Safeguards
Small and medium-sized enterprises
Sanitary and phytosanitary measures
Standards and Trade Development Facility
Small, vulnerable economy
Technical barriers to trade
Trade Negotiations Committee
Trade Policy Review
Trade Policy Review Mechanism
Trade-related investment measures
Trade-related aspects of intellectual
property rights
United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development
World Intellectual Property Organization

0 is zero or became zero due to rounding.
Billion means one thousand million.
Minor discrepancies between constituent figures and totals are due to rounding.
Unless otherwise indicated, (i) all value figures are expressed in US dollars; (ii) trade figures include the intra-trade of free trade
areas, customs unions, regional and other country groupings.
Note
This report covers the WTO’s activities in 2016 and early 2017. The word “country” is frequently used to describe WTO members
whereas a few members are officially “customs territories”, and not necessarily countries in the usual sense of the word.

Further information
Further information about the organization
and its activities can be found on the WTO
website: www.wto.org
General information about the WTO is available in the
following publications, which may be downloaded free of
charge from the website:
WTO in Brief
WTO in Brief provides a starting point for essential information
about the WTO. Concise and practical, this short brochure is
an ideal introduction to the WTO.

Online bookshop
Printed publications can be purchased through the WTO’s
online bookshop: http://onlinebookshop.wto.org.
Many publications may be downloaded free of charge from the
WTO website: www.wto.org.
You can register to receive free alerts when new titles
become available.

10 things the WTO can do
This publication highlights some of the benefits of the trading
system, but it does not claim that everything is perfect –
otherwise there would be no need for further negotiations and
for the system to evolve and reform continually. The publication
replaces 10 Benefits of the WTO Trading System and
10 Common Misunderstandings about the WTO.

WTO website
www.wto.org
Annual Report 2017 World Trade Organization

181

-----------------------Page 185 End-----------------------

Secretariat and budget

Download the app
The WTO Annual Report 2017 will be made available as
an app. It can be downloaded from the App Store and
Google Play for viewing on your iPad, iPhone, Android tablet
or smartphone.

A year in review
A large number of WTO members ratified the Trade Facilitation
Agreement in 2016, paving the way for its entry into force
in early 2017. Many members also accepted an amendment
to the WTO’s intellectual property agreement, which finally
came into effect in the first quarter of 2017. The amendment
secures for developing countries a legal pathway to access
affordable medicines. WTO members engaged constructively
across several areas of trade negotiations from mid-2016 as
they began to work towards the WTO’s forthcoming ministerial
conference, to be held in Argentina in December 2017.

Membership
Liberia and Afghanistan joined the WTO in July 2016,
bringing the WTO’s total membership to 164.
In December 2016, WTO members agreed to begin WTO
membership negotiations for Somalia and Timor-Leste.
Twenty-one governments are currently negotiating WTO membership.

A year in review

Trade negotiations
A year in review

WTO members focused on implementing decisions taken at
the Nairobi and Bali ministerial conferences and on looking
towards potential outcomes for the 11th Ministerial Conference
(MC11) to be held in Buenos Aires in December 2017.

Implementation and
monitoring

PANTONE COLOURS - COLOUR LOGO (BLUE BACKDROUND)

WTO LOGO

In the second half of the year, trade negotiations intensified,
with several proposals being submitted by WTO members,
including on agriculture, services and fisheries subsidies.
In his role as Chair of the Trade Negotiations Committee,
Director‑General Roberto Azevêdo stressed the need to
deepen discussions significantly in the months ahead.

C 0%
M 0%
Y 0%
K 0%

C 100%
M 90%
Y 9%
K 40%

R 30
G 25
B 98

C 91%
M 72%
Y 6%
K 18%

R 59
G 68
B 139

C 74%
M 49%
Y 7%
K 6%

R 102
G 119
B 176

C 57%
M 32%
Y 10%
K 6%

DG Azevêdo stressed that WTO members should take
whatever steps are possible – underlining that on any issue this
would not be the end of the road but a first step. Pragmatism
remained a vital ingredient. Balancing elements was important
so that they took into account members’ different interests

WTO members concentrated on
implementing decisions taken at the Nairobi
and Bali ministerial conferences.

and positions and responded to the needs of developed,
developing and least‑developed countries.
In December, the chairs of the negotiating group provided
updates on their activities and considered the way forward
in 2017, including areas for potential outcomes at MC11.
The chairs highlighted constructive engagement across several
issues as a positive development that had not been witnessed
for some time but underlined that in some areas further
engagement was needed.
DG Azevêdo reported that in his consultations in Geneva and
in his visits to capitals, there was a shared desire to deliver
a successful Ministerial Conference in Buenos Aires and a
common belief in the importance of sustaining ministerial
engagement in the lead‑up to the conference. He highlighted
that outcomes are more likely through incremental progress
rather than major leaps and that WTO members agree on
the importance of advancing the development aspects of
any issues.
DG Azevêdo stressed that work needs to intensify in 2017 as
divergent views remain in many areas. He proposed to facilitate
exchanges among WTO members submitting proposals and
delegations that have shown interest in specific issues so that
they can share views and see how to advance these issues.

C 0%
M 0%
Y 0%
K 0%

R 254
G 254
B 254

The TFA aims to streamline, simplify and standardise customs
procedures. By easing the flow of goods across borders, it will
help to cut trade costs around the world. Full implementation
of the TFA is forecast to slash WTO members’ trade costs
by an average of 14.3 per cent. The Agreement is expected
to reduce the time needed to import goods by over a day and
a half and to export goods by almost two days, representing
a reduction of 47 per cent and 91 per cent respectively over
the current average. By 2030, the Agreement could add 2.7
percentage points per year to world trade growth and more
than half a percentage point per year to world GDP growth.
The Agreement is unique in that it allows developing countries
to set their own timetable for implementation depending
on their capacity to do so. A Trade Facilitation Agreement
Facility was created to help ensure these countries receive the
assistance needed to reap the full benefits of the TFA.

14.3%

www.wto.org/

10

17

Another major milestone was the entry into force of the
amendment to the WTO’s intellectual property (TRIPS)
agreement, securing for developing countries a legal pathway
to access affordable medicines under WTO rules. It is the first
time since the launch of the WTO in 1995 that a WTO accord
has been amended.

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

The TFA is forecast to
slash WTO members’
trade costs by an
average of 14.3 per
cent.

WTO members brought 17 new
disputes to the WTO in 2016.

Some 520 trade disputes have been brought by WTO
members since the organization was established in 1995.
Two‑thirds of the WTO membership has participated in the
system in one way or another. The largest number of disputes

520

has been brought by the United States (112) followed by the
European Union (97), Canada (35) and Brazil (30). The main
respondent in disputes brought to the WTO has been the
United States (129) followed by the European Union (83),
China (38) and India (24).
The disputes address a wide range of trade concerns and
often touch upon global issues, such as human health,
renewable energy, conservation of natural resources and,
more recently, money laundering and tax evasion. A total of
11 panel reports were circulated in 2016.
During 2016, the dispute settlement system began to feel
the benefit of measures introduced to address the challenge
of the mounting number of disputes being brought by WTO

Interest in the WTO increased significantly in 2016. This led to the
creation of the Trade Dialogues initiative, which was designed to
facilitate increased engagement from a range of stakeholders. A series
of meetings was held during the year, bringing in representatives
of the private sector, NGOs, academia, labour and consumers.

As part of the Trade Dialogues initiative, the WTO facilitated a
meeting of business leaders at the request of the International
Chamber of Commerce and the B20, the business arm of the G20.
The event brought together over 60 business leaders to
discuss the challenges and opportunities they face in
conducting trade operations and how the WTO could address
the current needs of the business community. The attendees
were from small and large enterprises, from developed and
developing countries, and from a variety of sectors.
In addition to the current negotiating agenda, the business
leaders urged the WTO to look at a wide range of issues,
such as electronic commerce, rules to better facilitate
services and investment flows, support for micro, small and
medium‑sized enterprises, action to provide trade finance,
and many others.
The WTO’s major outreach event of the year was the
Public Forum, held in September, which attracted over
1,100 participants to the 100+ sessions held during the three
days of the event. The Forum provides a unique platform
for businesspeople, academics and non‑governmental
organisations to come together to discuss some of the
major trade and development issues of the day, with all of
the sessions being organized by the participants. In 2016,
the theme of the event was “inclusive trade”.
Participants underlined the need to promote greater
participation in trade by women and small businesses and the
importance of ensuring that effective policies are put into place
to help the poor and those who may suffer job losses resulting
from trade. In his opening remarks, DG Azevêdo highlighted
the need to ensure that the right policies are adopted so that
the benefits of trade are shared more widely.

www.wto.org/

12

Outreach

520 trade disputes have been
brought to the WTO since the
organization was established in
1995.

The Dispute Settlement Body
appointed two new Appellate
Body members: Hong Zhao
of China (right) and Hyun
Chong Kim of Korea (centre).

The implementation of the Trade Facilitation
Agreement (TFA) in February 2017 is expected to
ease the flow of goods across borders.

A year in review

The WTO’s dispute settlement system had its busiest year so
far, averaging 22 active panel, arbitration and Appellate Body
proceedings per month. The Dispute Settlement Body (DSB) received
17 requests for consultations, the first step in the dispute settlement
process, and established eight new dispute settlement panels.

Out of the 17 requests for consultations, three complaints
were filed by Brazil – against Indonesia, the United States and
Thailand. Three complaints were also filed by the United States
– all against China on three different matters: export duties
on raw materials, domestic support provided to agricultural
producers and China’s administration of its tariff‑rate quotas
for wheat, rice and corn. The other disputes were brought by
China (2), the European Union (2), India (2), Japan (2) and
Turkey, which filed a dispute for the first time since 2003.

The amendment came into force in January 2017 after the
protocol containing it was accepted by the necessary two‑
thirds of WTO members. The amendment makes permanent
a mechanism to ease poorer WTO members’ access to
affordable generic medicines produced in other countries.

WTO members agree on the importance of advancing
the development aspects of any negotiating topics.

Dispute settlement

A major milestone for the global trading system was reached in early
2017 when the first multilateral deal concluded in the 21-year history
of the WTO entered into force. Following ratification of the Trade
Facilitation Agreement (TFA) by Rwanda, Oman, Chad and Jordan in
February 2017, the WTO obtained the necessary number of acceptances
from the WTO’s 164 members for the Agreement to take effect.

R 140
G 156
B 193

MINISTERIAL TEXT

DG Azevêdo emphasized the need for clarity from WTO
members in terms of what they wish to see as a final outcome
and for flexibility to accommodate the circumstances of
other members.

A year in review

R 254
G 254
B 254

INDONESIA

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

100

www.wto.org/

14

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

Over 100 sessions were
held at the 2016 Public
Forum.

The WTO’s inaugural Trade Dialogues event brought together
over 60 business leaders to discuss how the WTO can
address the current needs of the business community.

In July, DG Azevêdo attended the G20 trade ministers meeting
in Shanghai, where he launched the WTO’s World Trade
Outlook Indicator, which aims to give an early indication of
global trade trends. In September, he attended the summit
of the G20 group of leading developed and developing
countries in Hangzhou, China. In November, he presented
then UN Secretary‑General Ban Ki‑moon with the WTO
Ministerial Decision on Export Competition, which delivers a
key contribution to meeting the UN’s Sustainable Development
Goal on “Zero Hunger”.

www.wto.org/

18

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

WTO publications
www.wto.org/publications

182

World Trade Organization Annual Report 2017

-----------------------Page 186 End-----------------------

Photo credits
Cover photos (clockwise from top right): © Shutterstock/tcly;
© WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO/Studio Casagrande;
© Nikada; © Rawpixel.com.

Page 71: © iStockphoto/izusek.

Page ii: © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO; © WTO/Studio
Casagrande; © WTO; © WTO.

Page 76: © Getty Images/Tempura.

Pages 3, 19, 91, 138, 140, 141, 142, 143, 157: © WTO/
Studio Casagrande.

Page 6 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO;
© Pixabay/skeeze; © WTO; © WTO; © Getty Images/OJO
Images RF; © WTO; © WTO.
Page 7 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © WTO;
© WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO/
ANTARA; © WTO.
Page 10: © iStockphoto/apomares.
Page 11: © Getty Images/Bruce Clarke.
Page 12: © iStockphoto/Nancy Nehring.
Page 13: © Panos/Sven Torfinn/H4+.
Page 20 (according to date): © Getty Images/Fabrice Coffrini;
© WTO; © WTO; © Newzulu Alamy Stock Photo; © WTO;
© Financial Times Live; © WTO; © WTO.
Page 21 (according to date): © WTO; © WTO; © Xinhua/
Pang Xinglei; © WTO/Studio Casagrande; © WTO; © WTO;
© WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO; © WTO.

Page 36: © SECO/Marco Zanoni.
Page 40 : © Dean Calma/IAEA.
Page 42: © Dean Calma/IAEA.
Page 49: © Adobe Stock/vichie81.
Page 54: © Adobe Stock/Rawpixel.com.
Page 69: © Adobe Stock/golubovy.

Page 80: © Adobe Stock/Goodpics.
Page 84: © iStockphoto/simonmuncer.

Pages 5, 8, 14, 17, 18, 22, 24, 25, 26, 30, 33, 37, 39, 41, 43,
44, 47, 60, 73, 79, 86, 87, 104, 116, 117, 124, 129, 135, 147,
152, 158, 159, 160, 163, 168, 169, 170, 172: © WTO.

Page 35: © Government of Wales.

Page 72: © iStockphoto/BeyondImages.

Page 85: © Getty Images/Peter Starman.
Page 89: © Pixabay/StockSnap.
Page 94 (clockwise from top left): © Shutterstock.com/
G‑Valeriy; © Alexandre Moreau; © Getty Images/ABDELHAK
SENNA; © Bloomberg; © Getty Images/Bloomberg/
JEAN‑CLAUDE COUTAUSSE; © Getty Images/ GIANLUIGI
GUERCIA; © Getty Images/ AFP/ ORLANDO SIERRA;
© Getty Images/ Glow Images, Inc.; © Getty Images/
Bloomberg.
Page 95 (clockwise from top left): © Getty Images/
Lonely Planet Images/Aldo Pavan; © Getty Images/AFP/
SERGEI SUPINSKY; © Shutterstock.com/Yulia Grigoryeva;
© Shutterstock.com/Thomas Koch; © Getty Images/
Bloomberg; © Getty Images/LightRocket/Gerhard Joren;
© Pixabay/Sharon Ang; © Shutterstock.com/chinahbzyg;
© Getty Images/Bloomberg; © Getty Images/Fairfax
Media/The Sydney Morning Herald/Kate Geraghty; © Irene
Scott for AusAID; © Getty Images/Moment/Vincent Jary;
© Shutterstock/Matej Kastelic; © Getty Images News/Reza.
Page 120: © Getty Images/moodboard.
Page 123: © Panos/Tim Smith.
Page 131: © EIF.
Page 132: © STDF.
Page 144: © Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Page 145: © Inter-Parliamentary Union.
Page 148: © WIPO/Emmanuel Berrod; © WTO.
Page 149: © Xinhua/Pang Xinglei.
Page 151: © Reuters/Aly Song.
Page 166: © Adrien Barakat.

ISBN 978-92-870-4144-9 (Print) / 978-92-870-4147-0 (web)
Printed by the WTO Secretariat.
Report designed by Paprika.
© World Trade Organization 2017
The Annual Report is also available in French and Spanish.

-----------------------Page 187 End-----------------------

World Trade Organization
Centre William Rappard
Rue de Lausanne 154
CH-1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
Tel. switchboard: +41 (0)22 739 51 11
email: enquiries@wto.org
Website: www.wto.org

ISBN 978-92-870-4147-0

-----------------------Page 188 End-----------------------

