GLOBAL REPORT
2019

F I N A N C I A L

|

O P E R A T I O N A L

|

S T A T I S T I C A L

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

GLOBAL
REPORT
2019

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

CONTENTS

CONTENTS

The Global Report presents the work carried out by UNHCR in 2019 to protect and improve the lives of tens
of millions of people of concern—refugees, returnees, internally displaced people, stateless persons, and others
of concern. It highlights the year’s achievements, as well as challenges faced by the organization and its partners,
in attempting to respond to multiple life-threatening crises and ever-growing humanitarian needs.

OVERVIEW
OF 2019

REGIONAL
THEMATIC
SUMMARIES CHAPTERS

8

70

154

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S

154 	 Safeguarding
fundamental rights

186 	 Responding with
lifesaving support

212	 Building better futures

162 	 Addressing and responding
to mixed movements

189	 Emergency preparedness
and response

214	 Delivering through
partnerships

164 	 Alternatives to detention

192	 Global supply management

166 	 Preventing and responding to
statelessness

216	 Voluntary return and local
integration

194	 Prevention and response
to sexual and gender-based
violence

220	 Resettlement and
complementary pathways

197	 Cash assistance

224	 Access to quality education

200	 Public health

227	 Livelihoods and economic
inclusion

156 	 Legal protection frameworks
158 	 Identifying international
protection needs and national
asylum systems
160	 Promoting and protecting
human rights

OVERVIEW OF 2019

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

14	

Key developments in 2019

68 	 Africa

14	

The Global Compact on
Refugees

96 	 The Americas

4	
	

UNHCR in 2020
UNHCR’s mission with key
data and achievements

8	

Foreword by the High
Commissioner

18	

The Special Envoy

24	 UNHCR’s engagement
in situations of internal
displacement

12	

Strengthening UNHCR

209	 Shelter and settlement
122 	 Europe

169 	 Registration, documentation
and identity management
172 	 Age, gender and diversityinclusive programming

230	 Strengthening city networks
and supporting the urban
displaced
233	 Energy and environmental
protection
236	 Public campaigns and
Goodwill Ambassador support

174 	 Community-based protection

32	 Global Strategic Priorities
	
Priority areas of concern
for UNHCR in 2019

68	 Map of populations of
concern to UNHCR as
of December 2019

206	 Water, sanitation and hygiene

108 	 Asia and the Pacific

29	 Climate action in 2019

34	 Funding UNHCR’s
programmes

203	 Nutrition and food security

ANNEXES

176 	 Gender equality

136 	 Middle East and North Africa

178 	 Child protection,
youth engagement and
empowerment

240	 Member States of UNHCR’s
Executive Committee and
Parties to the Refugee and
Statelessness Conventions

181 	 Protecting persons with
disabilities and older persons

242	Acronyms

184 	 Protecting LGBTI persons
in forced displacement

The Global Focus website is UNHCR’s main operational reporting platform for donors.
Regularly updated, it complements and augments information in the Global
Report with greater detail on UNHCR operations, data on key operational
themes and objectives, and in-depth information on UNHCR’s budgets,
funding and expenditure. It contains also a glossary of technical terms used
throughout this publication.

2 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

497,280

21,910

175,230

in 2019

per month (+12%)

downloaded

page views

visits

documents

14,600

documents
downloaded
per month (+22%)

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 3

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

MISSION

86.5M People of concern to UNHCR worldwide
4.1M

UNHCR IN 2019

The largest numbers of
pending cases were in

Asylum-seekers
pending cases

7%

Mission

UNHCR’s primary purpose is to safeguard the rights
and well-being of refugees. In its efforts to achieve this
objective, the Office strives to ensure that everyone
can exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe
refuge in another State, and to return home voluntarily.
By assisting refugees to return to their own country or
to settle permanently in another country, UNHCR also
seeks lasting solutions to their plight.
UNHCR’s Executive Committee (106 Member States
as of October 2019) and the UN General Assembly have
authorized involvement with other groups. These
include former refugees who have returned to their
homeland, internally displaced people, and persons
who are stateless or whose nationality is disputed.

The Office seeks to reduce situations of forced
displacement by encouraging States and other
institutions to create conditions which are conducive
to the protection of human rights and the peaceful
resolution of disputes. In all of its activities, it pays
particular attention to the needs of children and seeks
to promote the equal rights of women and girls.
The Office carries out its work in collaboration with
many partners, including governments, regional
organizations, and international and non-governmental
organizations. It is committed to the principle of
participation, believing that refugees and others who
benefit from the Office's activities should be
consulted over decisions which affect their lives.

GLOBAL WORKFORCE

STAFF MEMBERS

Gender breakdowns of UNHCR workforce

58% 42%

56% 44%

Global workforce by category
International

Affiliate

21%

27%

Field

Europe

11%

Africa

38%

HQs

50%

IDPs

6.6M

2.7M

The Syrian Arab
Republic (Syria)

Afghanistan

2.2M
South Sudan

3.6M Venezuelans displaced abroad**

24%

6.1M Others of concern

Refugees

**See footnote (6) in map of global populations of concern

4.2M

Stateless persons*

5.7M

Returnees (Refugees and IDPs)
Unresolved conflicts and insecurity in
countries of origin presented major
constraints for returns and their
sustainability.

43.5M IDPs

Many IDPs were in protracted situations
characterized by critical protection and
humanitarian challenges.

44% were in three countries
95,000
Syria

46,500

Central African
Republic

6.1M

8M

Syria

Largest IDP returns

2.1M

The Americas

90%
National

52%

* UNVs, individual contractors and consultants hired through UNOPS or directly, deployees, secondees and interns.

4 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

13%

Middle East and
North Africa

10%

Global

HQs 10%

5%

Stateless*

99,800

10%

Field

57% coming from three countries

Turkey

18%

(pending cases)

South Sudan

Global presence by region

15%

The Americas 3%

Largest refugee returns

4,631

Other

20%

31%

AFFILIATE WORKFORCE*

12,833

17,464

5%

Asia
and Pacific

Africa

Asylum-seekers

* Includes 1,113,315 stateless persons of
Rohingya ethnicity who are also counted
as refugees, asylum-seekers or others of
concern in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia,
Malaysia and Thailand or as IDPs in Myanmar.

UNHCR is present in 130 countries and territories with offices in 507 locations

HQs

Europe

4% Venezuelans
displaced abroad**
7% Others of concern

81,100 formerly stateless
individuals acquired a nationality
or had their nationality confirmed
in 26 countries

Global presence

39% 61%

Refugee populations by region of asylum

(Refugees and IDPs)

As of December 2019, 94 States are parties to the
1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless
Persons and 74 to the 1961 Convention on the
Reduction of Statelessness.

The Americas: 1.9 million
Europe: 1.2 million
Africa: 529,600

20.4M Refugees

Returnees

The High Commissioner for Refugees is mandated by
the United Nations to lead and coordinate international
action for the worldwide protection of refugees and
the resolution of refugee problems. As of November
2019, 149 States are parties to the 1951 Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees and/or to its
1967 Protocol.

MISSION

Asia and Pacific

12%

Middle East and
North Africa

20%

1.3M

Ethiopia
The Democratic
Republic of
the Congo

477,000

Colombia

5M

Syria

The Democratic
Republic of
the Congo

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 5

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

MISSION

MISSION

Key data and achievements in 2019
Unit: billion

FINAL BUDGET

CONTRIBUTIONS

$4.217

$8.636

18%

Funding gap

44%

Earmarked

21%

$4.415

UN pooled funding
and intergovernmental
donors

Tightly earmarked

$3.810

EXPENDITURE

2%

Private donors

10%

9%

used to deliver
$30 million-worth of CRIs to
23 emergency-affected countries

Cash assistance

Pillar 2
Stateless

Governments and
the European Union

7%

8 emergency airlifts, fulfilling 122 requests

15%

1%

Softly earmarked

7 global stockpiles

3%

UN Regular Budget

1%

$4.826*

Unearmarked

Pillar 4 IDPs
Pillar 3
Returnees

Core relief items

$650M

100 operations

distributed, 13% increase
on 2018

implemented cash assistance

80%

of cash assistance
disbursed electronically

Pillar 1 Refugees

82%

87%

*Funds available: contributions (voluntary contributions and UN Regular Budget); carry-over; other income and adjustments

Shelter

PARTNERSHIPS

15,198

86,426

116,527

deployed to 15 operations

received cash grants for rental
accommodation

received emergency shelter

$1.376
allocated to partners

709 national NGOs
191 international NGOs

206 government partners
20 UN agencies

31%

Refugee housing units

of global expenditure to partners

Safeguarding fundamental rights
Refugee status determination

2.3M new and appeal

16 States

asylum applications

adopted laws and legislative changes
improving refugee rights

were registered globally, including 120,400
registered by UNHCR (5% of the total)

Statelessness

Registration

who were formerly stateless acquired
a nationality or had their nationality
confirmed

biometrically registered in UNHCR's
Biometric Identity Management System
across 69 countries

81,074 individuals

Resettlement

1.4M

refugees in need of
resettlement

81,671

63,726

resettlement submissions
to 29 countries

UNHCR-facilitated
resettlement departures

8.8M individual records
Education
Primary school

63%

Responding with lifesaving support

of refugee children
attend

Emergencies

Secondary school

University

of refugee children
attend

of refugee youth
attend

24%

3%

3 IDP emergencies: Burkina Faso, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Cyclone Idai (Mozambique,
Malawi, Zimbabwe)

Energy and environmental protection

3 refugee emergencies: Costa Rica, Iraq, Niger

1M

838,220

100

refugees

tons of CO2 emissions

UNHCR offices

accessed a sustainable
source of cooking fuel

reduced by using cleaner
sources of energy

conducted an environmental
inventory

Emergency deployments
167 UNHCR emergency staff deployed
102 emergency standby partner staff deployed
6 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

People of concern

Building better futures

Legal protection
frameworks

6 new emergencies

Households

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 7

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

OVERVIEW | FOREWORD BY HIGH COMMISSIONER FILIPPO GRANDI

A decade
of crisis, a decade
of opportunity

In the course of the last ten years, UNHCR
has become in many respects a different
organization, working in a quite different
world.
As 2019 drew to a close, we reached
the end of a decade in which forced
displacement climbed to a record high.
The number of people of concern to the
Office rose from 36.4 million people in
2009 to over 86.5 million people at the
end of 2019. The number of refugees under
UNHCR’s responsibility almost doubled,
from 10.4 to 20.4 million, and internal
displacement grew by more than 60%
from 27.1 million people to 43.5 million.
Two of the biggest and most complex
crises currently facing us did not exist
in 2009. Then, the Syrian Arab Republic
(Syria) hosted over one million refugees,
the third highest number worldwide,
most of whom were from Iraq. By the
end of 2019, however, it had become the
epicentre of the largest displacement crisis
in decades, with nearly 15 million of its
people—well over half of its pre-war
population—displaced inside the country
or abroad.
In December 2009, more than
300,000 refugees had recently returned
home to southern Sudan as hopes for a
peaceful and prosperous future grew after
the signing of the Comprehensive Peace
Agreement in 2005. A decade later, more
than 2.2 million refugees have fled a
brutal civil war, and some 1.67 million people
are displaced within the world’s
newest country.
Crises persisted in Afghanistan, the
Democratic Republic of the Congo,

© UNHCR/Ivor Prickett

8 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Having fled Afghanistan 40 years ago, Abdul Rashid is a refugee
in Pakistan. Now in his 70s, he sells qabli—an Afghan dish
his family makes with rice, chicken, raisins and cumin—on the
streets of Quetta.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 9

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

and Somalia, and new or recurring crises in
many other countries required large-scale
emergency responses.
While the vast majority of refugees
remained in regions of origin, responses
to mixed movements, consisting of
refugees and migrants on the move for
different reasons, became more complex
and politically charged, as was the case
of the influx of more than a million refugees
and migrants into Europe in 2015. The
complexity of population flows deepened
as climate change, weak governance,
inequitable development, urban violence,
organized crime and transnational
extremist networks wreaked havoc and
despair across communities and regions.
As these fault-lines widened, the number
of refugees continued to grow.

OV E R V I E W I F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

With few political solutions reached,
voluntary repatriation benefited an average
of just under 400,000 refugees per year.
Resettlement as a solution declined. There
was a net drop in refugees departing for
resettlement, with some 86,200 refugees
resettled in 2009, but only 63,726 in 2019,
and this over a period during which the
number of refugees doubled.

the Congo, Iraq, Syria, Ukraine, Yemen and
the Lake Chad Basin remained among the
Office’s most politically and operationally
complex, and represented important
priorities.
The situation of stateless people also took
on greater prominence, as UNHCR’s
ten-year #IBelong Campaign reached the
half-way mark in 2019. UNHCR accelerated
its work with States and other partners to
eradicate statelessness, including through
the High-Level Segment in October 2019,
which resulted in some 360 pledges from
66 States, as well as from international
and regional entities and civil society
organizations.

As the decade drew to a close, UNHCR
was also stepping up its engagement with
the over 43.5 million internally displaced
people around the world. A new policy on
internal displacement was issued in 2019,
placing particular emphasis on protection
leadership, solutions and aligning
interventions with those of partners.
Major IDP operations in the Central African
Republic, the Democratic Republic of

© UNHCR/Georgina Goodwin

In Nyarugusu camp, in the United Republic of Tanzania, the High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi talks with an elderly
Congolese refugee.

10 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Last but not least, by the end of the decade
the climate emergency had taken on
considerable prominence, and climate-related
causes had become a growing driver of
displacement. UNHCR stepped up its
work to highlight in particular the protection
gaps resulting from climate-driven
cross-border displacement and helped
steer the policy and normative debate.
It also continued to work to help
governments deliver an operational
response to disaster-related displacement,
guided by protection considerations.
Further, in Bangladesh and elsewhere,
UNHCR reduced the environmental impact
of refugee crises through renewable
energy options, reforestation, and the
provision of clean fuels. Conscious of its
own environmental impact, UNHCR worked
to measure and reduce its carbon footprint.
In the course of the decade, it became
clear that tackling the challenge of refugee
crises and their complex root causes,
called for a bigger and broader ambition
than had been evident in the past. This vision
shaped the Global Compact on Refugees,
grounded in more equitable and

predictable burden- and responsibilitysharing by the international community,
and led to the Global Refugee Forum in
December 2019.
Through its burden- and responsibility-sharing
arrangements, the Compact built on and
accelerated many of the trends that had
been emerging in the course of the
decade—the growing involvement of the
private sector; the drive for practical
instruments to bridge the humanitariandevelopment divide, recognizing the
impact of large refugee flows for
development outcomes in hosting States;
and a shift from camp-based assistance
models that entrenched exclusion towards
a more inclusive one based on building
the resilience of both refugees and their
hosts. The Compact is notable for its
comprehensive approach that preserves
the humanitarian imperative, but brings in
peacebuilding, development action and
private sector investment, seeks to
leverage the Sustainable Development
Goals, and draws on synergies with
UN reforms.
In the East and Horn of Africa, for
example, the regional application of the
Comprehensive Refugee Response model
by the Intergovernmental Authority for
Development is helping strengthen asylum,
access to rights, and refugee inclusion in
health, education and national economies.
In Latin America, too, a regional application
has helped build a coherent response in
a context of high mobility. Expertise and
financing from the World Bank and other
international financial institutions, bilateral
development support and private sector
investments are helping drive these
achievements and so transforming the
lives of refugees and refugee-hosting
communities and providing models for
the Compact’s application elsewhere.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 11

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

OV E R V I E W I S P E C I A L E N VOY

The Special Envoy
It saw our needs-based budget increase
from $2.3 billion to $8.6 billion. UNHCR
received strong and steadfast support from
its donors throughout the decade, and
accelerated efforts to diversify its funding
base in the spirit of responsibility-sharing
and ensuring a stable platform for its work.
Nowhere was this more notable than in
the success of UNHCR’s private sector
fundraising, growing from $50.7 million
in 2009 to $421.7 million in 2019. Overall
funds available to UNHCR in 2019 reached
$4.8 billion; however, the gap between
requirements and available resources
remained at around 42% throughout
the decade.
The number of regular staff increased from
6,000 to over 12,800, and by the end of
2019 the entire workforce exceeded 17,460,
of whom 44% were female, and 90% of which
was in the field. The number of countries
and territories where UNHCR was present
increased from 126 to 130. UNHCR’s
regionalization and decentralization process,
undertaken in the course of 2019, brought
greater authority and flexibility for country
offices, front-loading support through
bureaux located in their regions, as part
of a wider transformation process.
Risk management was strengthened across
the Office, and systems and tools were
reinforced for preventing and responding
to misconduct, including sexual exploitation
and abuse, and sexual harassment.
These will remain important priorities in
the coming years.
UNHCR also continued to invest in the quality
of its work, improving and streamlining
systems and processes, creating space

12 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

for innovation, and increasing efficiency,
in line with its Grand Bargain commitments
and as an active participant in broader
UN reforms. A Joint Data Centre was
established together with the World Bank
and a new data transformation strategy
was issued in 2019 to help inform and drive
these efforts.
As the decade drew to a close, the Global
Refugee Forum marked a pivotal moment.
It was the largest-ever gathering on
refugee matters, building on many months
of consultations and bringing together
over 3,000 participants from diverse
backgrounds. It helped showcase what
had been achieved through the application
of the Comprehensive Refugee Response
model and generated some 1,400 pledges
across a broad range of areas. Some are
already being operationalized, or will
be very shortly, while others will take
more time, requiring legislative changes,
new instruments, or resources to support
their implementation.
Looking ahead to the decade to come,
I believe that in the Global Compact we
have a powerful tool, born of a narrative
of possibility and charting a measurable,
practical way forward. I hope that the
Compact, and the Global Refugee Forum,
can provide a springboard for collective
action, inspiring and driving our work
over the next decade and beyond, and
demonstrating in practical and concrete
ways why international cooperation
remains essential in addressing forced
displacement and other shared global
challenges, and how it can be made
to work.

© UNHCR/Santiago Escobar-Jaramillo

This decade of crisis and opportunity also
called for changes in how UNHCR equipped
itself to respond, with consequences for
its budget, its presence around the world,
and its staff and organizational culture.

“A generation of Rohingya children are still without access to the education they deserve.”

The Special Envoy talks to refugees in Chakmarkul camp, Cox's Bazar, Bangladesh.

UNHCR's Special Envoy, Angelina Jolie,
continued her focus on major displacement
situations and advocacy work for UNHCR
throughout the year, carrying out field visits
and other activities. Since joining in 2001,
the Special Envoy has now conducted more
than 65 field missions on behalf of UNHCR.

She heard humbling testimony from
Rohingya women, children and men who
had endured lifetimes of persecution and
discrimination, and urged continued
support for those who have been displaced
until such a time as refugees may return
voluntarily, in safety and in dignity.

In early 2019, the Special Envoy visited
Bangladesh for a three-day mission to
assess the humanitarian needs of Rohingya
refugees and some of the more critical
challenges faced in Cox’s Bazar, observing
as well the humanitarian response led
jointly by the Government of Bangladesh
and UNHCR. This was not the Special
Envoy’s first mission to this crisis, having
met with forcibly displaced Rohingya
people during prior visits to Myanmar in
2015, and India in 2006.

Focusing also on education, the Special
Envoy appealed strongly for access to formal
education for refugee children during her
visit with the Prime Minister in Dhaka,
subsequently raising the matter through an
exchange of letters with the Government.
Nearly a year later, Bangladesh announced
steps to improve education programmes for
Rohingya refugee children in the camps.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 13

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Key developments
in 2019
THE GLOBAL COMPACT ON REFUGEES
The Global Compact on Refugees, affirmed by the UN General Assembly in December 2018, sets out
arrangements for more equitable and predictable burden- and responsibility-sharing in response to large
refugee situations. There was important progress throughout 2019 towards the Compact’s four objectives,
including through operational achievements flowing from comprehensive refugee responses; as well as
the convening of the first Global Refugee Forum, one of the Compact’s key arrangements for burden- and
responsibility-sharing, and which collected some 1,400 pledges including more than 300 pledges made as part
of the High-Level Segment on Statelessness in October 2019. Progress was also made in establishing other
Compact arrangements for burden- and responsibility-sharing, as well as for follow-up and review.

16 - 18 December 2019, Geneva,
at a glance

Read more about the
Forum's outcomes

OUTCOMES OF THE
GLOBAL REFUGEE FORUM
2019

3,000+ participants

1,400 pledges

including 4 Heads of State/Government,
70+ refugees, 90+ ministers and
high-level government officials,
130+ private sector participants,
300+ other stakeholders

accross 6 areas of focus: burden- and
responsibility-sharing; education; jobs
and livelihoods; energy and infrastructure;
protection; and solutions

Pledges to ease pressures on host countries, including:
$2.2 billion

$2 billion

40 States

pledged for the IDA18
refugee sub-window

pledged from States
and other actors

and other
stakeholders
committed to support
green energy and
conservation efforts

$250 million pledged from the
private sector

Pledges to enhance refugee self-reliance, including:
100+ pledges

100+ pledges

170+ pledges

in support of inclusive
national policies

addressing jobs and
livelihoods

focused on expanding
access to quality
education

Progress towards the objectives of the Global Compact in 2019
Objective 1 | Easing pressure on host
countries
Considerable new resources supporting
additional instruments and programmes
were made available for refugees and
host communities by an increasing number
of donors in 2019. While support envisaged
under the Compact goes beyond funding
alone, the Forum saw States and other
stakeholders pledge over $2 billion for
refugees and their hosts; with an additional
$2.2 billion pledged by the World Bank
Group; and $1 billion from the Inter-American
Development Bank. The Forum also saw
progress in broadening the donor base,
notably with the private sector pledging
to contribute more than $250 million in
funding, as well as for the direct employment
of more than 15,000 refugees and other
support. Leveraging the Compact, UNHCR
worked closely with the OECD’s Development
Assistance Committee and its subsidiary
body, the International Network on Conflict
and Fragility (INCAF), to facilitate a new
approach to financing refugee situations
through the “INCAF Common Position on
supporting comprehensive responses in
refugee situations”.

There was also increased support for
national arrangements and coordinated
refugee responses. States in the Americas
participating in the regional comprehensive
protection and solutions strategy (MIRPS)
concluded a joint assessment and
quantification of the investment needed
to operationalize national action plans to
address displacement, identifying both
existing State resources and financing gaps
to be met through international support.
Ethiopia’s national arrangements—including
the national comprehensive refugee
response strategy, the latest in a series
of progressive developments with regards
to refugee rights—have attracted some
$1 billion in assistance from the international
community. More generally, both at regional
and national levels, government-led
coordination mechanisms were consolidated
in 2019, bringing together key ministries
beyond refugee departments, supported by
a broad range of stakeholders, in line with
the Compact’s multi-stakeholder approach.
As government-owned inclusive
mechanisms, these arrangements are
facilitating area-based responses for both
refugees and their hosts that align with
national planning priorities.

Global Compact burden- and responsibility-sharing arrangements established in 2019
The working modalities of the Asylum Capacity Support Group were finalized in 2019, prior to its
launch at the Forum. The Support Group can be activated at a State’s request to assist its national
authorities to strengthen or adapt their asylum systems.
Three Support Platforms were launched at the Forum to reinforce existing regional refugee responses
with more robust international support, including the MIRPS in the Americas, the Nairobi Process
facilitated by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD) in the East and Horn of Africa,
and the Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees (SSAR).

Global Academic
Interdisciplinary
Network
GLOBAL ACADEMIC
NETWORK
Linking academia, policy makers and practitioners in the
field of forced displacement and statelessness

The Global Academic Interdisciplinary Network was launched to facilitate research, teaching, and
scholarships relating to the Compact, including through support for refugee scholars and academics.

Pledges on solutions, including:

AT A GLANCE
The Global Compact on Refugees (GCR) states that “a global academic network on
refugee, other forced displacement, and statelessness issues will be established,
involving universities, academic alliances, and research institutions, together with
UNHCR and other relevant stakeholders, to facilitate research, training and scholarship
opportunities which result in specific deliverables in support of the objectives of the
global compact.” (GCR, paragraph 43)
The GCR Global Academic Network (GAN) is one of the GCR’s proposed
specific arrangements for burden and responsibility sharing.

CORE OBJECTIVES

180+ pledges

120+ commitments

focusing on achieving lasting solutions,
including voluntary repatriation

aimed at expanding third-country
solutions

14 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

The "Three Year (2019-2021) Strategy on Resettlement and Complementary Pathways" commenced,
with an ambitious blueprint for third-country solutions over the next ten years.

1. Facilitate research,
training and scholarship
opportunities which result
in specific deliverables
in support of the four
objectives of the Global
Compact on Refugees.

2. Help junior academics
and those in regions less
well-served by existing
networks to ‘plug in’
to global networks and
discussions.

3. Broaden the
geographical and
thematic scope
of disciplines and
academics working
on refugee and GCRrelated challenges and
opportunities.

unhcr.org

PB

The launch of the World Bank-UNHCR Joint Data Center on Forced Displacement in October 2019
marked progress towards better data on host country and community needs.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 15

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Objective 2 | Enhancing refugee
self-reliance
Progress was made in supporting refugees
to participate in the social and economic
life of host countries notably through access
to education. Building on good operational
practices, at the Forum some 180 pledges
were made on refugee education, including
support from the international community
for the inclusion of refugees in national
systems. Uganda’s “Integrated education
response plan for refugees and host
communities”, for example, received
matching pledges by several donors at the
Forum. Pledges were also made to ensure
recognition of refugee qualifications (Peru),
provide access to financial services, as well
as towards green energy and conservation
in refugee-hosting areas, including through
UNHCR’s Clean Energy Challenge.
In addition, 2019 saw a strengthening of
self-reliance by refugees and host
communities. The “Kampala declaration
on jobs, livelihoods and self-reliance for
refugees, returnees and host communities
in the IGAD region” (March 2019) explicitly
recalled the Compact in its commitments
to move beyond refugee camps and allow
refugees access to work. Support for access
to livelihoods was also advanced through
Forum pledges to ensure that refugees have
the same conditions of access to the labour
market as nationals, to provide business
development support services and low-cost
loans (African Entrepreneurship Collective,
Sweden, Grameen Crédit Agricole
Foundation) or to create jobs for refugees
(Qatar). Mexico and Germany pledged to
strengthen the social, cultural and economic
inclusion of refugees, asylum-seekers, IDPs
and migrants in vulnerable situations in up to
15 Mexican municipalities. In addition, 27 law
firms, bar associations, and corporations

16 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

pledged to provide 125,000 pro bono hours
to support refugees’ access to rights and
protection, which are key to self-reliance,
with 55 legal and community empowerment
organizations pledging also to collaborate
in this initiative.

Objective 3 | Expanding access to third
country solutions
Steps were taken to support refugees
in need to have access to resettlement
opportunities in an increasing number
of countries. Pursuant to the Three-Year
Strategy almost 80 pledges were made
at the Forum, with the European Union
announcing the collective commitment
by its Member States to resettle
30,000 refugees in 2020, and more than
20 States making individual resettlement
commitments. Countries that are part of the
Global Refugee Sponsorship Initiative States
Network issued a joint ministerial statement
noting their expansion of and support for
community-based refugee sponsorship
programmes.
Building on existing progress prior to the
Compact, States and other stakeholders
also stepped up commitments relating to
complementary pathways for admission.
Mexico pledged to facilitate student visas
for refugees identified for the Habesha
scholarship programme, and Norway pledged
to reduce the fee for family reunification
for recognized refugees. World University
Service of Canada and the ICU Japan
Foundation committed to provide
third-country scholarships for refugees,
and Talent Beyond Boundaries and more
than 25 companies jointly pledged to
consider refugees as candidates when
hiring internationally.

Objective 4 | Supporting conditions
in countries of origin for return in safety
and dignity

Establishment of follow-up and
review mechanisms under the
Global Compact

Resources were made available to support
the sustainable reintegration of returning
refugees by an increasing number of donorS
in 2019. At the Forum, over 400 pledges
were made to use political and financial
resources to address root causes, create
conditions that enable refugees to return
home voluntarily, and to help them rebuild
their countries. The World Bank Group
created a funding sub-window under its
International Development Association of
$2.5 billion to boost the private sector and
create jobs in countries affected by fragility,
conflict and violence, including many refugee
countries of origin.

Mechanisms to ensure follow-up and review
of the Compact and to assess progress
towards the achievement of its objectives
were established in 2019. These include:

Progress was also made to enable refugees
to return and reintegrate, socially and
economically, in 2019. Leveraging the
Compact, in the Central African Republic,
Iraq, Myanmar and Somalia, UNHCR
worked with partners such as UNDP and
UN-Habitat to remove obstacles for future
return, including through increased access
to justice, employment and basic services,
as well housing, land and property. In
Afghanistan, the launch of the Compact
support platform for the SSAR facilitated
UNHCR’s efforts to link humanitarian
interventions to development programming
in 15 priority areas. At the Forum, 10 countries
of origin pledged to work to create conditions
for voluntary, safe, dignified and sustainable
returns, including through conflict
resolution, rule of law and peacebuilding.

•	 A Global Compact indicator framework
containing 15 indicators to support
its periodic review and strengthen the
availability of global data structured
around its four objectives. The first
report on the Compact’s indicators will
be presented at the 2021 High-Level
Officials’ Meeting.
•	 Ongoing coordination by UNHCR
of a process to measure the impact
of hosting, protecting and assisting
refugees and to capture the costs
and contributions, particularly of
refugee-hosting States.
•	 A pledges and contributions tracking
dashboard as part of the Compact’s
digital platform, recording all pledges and
good practices from the Forum that will
be used to monitor implementation.

GCR pledges and
contributions
dashboard

(For more details on UNHCR's work on
objectives 2, 3 and 4, see Building better
futures.)

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 17

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

STRENGTHENING UNHCR
© UNHCR/Claire Thomas

allocation framework, consolidation of
regional asset management boards,
and committees on contracts supported
by greater authority. Devolution of
further authority to bureaux and country
operations to recruit and manage
personnel was completed, as was the
creation of technical positions in the
field such as dedicated regional data
analysis teams.

Strengthening risk management
and operational integrity
Risk management

Umar Khan, 65, an Afghan returnee from Pakistan, collects water from a solar-operated well near his home in Tarakhail Daag, near Kabul. Before the well was built
with UNHCR’s support, Umar had to walk far to collect water from a well near the main road or buy it from a water tanker.

The year saw the completion of the first
phase of reforms to strengthen UNHCR
and its capacity to operate in a new decade,
including decentralization and regionalization;
reinforcing risk management and operational
integrity; and partnerships. These reforms
were driven by the organization’s catalytic
and supportive role in the Global Compact
on Refugees; the need to better link
humanitarian responses with development
approaches (including through the United
Nations development system reform process);
and the quest for more accountability,
effectiveness and efficiency by the
United Nations and other humanitarian
actors, exemplified by the Grand Bargain.
18 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Strengthening the field:
decentralization and regionalization
As of 31 December 2019, the seven
regional bureaux had moved out of
Headquarters into their respective regions.
This was the first step in shifting capacities
and authorities closer to field operations in
order to improve the level and quality of
support, monitoring and oversight. NGO
consultations were also regionalized with
events in Amman and in Pretoria, a first
under the new structure.
Key internal processes to support the
decentralized structure were also finalized,
such as the revision of the resource

By the end of 2019, the “Risk management
2.0 initiative” (2018-2020) had resulted in
the establishment of a risk management
network across the organization including
senior risk management and compliance
advisors in the regional bureaux, and a
combination of country-based risk advisors,
roving advisors and/or training for in-country
focal points. Risk management positions
increased from three in 2017 to 30 at the
end of 2019, and over 2,500 staff were
e-trained in risk management and 600 risk
focal points received face-to-face training.
Staff in partner organizations were also
trained. UNHCR’s strategic risk register
was updated, and all UNHCR operations
and Headquarters entities carried out
a mandatory annual risk assessment.
These steps improved the quality of
available risk information and identification
of risk mitigation measures to support
future planning and decision-making.
With 2019 the midpoint of the “Risk
management 2.0” initiative, UNHCR
commissioned an independent review of its
enterprise risk management (ERM) maturity
and progress. The review found the system
met the standard for an “established”
function as set by the UN High-Level
Committee on Management risk maturity
model, with defined, documented and

standardized ERM processes in place
with good organizational coverage.
A plan of action was implemented
to respond to the recommendations
made through the maturity review and
benchmarking exercise. UNHCR also
participated in the inter-agency working
group on risk management under the
High-Level Committee to ensure a
harmonized approach to risk management
within the United Nations system.
Oversight and investigations
Two new frameworks strengthened
UNHCR’s integrity measures including
independent oversight and investigations.
The “Policy on independent oversight”
and the “Administrative instruction on
conducting investigations in UNHCR”
entered into force on 1 January 2020.
At the end of 2019, the Investigation
Service of the Inspector General’s Office
had a presence in Amman, Bangkok,
Nairobi and Pretoria, and the number of
complaints relating to misconduct
reached 1,200.
The increase was attributable to the
strengthening of the Investigation Service
through the professionalization of its
workforce; strong messaging on integrity
and the promotion of a “speak up” culture
from executive management; the impact of
the “Risk management 2.0 initiative” and
the establishment of senior risk advisors in
key operations; and mandatory training on
integrity matters. The top three misconduct
categories for complaints in 2019 included
fraud with financial implications, sexual
exploitation and abuse (SEA), and refugee
status determination or resettlement fraud.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 19

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Preventing and responding to sexual
exploitation and abuse and sexual
harassment
These remained key priorities as UNHCR
continued to implement its 2018 strategy
and action plan with a commitment to a
victim and survivor-centred approach.
UNHCR mapped good practices on
protection from SEA in 29 operations,
including in relation to leadership,
reporting, refugee engagement, and case
management. The network of focal points
for protection from SEA increased from
350 to 440, and they received online
and face-to-face technical support and
training, including through an interactive
platform. An independent evaluation of
UNHCR’s policies and procedures on
prevention of and response to SEA was
finalized in June 2019 and UNHCR began
implementing the recommendations,
many of which were in line with ongoing
and planned initiatives.
Efforts to encourage dialogue and
empower UNHCR staff members to detect
sexual misconduct, understand its impact
and undertake prevention and response
measures were intensified and expanded
in 2019. These wide-ranging initiatives
included: an informal exchange on sexual
harassment led by the High Commissioner
and livestreamed to all colleagues;
an ideas challenge to better address
sexual harassment within UNHCR, which
generated 42 proposals, four of which were
chosen for funding and showcased; the
development of two innovative learning
packages for UNHCR personnel, one each
on SEA and sexual harassment; closer
engagement with risk management experts
to better identify and mitigate risks associated

20 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

with sexual misconduct and the inclusion
of this topic in all risk management training;
and the piloting of a learning package for
managers to support organizational change.
These were complemented by integrating
responsibilities to combat sexual
misconduct in managerial job descriptions
as part of regionalization and increasing
capacity to run sexual misconduct checks in
the recruitment process.
Recognizing the need to capitalize on
inter-agency and other partnerships,
the High Commissioner took up the role
of IASC Champion on Protection from
Sexual Exploitation and Abuse and
Sexual Harassment in September 2019,
focusing on the three pillars of bolstering
prevention, expanding safe spaces, and
promoting a respectful use of authority.
The Deputy High Commissioner took
on the role of Interim Chair of the Chief
Executive Board’s Task Force on
Addressing Sexual Harassment, overseeing
initiatives including the development of
an investigator’s manual on sexual
harassment investigations, and the
integration of a victim-centred approach
in such investigations.
Accountability to affected populations
Strengthening UNHCR’s accountability to
people of concern remained a key pillar of
its reform and transformation efforts. The
framework for accountability to affected
people (AAP) remained a point of reference,
as part of the broader age, gender and
diversity approach.
UNHCR conducted a comprehensive
analysis of strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats in terms of
accountability to affected populations in

Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Jordan, Lebanon,
Uganda, and Sudan. UNHCR also contributed
to efforts to further accountability to
affected people across the wider United
Nations system, including within the IASC
and through workshops on leadership and
accountability to affected people for
resident coordinators, humanitarian
coordinators, deputy humanitarian
coordinators and OCHA heads of offices.

Strengthening partnerships
A multi-stakeholder and partnerships
approach is a cornerstone of the Global
Compact on Refugees, the High
Commissioner’s “Strategic directions
2017-2021” and UNHCR’s Grand Bargain
commitments. The participation of a
broad range of stakeholders including
development and peace actors and the
private sector at the Global Refugee Forum
demonstrated this approach in practice
(see the Global Compact Overview).
In 2019, UNHCR also commissioned a
review of the Refugee Coordination Model,
taking into account lessons learned in
the five years of implementation to shape
a new partnership approach. The main
recommendation was the need to foster
inter-agency and partnership skills across
all levels in the organization.
UNHCR supported the United Nations
reform agenda as an active member of the
Chief Executives Board for Coordination,
and the IASC. Within the IASC, UNHCR
co-led the results group on accountability
and inclusion, focusing on accountability
to affected communities, localization,
disability inclusion and risk communication.
The “Guidelines on disability inclusion
in humanitarian action” were launched,

with UNHCR steering the process through
the IASC results group and leading the
protection input.
UNHCR participated in 23 out of 25
inter-agency humanitarian response plans
and some 100 United Nations Development
Assistance Frameworks or United Nations
Sustainable Development Cooperation
Frameworks. Regional refugee response
plans—often co-led by UNHCR and
UNDP and collectively involving over
580 partners—were coordinated for the
Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Nigeria, South Sudan and Syria
situations. UNHCR and IOM continued to
co-lead the regional Refugee and Migrant
Response Plan for the Venezuela situation,
and coordinated the Bangladesh Joint
Response Plan for refugees from Myanmar
with 48 partner agencies.

See the Refugee
Funding Tracker
for information on
funding to RRPs

Cooperation continued with partners
including FAO, ILO, IOM, OCHA,
UN-Habitat, UNDP, UNICEF, WFP and
WHO, with new memorandums of
understanding signed with FAO and
UN-Habitat. UNHCR was also a member
of the executive committee of the United
Nations Network on Migration, coordinated
by IOM, to ensure UN system-wide support
to States in implementing the Global
Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular
Migration. Collaboration between UNHCR
and the World Bank Group was furthered
with the establishment of a Joint Data Centre,
which will improve the collection and
analysis of population and socioeconomic
data on people of concern and host
communities.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 21

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

NUMBERS OF PARTNERS AND EXPENDITURE | 2019

EXPENDITURE ON PARTNERS BY RIGHTS GROUP | US D millions

Basic needs and essential services

544

Fair protection processes and documentation
156

Logistics and operations support

131

Security from violence and exploitation

$1.376 billion
Total funds entrusted
to 1,126 partners

107

Headquarters and regional support

80
191 International
NGO partners
$607.5 million

65

Leadership, coordination and partnerships

57

Durable solutions

55
100

UNHCR reached its Grand Bargain
commitment of providing 25% of its
programme expenditures through local
and national responders, up from 18%
in 2015. Some $752.6 million was provided
to 915 local and national responders,
including $575 million to 709 NGO
partners, the highest number of local
and national partners recorded. Overall,
UNHCR disbursed some $1.376 billion
to 1,126 partners, many of them working
to provide lifesaving protection and
assistance in some of the world’s most
difficult or dangerous humanitarian
environments. The main activities, some
40%, involved support for basic needs and
essential services, a figure which closely
paralleled overall UNHCR expenditure.

22 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

206 Government partners
$177.6 million

180

Community empowerment and self-reliance

Favourable protection environnment

20 UN Agencies/IOM
$16.1 million

709 National NGO partners
$575 million

200

300

400

500

600

UNHCR introduced a policy on partner
integrity capacity and support costs to
enhance the integrity, accountability,
oversight and general support for national
and international NGOs undertaking
UNHCR-funded projects. With almost all
local NGO partners benefitting from the
new arrangement by the end of 2019,
full compliance is due by 2021. A guidance
handbook was released for partners on
engaging and working with UNHCR.
UNHCR operations were able to enter into
multi-year partnership agreements (with or
without having multi-year funding),
and 34 such agreements were in place
at the end of 2019.

UNHCR’s annual consultations with
NGOs took place in July 2019, attended
by 500 delegates from some 300 civil
society organizations working in more than
80 countries, and focused on the theme
of “working together better”. The NGO
Innovation Award was given to the Xavier
Project (community-led learning) for
connectivity, to Video Games Without
Borders (for making literacy accessible), and
to Laboratorio 53 ONLUS (for soundwalks
bringing together refugees and local
communities in Rome).
The implementation of Multi-year, multi
partner strategies in 22 operations*
enabled UNHCR to continue applying
comprehensive responses at country level,
bringing comparative advantages to

resolve protection and solution challenges
in a sustainable way for people of concern,
including helping bring humanitarian and
development actors closer together.
Lessons learnt have been integral for the
ongoing renewal of UNHCR’s results-based
management (RBM) approach. Within
a wide-ranging set of reforms and
innovations, the new RBM approach will
incorporate key changes in operations
management processes. These include
empowering UNHCR’s field operations to
develop, implement and monitor multi-year,
context-appropriate protection and solution
strategies and plans for UNHCR and
(implementing) partners’ responses,
focusing on joint results for outcomes
and impacts.

* Algeria, Brazil,
Cameroon, Chad,
Colombia, Costa Rica,
Djibouti, Ghana,
Ethiopia, Ecuador,
Kenya, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico,
Niger, Rwanda,
Senegal, Uganda,
Ukraine, the United
Republic of Tanzania
and the Regional
Office for Northern
Europe

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 23

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

UNHCR's ENGAGEMENT IN SITUATIONS OF INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT
© UNHCR/Mysa Khalaf

A grandmother and her grandchild receive humanitarian assistance at Rukban, in the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria).

For more
information on
internal displacement
and related trends,
see Chapter 3
of the 2019 Global
Trends report.
GLOBAL
TRENDS

FORCED
DISPLACEMENT
IN 2019

There were 43.5 million people internally
displaced worldwide in 2019, fleeing
violence, armed conflict, and human rights
violations. There were 10.8 million new
displacements associated with conflict,
violence and disasters across 148 countries
and territories, mostly due to unresolved
conflicts and a rise in communal violence.
Looking back at 2019, the year saw a complex
set of trends in internal displacement and
a reinvigorated, stepped-up response
from UNHCR.

24 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Intercommunal violence triggered massive
internal displacement and, in some cases,
spillover across international borders.
This was particularly the case in the Sahel,
with vulnerable populations in Burkina Faso,
Mali and Niger forced into flight. UNHCR
activated an internal L2 emergency
declaration in Burkina Faso and stepped up
emergency preparedness in Mali and
Niger. In the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC), violence in the North and
South Kivu and Ituri Provinces saw an
L3 emergency declared for the ensuing
large-scale internal displacement.

Fragmented international peace efforts
contributed to the continuation of
internal displacement. Countries such as
Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, and Yemen were
cases in point. Alongside operational
delivery, UNHCR enhanced advocacy for
the protection of civilians, humanitarian
access and principled humanitarian action
through engagement with key stakeholders
in relevant regional and international
political fora.
Major natural disasters, such as Cyclone
Idai in Mozambique and neighbouring
countries, and slow-onset climate change
drove significant internal displacement.
UNHCR led the inter-agency protection
response in Mozambique, providing timely
information and analysis to inform the
wider humanitarian response, targeted
assistance to IDPs, and support to
authorities. Climate change contributed
to worse, and more frequent, seasonal
droughts and flooding, with resulting
internal displacement in countries such
as Afghanistan, Ethiopia, South Sudan,
and Yemen. UNHCR developed
contingency plans, delivered emergency
relief items, and coordinated protection,
shelter and CCCM preparedness and
response interventions, to enable early
action and community resilience.
These trends wove through the more than
30 operations in which UNHCR assisted
IDPs and other crisis-affected populations.
With its IDP work based on IASC-assigned
leadership accountabilities and adherence
to principles of partnership, UNHCR
contributed to IASC-led humanitarian
reform processes, including those related
to operational response, accountability
and inclusion, collective advocacy,
humanitarian-development collaboration,
humanitarian financing, and collective
outcomes.

The year also saw the release of an
updated IDP Policy, which recommitted
UNHCR to being a predictable and
effective actor in situations of internal
displacement both operationally and
within inter-agency response mechanisms,
in support of affected States and
communities.
Along with the Policy, UNHCR stepped up
its support to IDPs through the progressive
adjustment of internal systems, processes
and tools to enable revitalized engagement
in internal displacement situations,
including:
•	 A Principal Advisor on Internal
Displacement to facilitate
whole-of-UNHCR coherence.

Policy on UNHCR's
engagement
in situations
of internal
displacement

POLICY ON UNHCR’S
ENGAGEMENT IN SITUATIONS
OF INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT
UNHCR/HCP/2019/1

© UNHCR/Anna Hellge

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

•	 Development of a forthcoming
preparedness package for IDP
emergencies.
•	 Overhaul of existing RBM systems
for smarter integrated and equitable
programming to target people
of concern.
•	 Launch of a data transformation strategy
emphasizing strategic partnerships
with key data partners on UNHCR's
engagement in internal displacement
situations. The establishment of Data,
Identity Management and Analysis units
in regional bureaux will contribute to
more coherent regional overviews also
on IDP data.
•	 Solutions-orientation including for IDPs
to be adequately reflected through the
UNHCR-World Bank Joint Data Centre.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 25

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Protection in a
Climate of Change
Strategic
Framework
2020-2024
PROTECTION IN A
CLIMATE OF CHANGE

STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK
2020-2024

•	 Development of a mandatory managerial
e-learning module on engagement
in internal displacement situations,
and strengthened human resource
management systems.

disaster—in 30 operations. In 2019,
the GPC developed its new strategic
framework, which sets out the Cluster’s
commitments and areas of focus for the
next five years.

•	 Support to the UN Secretary-General’s
High-Level Panel on Internal
Displacement.

To address complex protection issues
at the field level, the GPC provided remote
support through technical advice and
sharing of good practices. The GPC reviewed
the Humanitarian Country Team protection
strategies in Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Libya,
Syria, Sudan and the State of Palestine,
and fielded a mission to Syria to support
protection mainstreaming and the
humanitarian response plan, while it
addressed protection concerns through
its community of practice platform.

Global collaboration on internal
displacement

Global Protection Cluster
(UNHCR-led)
The Global Protection Cluster (GPC)
is a network of more than 1,400 NGOs,
international organizations and
UN agencies working on protection for
some 84 million people—IDPs and other
populations affected by conflict and natural

26 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Global CCCM Cluster
(co-led with IOM)
UNHCR coordinated partners to provide
CCCM services and support to over
9.5 million IDPs and other affected
populations targeted through humanitarian
response plans. UNHCR provided 123 days
of capacity-building mission support to
Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Jordan and Sudan
and 260 days of cluster coordination,
information management and camp
management support missions to the
Burkina Faso, Chad, Colombia, the DRC,
Nigeria, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
and Yemen, with a focus on the 14 (out of
23) activated country-level CCCM clusters
and cluster-like mechanisms co-led
by UNHCR.

To build the capacity of field protection
clusters and protection actors, the GPC
organized a training of trainers on law and
policy on internal displacement with
19 participants from the DRC, Equatorial
Guinea, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa
and Zimbabwe. The GPC Task Team on
Anti-Trafficking also conducted workshops
with protection actors in Nigeria, Myanmar,
South Sudan, Switzerland and Ukraine
to sensitize responders on integrating
anti-trafficking action into protection work.
In order to understand protection challenges
and contribute to future guidance, the GPC
convened two thematic roundtables with
80 participants on the “Use of data to promote
age, gender and diversity mainstreaming”
and on “Operating in violent extremism and
counter terrorism environments”. In addition
to the roundtables, three webinars with
1,114 participants were organized on “climate
preparedness and community-based
protection”, “coordination and collaboration
with the GPC”, and “the future of protection
in the humanitarian, development, peace
and security nexus”.

Many multi-sectoral humanitarian
interventions are implemented in
environments with limited access, and in
small and informal sites where IDPs were
able to find some safety. Such environments
are challenging for the coordination of
services and interventions. Based on field
input and lessons learned, the Cluster
developed guidance on management and
coordination of collective settings through

© UNHCR/Marta Iwanek

UNHCR and OCHA co-chaired the
20th anniversary of the Guiding Principles
on Internal Displacement (GP20)
Initiative—a multi-stakeholder effort to
galvanize and intensify collaborative action
by States, UN agencies, NGOs, national
human rights institutions and civil society
to address the challenge of internal
displacement. The co-chairs fostered
dialogue and collective action on internal
displacement with States, particularly in the
ECOWAS and IGAD regions, supported the
development and implementation of laws
on internal displacement in El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Niger and South Sudan, and
advocated the ratification of the Kampala
Convention in Somalia and South Sudan.
GP20 supported UNHCR's work in Colombia,
Ethiopia, Georgia, Kosovo (S/RES/1244 (1999))
and Ukraine to advance solutions for IDPs,
and with the Central African Republic for a
more harmonized approach to the collection
and use of data on internal displacement.
Global Protection
Cluster website

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

a mobile area-based approach supported by
a volume of case studies. The guidance has
been already applied in Somalia and Yemen.

Global CCCM
Cluster website

With over a million IDPs living in hundreds
of makeshift camp-like locations across
Yemen, the delivery of humanitarian
assistance was sporadic, unequal, and at
times ineffective. To address this, UNHCR
separated CCCM from the merged
Shelter/CCCM Cluster to create a stand-alone
CCCM Cluster. Since then,
it has effectively intervened in 143 informal
settlements hosting over 123,000 IDPs,
focusing on identification of needs,
community engagement and leadership
of projects, and maintenance of the
camps infrastructure.
Site-specific and population data/
information management systems are vital
for the CCCM Cluster to profile displaced
populations, monitor services and facilitate
the interventions of other clusters. A
partnership with CartONG allowed CCCM
clusters in Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia, and Syria
(cross-border) to improve visual
representation and management of
geographical and site monitoring data,
enhancing evidence-based response.

Clearing landmines in Ukraine,
one careful step at a time
With nearly 734,000 people internally displaced,
Ukraine is one of the most mine-infected countries in
the world.
The most severely-mined areas are those near or along the
contact line, where civilians are most at risk.
Coordinated by the UNHCR-led Protection Cluster, the HALO
Trust, a British demining charity, is helping to clear these
landmines. Mines are not the only threat, however. More support
is needed for mine victims and their families, including long-term
medical care, rehabilitation and psychosocial support.
“I’m happy to be reducing the chance of deaths of
both adults and children. I hope one day Ukraine will
be a country free from landmines.”
—Tetiana Nikoforva, Ukrainian demining expert.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 27

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Global Shelter
Cluster website

The Global Shelter Cluster (GSC) provided
support to 30 field clusters throughout
the year, coordinating 639 partners and
providing shelter and NFI support to over
14.2 million people affected by natural
disasters and IDPs affected by conflict with
the means to live in safe, dignified and
appropriate shelter. UNHCR led 15 clusters,
thereby contributing to reaching about
70% of people targeted by shelter
interventions, and the GSC support team
provided 503 mission support days
and 697 days of remote support (55% by
UNHCR), including to the newly-established
clusters in Burkina Faso and the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela.
With the shelter sector only 28% funded
in 2019—despite acknowledgment
that lack of access to shelter has broader
impacts on affected populations’ health,
education, and livelihoods, and increases
their vulnerability to protection risks—
UNHCR-led clusters innovated in designing
and implementing activities to deliver
efficient and effective responses.
For example, in Iraq, working with local
partners the Shelter Cluster promoted

28 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

solutions-oriented shelter responses
while also addressing emergency needs.
Guidelines were produced on rehabilitation
of war-damaged buildings while delivering
cash, combined with in-kind material
assistance and technical support.
This resulted in a cost-effective and
customized response that was more
relevant to the diverse shelter needs
of the affected population.

CLIMATE ACTION IN 2019
© UNHCR/Elizabeth Stuart

Global Shelter Cluster
(co-led with IFRC)

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

Elsewhere, the Somalia Shelter Cluster
developed guidance on the distribution
of NFI kits, harmonizing both the process
and kit contents to ensure equality and
consistency of implementation approaches
and technical standards, while ensuring a
more efficient use of limited resources.
In the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela,
the complex needs and implementation
modalities required GSC support to
establish a national coordination
mechanism. With energy identified as
a pressing need, the Cluster provided
technical support to partners on renewable
and alternative energy sources for shelter,
health, and education infrastructures.
Capacity-building activities were carried
out with local partners to increase access
to populations living in remote locations.

Community members take advantage of a lowering of flood waters to run errands in Maban county, South Sudan. Three days later, this road was completely impassable.

In 2019 disasters triggered 24.9 million
new displacements (IDMC). This is the
highest figure recorded since 2012
and nearly three times the number of
displacements caused by conflict and
violence. Global trends are likely to see
disasters and environmental degradation
as increasing contributors to global
displacement—either as direct causes
or threat multipliers.

the impacts of climate change on certain
regions may also hamper, or even rule out,
possibilities for voluntary return.

People of concern to UNHCR are on the
frontlines of climate change, with refugees
and IDPs often hosted in “climate hotspots”
where they are exposed to the risk of
secondary or multiple displacement due
to disasters linked to natural hazards and
the effects of climate change. Furthermore,

In line with its protection mandate and
the analysis that disasters are expected
to increase due to global warming, both in
frequency and intensity, in 2019 UNHCR
continued its work on legal and normative
developments on international protection
for people displaced in the context of

Climate change and its effects on how
and when people are displaced is thus of
importance to UNHCR, with both legal and
operational relevance to its work, spanning
preparedness, to emergency response,
to solutions.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 29

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I K E Y D E V E LO P M E N T S I N 2 0 1 9

UNHCR also turned its attention to
mitigating its own environmental footprint,
scaling up its contribution to UN-wide
sustainability targets by better monitoring
its carbon emissions. In 2019, 100 UNHCR
offices participated in the environmental
inventory, which covered emissions of
greenhouse gases, waste generation
and water use—up from 10 in 2018—thus
enabling a better estimation of the whole
organization’s emissions. UNHCR procured
Certified Emission Reductions from two
wind power projects in India to offset all
its emissions for 2019, making it carbon
neutral and fully compliant with the
UN Climate Neutral Strategy.

UNHCR's revised IDP Policy reaffirms
that in countries prone to displacement,
UNHCR will participate in inter-agency
emergency preparedness measures, and
strengthen local and national capacity to
prevent and mitigate displacement risks.
UNHCR also affirmed its commitment to
contribute to any inter-agency response
to disaster-induced internal displacement,
taking the lead on protection, whenever
the criteria—outlined in UNHCR’s IDP
Policy—are met, including in the context
of displacement linked to environmental
degradation and climate change.
UNHCR worked to improve people
of concern’s access to sustainable and
clean energy and bolster the environmental
protection of refugee-hosting areas, launching
the “Global strategy for sustainable energy
2019-2024” (see Building better futures).
The Strategy aims to ensure that the
priority energy needs of people of concern
for cooking, lighting and heating are safely
and sustainably met, supporting both
refugees and host communities.
At the Global Refugee Forum, the High
Commissioner launched the Clean Energy
Challenge, the aim of which is for “All refugee
30 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Looking to a future in which UNHCR can
anticipate and be better equipped for the
challenges ahead, in October 2019 the
High Commissioner appointed a Special
Advisor on Climate Action. This position
will provide strategic guidance, oversight
and expertise to shape UNHCR's climate
action agenda, and respond to the growing
challenges and protection concerns posed
by climate change. Moving forward, climate
action at UNHCR will be approached in a
way that facilitates collaboration, and
supports development plans and host
governments, both in addressing current
needs and in preparing for the future.
Climate action at UNHCR will build on the
“Global strategy for sustainable energy”
and UNHCR’s role as cluster lead or
co-lead in internal displacement situations.
In line with the Global Compact, UNHCR
will support measures that assist those
forcibly displaced by disasters and enable
those in need of international protection
to receive it, as well as address root
causes, drivers and triggers of displacement.

The greening of Cox’s Bazar the positive impacts of
liquified petroleum gas
distribution among refugee
and host communities
Once heavily forested, Cox’s Bazar has suffered
over the years from deforestation as communities
have cut wood for construction and cooking, with
studies showing the forested area has declined by
approximately 40% since the 1990s. With the arrival of
hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing violence in
Myanmar, the rate of deforestation greatly increased.
To counter this, since August 2018 UNHCR has been distributing an alternative fuel—liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG)—and improved cooking stoves, reducing the need for refugees to gather firewood from the nearby forest.
Currently, over 107,000 refugee households within the camps are receiving LPG, and the results have been
remarkable. According to a UNHCR-commissioned study, in just under a year and a half since LPG's distribution,
there has been an 80% reduction of demand for firewood by Rohingya households in the camps. The impact of
this initiative, as well as the work of partners and other reforestation efforts, is striking and visible.
© UNHCR Bangladesh

UNHCR was active in the State-led
Platform on Disaster Displacement and
the Task Force on Displacement under
the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, at a time when both entities saw
their mandate and workplans renewed.
UNHCR co-organized or contributed to
events where climate change and disaster
displacement were key features, including
with the African Union and at COP 25 in
Madrid. UNHCR also worked to develop
regional guidelines on human mobility
in the context of climate change.

Delivering through partnerships

© UNHCR Bangladesh

settlements and nearby host communities
to have access to affordable, reliable,
sustainable and modern energy by 2030”.

© UNHCR Bangladesh

climate change and disasters. It also raised
awareness on displacement and related
protection needs in global policy discussions.

In line with the objective of the Global Compact to ease pressure on host communities, the initiative was
scaled up in 2019 to include vulnerable local families. UNHCR and IOM began providing LPG to local communities
near the camps, with 10,700 local families receiving LPG in 2019. Similar reductions in the use of firewood have
been observed.
Parallel efforts by members of the Energy and Environment Technical Working, in collaboration with the Bangladesh
Forest Department, saw more than 300 hectares of land reforested in 2019 alone. This also contributes to disaster
risk reduction through the stabilization of soil, which leads to a reduction in landslides.
LPG’s benefits go beyond easing pressure on forests. It has an impact on food habits and nutrition due to ease of
cooking and reduces pollution in the kitchen. The spectrum of ingredients and food diversity has increased for all
households using LPG and in terms of nutritional balance, LPG users are found to be consuming more vitamins,
as their intake of vegetables has increased.
Having LPG at home means women and girls need not travel long distances to collect firewood, thus reducing the
risk of sexual and gender-based violence. And children, who used to spend hours collecting firewood, now have
more time for classes.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 31

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

OV E R V I E W I G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

GLOBAL STRATEGIC
PRIORITIES 2018-2019

Integrated
Refugee Health
Information
System

The Global Strategic Priorities (GSPs) for
the 2018-2019 biennium set out areas
targeted by UNHCR to enhance protection
for people of concern and identify solutions
for them. The GSPs are divided into two
categories: operational priorities for field
operations and support and management
priorities for core organizational functions.
The operational priorities influence the
development and implementation of
country-level plans by field operations
and take into account the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development. The support
and management GSPs reflect UNHCR’s
2017-2021 Strategic Directions, as well
as commitments made at the World
Humanitarian Summit and under the Grand
Bargain. In line with the Global Compact on
Refugees, UNHCR continued strengthening
a broad range of partnerships within the
humanitarian and development fields and
the private sector.
UNHCR’s operations collected and analysed
programme implementation information and
communicated progress and results through
Focus, UNHCR's results-based management
system, as well as through the organization’s
integrated refugee health information system.

ACHIEVEMENTS
Continued efforts across core GSP areas
prompted significant improvements in
several areas. At the end of 2019, 149 States
were party to the 1951 Convention relating

32 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

to the Status of Refugees, its 1967 Protocol,
or both. The first Global Refugee Forum
encouraged many States to address
refugee protection in a more comprehensive
manner. UNHCR-led efforts to reinforce
collaboration aimed at addressing internal
displacement, including through the
improvement of legislation and national
policies in Ethiopia, Mali, the Philippines,
Somalia and the Syrian Arab Republic.
Angola acceded to the 1954 Convention
relating to the Status of Stateless Persons
and the 1961 Convention on the Reduction
of Statelessness, while Colombia and Malta
acceded to the 1954 Convention. This brought
to 94 the number of States party to the
1954 Convention, and 74 States to the 1961
Convention. Furthermore, the Kyrgyz Republic
became the first country to resolve all known
cases of statelessness on its territory, having
granted nationality to 13,700 stateless
persons over the last five years.
UNHCR registered over 8.8 million refugees
in its digital population registration and
identity management ecosystem (PRIMES)
and strengthened its identity management
capacity to achieve a 38% expansion
in coverage compared to 2018. Some
15,200 refugee housing units (RHUs)
were deployed to 15 operations with
219,000 people of concern (including some
90,020 IDPs) living in them by year’s end.
UNHCR supported new and ongoing
emergencies, dispatching $30 million-worth

of emergency core relief items from seven
global stockpiles to 23 emergency-affected
countries. Approximately $650 million
in cash assistance was distributed, an
increase of 13% compared to 2018 and
50% compared to 2015. Of the cash
provided by UNHCR, 95% was unrestricted
in use.
UNHCR launched the "Refugee Education
2030" strategy, and supported the launch
of the Tertiary Refugee Student Network,
a global network of refugee students
committed to enabling 15% of all refugee
students to access higher education by
2030. Supporting community empowerment
and self-reliance, UNHCR invested in
the capacities and skills of people of
concern. UNHCR expanded its MADE51
multi-stakeholder initiative to provide
refugee artisans with access to international
markets developing refugee-made
product lines in 15 countries.

CHALLENGES
Throughout 2019, UNHCR staff and partners
planned, budgeted, implemented and
adjusted strategies tailored to their local
context, applying those GSPs which were
relevant, and reprioritizing in the face
of unexpected developments. In some
instances, reprioritization forced operations
to address certain essential needs
over others, due to limited availability
of resources.
The main challenge, however, remained
that of accommodating a comprehensive
response within limited budgetary resources
which, in 2019, left a 44% funding gap.

and a rise in food insecurity in places such
as Chad, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Kenya,
Malawi and South Sudan. They also
hampered progress achieved by both
UNHCR and partners on the prevention of
risk mitigation for and response to sexual
and gender-based violence in emergencies
and protracted situations, with challenges
including lack of funding, limited access
to justice for survivors, insecurity and
limited and fragmented services in certain
locations.
There were also constraints on UNHCR’s
work to promote solutions. In 2019,
63,726 refugees referred by UNHCR
were resettled to 29 countries, a modest
increase from 2018 which surpassed the
target of 60,000 set out in UNHCR’s
Three-Year Strategy. Still, this represents
less than 5% of the 1.4 million refugees
estimated to be in need of resettlement.
Although other durable solutions, such
as local integration or repatriation had
some successes, none of them kept pace
with needs, and in only in very few
situations did conditions allow for voluntary
return in safety and dignity.

Refugee Education
2030: A Strategy
for Refugee
Inclusion
REFUGEE
EDUCATION

2030

A Strategy for
Refugee Inclusion

2019 EDITION

The Three Year
(2019-2021)
Strategy on
Resettlement and
Complementary
Pathways

The Three-Year Strategy (2019-2021)
on Resettlement and
Complementary Pathways
June 2019

MORE INFORMATION
Detailed reporting on UNHCR’s
achievements and challenges across all
GSP areas in 2019 can be found in the
2019 GSP Progress Report, which
is available on the Thematic page
of the Global Focus website.

Limited resources resulted in cuts
across the range of planned services and
activities. They affected lifesaving
assistance and support to meet basic needs,
with cuts to food and nutritional assistance

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 33

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

Funding UNHCR’s
Programmes
TABLE 1

The total population of concern to UNHCR grew
in 2019 to reach 86.5 million people, an increase
of nearly 16% from the 74.8 million of 2018.
In response to new, protracted or worsening crises
generating greater needs, UNHCR’s 2019 global
needs-based budget increased by 5% in
comparison with 2018.

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE | USD

REGION AND SUB-REGION

REGION AND SUB-REGION
PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Eastern Europe

Expenditure

10,352,157
6,450,998
5,788,161
2,257,051
2,817,860
742,175
1,513,290
1,363,026

37,624,511
11,632,820
156,010,483
34,713,377
31,569,912
19,798,047
-

59,326,284
287,895,697
32,050,326
184,400,200
121,987,863 1,682,446,598
75,312,519
752,514,898
91,297,824
595,245,878
66,870,514
310,434,789
8,712,717
110,308,269
5,667,724
73,975,378

Budget

2,148,895,380

20,471,468

225,204,907

281,324,688 2,675,896,442

Expenditure
East and Horn of Africa

Budget
Expenditure

Central Africa and the Great Lakes

Budget
Expenditure

Southern Africa

SUBTOTAL AFRICA

Budget

Expenditure

1,064,466,687

10,813,250

66,144,244

179,901,083 1,321,325,265

THE AMERICAS
Regional Bureau and activites for the Americas

Expenditure

11,936,200
5,389,022
28,849,188
20,048,325
318,655,186
213,616,269

8,415,010
3,672,122
981,548
289,722

-

16,963,267
8,638,012

11,936,200
5,389,022
37,264,197
23,720,447
336,600,001
222,544,003

Budget

359,440,573

9,396,558

-

16,963,267

385,800,398

Expenditure

239,053,615

3,961,844

-

8,638,012

251,653,471

Budget

5,187,578
3,910,183
201,041,632
68,273,634
6,193,297
3,371,104
25,155,141
13,597,253
365,600,708
205,154,822
13,511,857
10,343,728

558,163
109,894
2,482,851
1,785,092
675,301
605,305
25,708,851
14,541,549
364,291
289,631

96,879,763
38,392,750
-

21,344,496
18,397,052
12,394,796
7,681,700
-

5,187,578
3,910,183
319,824,055
125,173,329
8,676,147
5,156,195
25,830,442
14,202,558
403,704,354
227,378,071
13,876,148
10,633,359

616,690,212
304,650,723

29,789,457
17,331,470

96,879,763
38,392,750

33,739,292
26,078,751

777,098,725
386,453,694

Budget
Expenditure

North America and the Caribbean

Budget
Expenditure

Latin America

Regional Bureau and activites for Europe

Budget

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Regional Bureau and activites for Asia and the Pacific

Budget
Expenditure

Central Asia

Budget
Expenditure

South Asia

Budget
Expenditure

South-East Asia

Budget
Expenditure

East Asia and the Pacific

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL EUROPE

Budget
Expenditure

34 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

IDP
projects

TOTAL

Expenditure

26,492,668
17,757,131
-

8,747,448
3,312,831
442,681,667
158,893,888
31,501,360
23,117,650
348,220,595
311,950,786

Budget

794,182,630

10,219,848

255,925

26,492,668

831,151,070

Expenditure

472,527,982

6,783,729

206,313

17,757,131

497,275,155

Expenditure

60,962,518
7,108,845
1,251,132,894
685,330,021
246,000,941
132,723,432

1,633,543
1,100,337
-

259,382,854
17,180,980
-

60,962,518
7,108,845
904,704,774 2,416,854,065
402,207,560 1,105,818,898
26,968,830
272,969,771
7,083,269
139,806,702

Budget

1,558,096,353

1,633,543

259,382,854

931,673,604 2,750,786,354

825,162,298

1,100,337

17,180,980

409,290,830 1,252,734,445

Budget

5,477,305,148

71,510,874

581,723,448 1,290,193,519 7,420,732,990

Expenditure

2,905,861,306

39,990,630

121,924,287

491,220,030
462,576,303
246,988,720
234,494,571

-

-

Budget

6,215,513,898

71,510,874

581,723,448 1,290,193,519 8,158,941,740

Expenditure

3,602,932,179

39,990,630

121,924,287

Budget
Budget
Budget

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Budget

Regional Bureau and activites for
the Middle East and North Africa

Expenditure

Middle East

Budget
Expenditure

North Africa

SUBTOTAL MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Budget

Expenditure

Budget
Expenditure

Headquarters

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL PROGRAMMED ACTIVITIES

641,665,808 3,709,442,031
-

491,220,030
462,576,303
246,988,720
234,494,571

641,665,808 4,406,512,904

Operational Reserve

Budget

459,384,981

-

-

-

459,384,981

New or additional activities- mandate-related
(NAM) Reserve

Budget

5,600,748

-

-

-

5,600,748

JPO

Budget

12,000,000
8,778,022

-

-

-

12,000,000
8,778,022

Budget

6,692,499,627

71,510,874

581,723,448 1,290,193,519 8,635,927,468

Expenditure

3,611,710,201

39,990,630

121,924,287

Expenditure
TOTAL

SUBTOTAL ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

PILLAR 4

Reintegration
projects

255,925
206,313

Expenditure
North, West and South Europe

Global Programmes
Expenditure

South-West Asia

PILLAR 3

Stateless
programme

194,616
18,847
2,486,602
1,828,422
4,793,174
2,937,377
2,745,456
1,999,084

Expenditure
South-Eastern Europe

SUBTOTAL FIELD
SUBTOTAL THE AMERICAS

PILLAR 2

Refugee
programme

8,552,833
3,293,984
413,702,397
139,308,336
26,708,186
20,180,273
345,219,214
309,745,390

Budget
Expenditure

180,592,744
134,266,057
1,398,660,091
640,231,951
469,560,282
223,024,052
100,082,262
66,944,628

Budget

PILLAR 1

EUROPE
TOTAL

AFRICA
West Africa

This chapter presents an overview of UNHCR’s
2019 requirements, income and expenditure.
More detailed information, including dedicated
dashboards showing budget and funding by
quarter linked to interactive donor profiles,
can be found on UNHCR’s main operational
reporting platform, Global Focus.

641,665,808 4,415,290,926

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 35

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

At its 69th session in October 2018, the
Executive Committee approved a revised
budget of $8.591 billion based on updated
assessed needs. The final budget of
$8.636 billion represents the sum of the
approved revised budget of $8.591 billion,
two supplementary budgets of
$107.4 million issued for new or worsening
crises in Cameroon ($35.4 million) and
the Venezuela situation ($72 million) and
a budget reduction of $62.6 million.
The final budget of $8.636 billion comprised
programmed activities of $8.159 billion
(including management and administration
costs at Headquarters, which were covered
in part by the United Nations Regular Budget
contribution); an operational reserve of
$459.4 million; the “new or additional
activities – mandate-related” reserve
of $5.6 million; and the $12 million fund
for Junior Professional Officers. When
compared with the final 2018 budget
of $8.220 billion, the final 2019 budget
increased $415.5 million or 5%.

CHART 1

| REVISED AND FINAL BUDGETS BY REGION AND PILLAR | 2019

The largest requirements under
Pillar 1 were in the Middle East
and North Africa region for Lebanon
($562 million) and Jordan ($372 million),
in Africa for Uganda ($386 million) and
Ethiopia ($311 million), in Asia and the
Pacific for Bangladesh ($308 million)
and in Europe for Turkey ($391 million)
and Greece ($272 million).

Final budget
$8.636 billion

Revised budget
$8.591 billion
Pillar 1

79% | $6.780 billion

Pillar 1

77% | $6.693 billion

Pillar 2

1% | $74 million

Pillar 2

1% | $71.5 million

Pillar 3

6% | $553 million

Pillar 3

7% | $581.7 million

Pillar 4

14% | $1.184 billion

Pillar 4

15% | $1.290 billion

The second largest component of
programmed activities was Pillar 4
(global IDP projects) at 15% of requirements.
Major operations were in the Middle East
and North Africa region, namely Iraq
($416 million) and the Syrian Arab Republic
(Syria) ($318 million).
Regionally, the largest requirements
were in the Middle East and North Africa
and the Africa regions, at $2.751 billion,
or 34%, and $2.676 billion, or 33%,
of requirements for programmed
activities respectively. This reflected the
continuing challenges of responding to
protracted and overlapping crises in
these two regions.

Revised budget
Final budget
PILLAR 1: REFUGEE PROGRAMME
2,500
 

PILLAR 2: STATELESS PROGRAMME
Millions

The Executive Committee, at its 68th session
in October 2017, approved an original
global needs-based budget for 2019 of
$7.352 billion.

Globally, Pillar 1 (global refugee programmes)
was the largest component of the budget
for programmed activities, at 77% of total
requirements.

Millions

2019 BUDGET

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

 
2,000
 

35
30
25

 
1,500

20

 
15

1,000
 

10

 
500

5

0

0

Africa

Middle East Asia and the
and
Pacific
North Africa

Europe

The Americas

Global Headquarters
Programmes

Africa

300

250

Europe

The Americas

Global Headquarters
Programmes

PILLAR 4: IDP PROJECTS

Millions

Millions

PILLAR 3: REINTEGRATION PROJECTS

Middle East Asia and the
and
Pacific
North Africa

1 000
, 

800

200
600
150
400
100
200

50

0

0
Africa

36 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Middle East Asia and the
and
Pacific
North Africa

Europe

The Americas

Global Headquarters
Programmes

Africa

Middle East Asia and the
and
Pacific
North Africa

Europe

The Americas

Global Headquarters
Programmes

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 37

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

2019 INCOME
CHART 2

CHART 3

| CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TOP TEN DONORS | 2019

| SOURCES OF INCOME | 2019
All other donors | 20% | $855.4 million

Governments
and the European Union
$3.660 billion

87%
Private donors
$421.7 million

UN pooled funding and
Intergovernmental donors
$91.8 million

10%

2% 1%

UN Regular Budget
$43.3 million

UNHCR raised $4.174 billion, a record
level. The assessed contribution of the
UN Regular Budget accounted for a further
$43.3 million, bringing total contributions
to $4.217 billion. Voluntary contributions
included $101 million acknowledged in
2019 for implementation in 2020 or beyond
and excluded $78.4 million acknowledged

38 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

in 2017 and 2018 for implementation in
2019. Write-offs of $1.3 million reduced
funds available. Overall, this meant UNHCR
had contributions of $4.193 billion available
against budgetary needs.
The United States of America was the
top donor to UNHCR, providing 41% of all
voluntary contributions for 2019. The top
three donors—the United States, the
European Union (EU) and Germany—provided
62% of all voluntary contributions received.
The top ten donors provided 80% of
voluntary contributions, an increase from
the 76% in 2018.
Since 2010, on average the top ten donors
have provided annually between 74-79%
of UNHCR’s voluntary contributions.
In the last ten years, UNHCR has benefited
from increased support from a few
donors—notably the United States,
the European Union, and Germany—while
seeing reductions from other top ten donors.
Notable increases came from the United
States ($117.1 million, 7% increase), the
United Kingdom ($23 million, 23%),
Qatar ($12 million, 139%), Denmark
($9.6 million, 12%), Japan ($6.4 million, 5%),
Ireland ($2.4 million, 15%), and Czechia
($2.2 million, 84%)

United States of America
41% | $1.707 billion
The Netherlands | 2% | $72.4 million
Denmark | 2% | $91.6 million
España con ACNUR | 2% | $92.4 million
Norway | 2% | $94.3 million

The top ten donors
provided $3.318 billion,
or 80% of all
voluntary contributions

Japan | 3% | $126.5 million
United Kingdom | 3% | $128.4 million
Sweden | 3% | $142.6 million
Germany | 9% | $390.5 million
European Union
11% | $473 million

In 2019, Gulf Cooperation Council
volatility had a major impact, with a
total reduction of $72.3 million from
the United Arab Emirates ($36 million,
93% reduction from 2018), Kuwait
($23.4 million, 54% reduction), and
Saudi Arabia ($13 million, 26% reduction).
Canada also reduced its support by
18% ($13 million).
There were also significant declines in
pooled funding, with contributions from
the CERF and country-based pooled funds
dropping $11.2 million (18%) and $9 million
(36%) respectively.

However, contributions from development
funding sources of $133.9 million
represented some 3% of voluntary
contribution in 2019, remaining an
important source of support to UNHCR.
In-kind contributions such as support
for premises, provision of standby partners
or supply of core relief items, came to
$31.7 million, including $12.6 million from
the private sector. This was an overall 12%
drop compared to 2018.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 39

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

Flexibility, timeliness and
predictability

CHART 5

At $1.257 billion, flexible funding—which
comprises unearmarked and softly
earmarked funding—represented 30%
of voluntary contributions. This was
$115.4 million less than 2018, when it
represented 33% of voluntary contributions.

Despite Grand Bargain commitments,
the trend of increased earmarking
continued, with a marked drop in softly
earmarked contributions and continued
increases in earmarking at the country level.

CHART 4

| TOP TEN SOURCES OF FLEXIBLE FUNDS | 2019

Sweden
15% | 99.8 million
All other donors
30% | $195.4 million

UNHCR received
$659.5 million
in unearmarked funding

| LEVELS OF EARMARKING | 2012 - 2019
Denmark
4% | $24.4 million

2019

16

14

45

Japan
4% | $25.7 million

25

The top ten donors of
unearmarked funding provided
$464.1 million, or 70%
of all unearmarked funds

Japan for UNHCR
4% | $28.7 million

2018

15

18

40

20

0%

10%

32

Germany
4% | $28.9 million

27

20%

Unearmarked

30%

40%

20

50%

Softly earmarked

60%
Earmarked

United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
7% | $44.6 million

Norway
7% | $44.5 million

Netherlands
7% | $43.1 million

Private donors in the
Republic of Korea | 6% | $41.8 million

2012

España con ACNUR
13% | $83 million

28

70%

80%

90%

Germany
12% | $72.5 million

100%

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe
4% $23.5 million

Tightly earmarked

Australia for UNHCR
3% $15 million

Unearmarked funding, which is contributed
without restrictions on its use, came to
$659.5 million. This was 7% increase on
2018’s levels and comprised 16% of all
voluntary contributions. Sweden continued
to be the largest unearmarked donor
($99.8 million); notably, these funds are
also predictable and multi-year. The
private sector provided 37% of UNHCR’s
unearmarked funding, on par with 2018
levels.

40 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Three private donors made the top-ten
donors of unearmarked funding: Espaňa con
ACNUR ($83 million), private donors in the
Republic of Korea ($41.8) and Japan for
UNHCR ($28.7 million).
Softly earmarked funding, which can be
used across a range of countries and
activities in a given region or situation,
came to $597.2 million. This was a 21%
drop compared to 2018, as the United States
adjusted its earmarking classifications.

United States of America
63% | $377.7 million

UNHCR received
$597.2 million in
softly earmarked funding
The top two donors
provided
$450.2 million, or 75% of all
softly earmarked funds

Sweden | 2% | $14.4 million
Denmark | 2% | $11.3 million
Finland | 1% | $8.3 million
Norway | 1% | $8.2 million
Japan | 1% | $8.1 million
Canada | 1% | $8.1 million

All other donors | 8% | $50.1 million

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 41

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

However, the United States also provided
UNHCR with a critical source of flexible
funding through contributions to the
Operational Reserve, with a record
$93 million in 2019. These funds allowed
UNHCR to meet critical needs in underfunded
operations around the world such as
Bangladesh, the Central African Republic
(CAR), the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC), Ecuador, Iraq, Niger, Nigeria,
Somalia, South Sudan, and Uganda.

CHART 6

On timeliness, more voluntary contributions
were received prior to the start of the year,
helping ensure continuity of services and
building in more predictability.
Even compared to 2018, availability of
funds within the first quarter showed a
marked increase in 2019.

28

15

19

UNHCR raised $422 million from private
donors, of which $242 million (57%) was
unearmarked and $71 million (17%) softly
earmarked. Around $305 million (72%)
was raised from individuals (4% growth
from 2018), and $117 million (28%) from
corporations, foundations and high-net-worth
individuals (9% decrease since 2018).

26

12

CHART 7

2018

24

13

18

Nevertheless, UNHCR reached more than
2.4 million donors, of whom 1.4 million
were regular donors providing monthly
support. Its global network of private sector
fundraising operations grew, with two new
National Partners in Argentina and the
United Kingdom. As part of its strategy
for diversification of income, UNHCR is
now present in more than 30 countries.
The largest private sector contributions came
from Europe ($186 million), followed by Asia
and the Pacific ($122 million), the Middle East
and North Africa ($61 million), the Americas
($52 million), and Africa ($391,000).

Income equaled that raised in 2018.
Growth stabilized in 2019 mainly because
of a divisive political environment which
translated into increased anti-refugee
sentiment; a shift in public interest from
refugee causes to climate action; and the
negative impact of exchange rates.

| TIMELINESS OF CONTRIBUTIONS | 2015 - 2019

2019

Private sector income

32

| PSP CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONOR NUMBERS | 2013-2019

13
450

3.0

400

18

13

38

17

14

2.1
million

350
300

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

1.5
million

100%
250

See Global
Focus situation
dashboards

Quarter 1

Multi-year funding is another measure of
flexibility and predictability for UNHCR
operations. It reduces the negative impact
of income fluctuations throughout the year
which can have knock-on effects across all
areas of UNHCR operations, from emergency
supply chains, staffing capabilities in the
field, and core operations. UNHCR was
able to draw from over $542 million in
multi-year funding in 2019.

42 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Quarter 2

Quarter 3

Other positive developments to note
included some donors reducing reporting
requirements in line with Grand Bargain
commitments. In particular, Germany
accepted situation level reports, which
were developed on Global Focus.

1.9
million

2.5

2.0

1.5

Quarter 4

200
Contributions | USD millions

1st January

1.6
million

2.4
million

1.0
million

150
100

1.0

0.8
million

0.5
50
0

0
2013

2014

2015
Contributions

2016

2017

2018

Number of donors | millions

2015

2019

Number of donors

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 43

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

In 2019, Qatari philanthropist H.E. Sheikh
Thani Bin Abdullah Bin Thani Al-Thani made
the largest ever gift from an individual donor
(see story below). The next two largest
private sector donors were Qatar Charity
with $10 million in support of the Rohingya,
Yemen and Iraq situations, and Japanese
fashion retailer UNIQLO with a $5 million
in-kind donation of clothing to displaced
people in 13 countries.
The increasingly crucial role of the private
sector in supporting refugees was
demonstrated at the Global Refugee Forum,
with over 100 companies and foundations
attending and more than 30 private
sector organizations such as Ingka Group,
Vodafone Foundation and LEGO Foundation

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

announcing pledges worth more than
$250 million.

Global campaigns continued to support
fundraising. The shelter campaign, Nobody
Left Outside, which started in 2016, was
UNHCR’s first global campaign to raise funds
from private donors for one thematic area.
The campaign ended in 2019, exceeding
its fundraising target of $25 million,
and raising $3.4 million in 2019.

Private donors provided timely support
to UNHCR’s response to refugee, natural
disaster and internal displacement
emergencies. Over $111.7 million was
raised in mostly softly earmarked funding.
Important donations were received for the
Rohingya refugee situation in Bangladesh
($30.6 million), Yemen ($24 million),
Syria ($17 million, including $2.5 million
for the escalation of violence in north-east
Syria in late 2019), the DRC ($8.3 million),
South Sudan ($8 million), Somalia
($6.6 million), the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela ($3.7 million) and Cyclone Idai
in Southern Africa ($1.8 million).

The Ramadan campaign continued to
grow, raising $3.8 million globally. UNHCR
also successfully beta tested a new mobile
application that enables refugees and
donors to communicate directly and
securely, as part of a fundraising campaign
to raise funds for cash assistance.

CHART 8

UNHCR launched the Refugee
Zakat Fund in 2019, a transparent
and effective distributor, harnessing
the power of zakat to transform the
lives of refugees and IDPs.
In 2019, $43 million in zakat was received, including
$35.2 million from the Thani Bin Abdullah Bin Thani
Al-Thani Humanitarian Fund, $4 million from Qatar
Charity, and $3.51 million from individuals through
the Fund’s digital platform.
Zakat supported more than 1 million beneficiaries in Yemen, Bangladesh, Egypt, Iraq,
Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, and Mauritania, and UNHCR aims to establish partnerships with
entities interested in expanding the impact of zakat by utilizing UNHCR’s distribution
network in hard-to-reach areas.

UNHCR’s Eminent Advocate supports displaced families through zakat
H.E. Sheikh Thani Bin Abdullah Bin Thani Al-Thani contributed $35.2 million in support of Rohingya
refugees in Bangladesh and displaced Yemenis in the form of zakat through UNHCR.
This was the largest contribution UNHCR has ever received from an individual donor and
the first major zakat contribution of its kind. Approximately one million Rohingya refugees
and Yemeni IDPs, returnees and members of host communities were supported through
this generous contribution.

44 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

© UNHCR/Susan Hopper

Islamic philanthropy in focus

UNHCR's National Partners
In times of rising xenophobia, the role of
the National Partners is more important
than ever before. In addition to funding
for UNHCR’s programmes, National
Partners engaged and mobilized individual
supporters, corporations and foundations
and raised awareness through their
extensive networks about what it means
to be forcibly displaced. Two new National
Partners were established in Argentina
and the United Kingdom, bringing
the number of committed supporters
worldwide to over 1.4 million.

| INCOME FROM NATIONAL PARTNERS | 2019

USA for UNHCR
15% | $33.9 million
130,877 individual donors

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe
12% | $27.6 million
193,336 individual donors

UK for UNHCR
Less than 1% | $410,000

Australia for UNHCR
7% | $16.2 million
88,022 individual donors

UNHCR’s National Partners
raised $223 million,
or 53% of all income from
the private sector.
National Partners raised
$151 million in unearmarked
funding, accounting for 62% of all
unearmarked funds raised by
the private sector.

España con ACNUR
(inc. $7.3 million from decentralized
authorities) 41% | $92.4 million
723,843 individual donors

Sweden for UNHCR
10% | $22.7 million
143,674 individual donors

Japan for UNHCR
13% | $29.8 million
158,993 individual donors

Fundación ACNUR Comité Argentino
Less than 1% | $34,440
6,835 individual donors

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 45

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

Australia for UNHCR | Mobilizing and
connecting corporates and leading women
in Australia with refugee women and girls,
Australia for UNHCR supported the Office’s
maternal health programmes in the DRC
for refugees from the CAR with its corporate
partner, Teachers Health. A high-level
women’s donor mission to Uganda raised
funds for local UNHCR programmes and
launched the Australia for UNHCR-funded
Vocational Training Centre in Kyaka2
refugee settlement. Leading up to the
Global Refugee Forum, its flagship World
Refugee Day breakfast with 500 attendees
highlighted how businesses can support
resettled refugees through employment,
training and mentoring. To empower
refugee voices, Australia for UNHCR
created a full tuition scholarship to give a
talented refugee storyteller the opportunity
to attend the Australian Film, Television
and Radio School.
España con ACNUR (Spain) | Fundraising
grew steadily due to a strong fundraising
programme with regular donors, corporations,
foundations and pioneering segments
such as major and legacy donors; and to
a communication and public engagement
strategy bringing together civil society,
boosting UNHCR’s brand and keeping the
refugee cause a top priority for Spanish
people. The “Loco de ACNUR” (Crazy
about UNHCR) brand campaign continued
with a fresh look and feel and a multi-year
development plan.

46 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

Fundación ACNUR Comité Argentino
(Argentina) | Inaugurated in 2019, the
Committee rolled out multiple donor
recruitment channels and launched its first
multichannel campaign “Crazy not to help”
for World Refugee Day. A live TV concert
was attended by some 2,000 people and
accompanied by street advertising and
telemarketing. Over 50 celebrities and
influencers supported the campaign, which
had a potential reach of 37 million people
with 5 million impressions. The Committee
recruited 6,700 donors, helped by a
successful end-of-year winterization
campaign, and received its first donation
from a high-net-worth individual
worth $14,000.
Japan for UNHCR | Achieving the milestone
of 104,709 monthly donors at year-end,
the number of newly-acquired monthly
donors grew by 57% compared to 2018.
One-off donations exceeded expectations
(37% over target), especially in reactivating
lapsed donors, growing the middle
donor programme (donors giving over
$1,000 annually), and cultivating legacy
gifting. Brand communication included
media coverage of key events such as the
lighting up in blue of 15 landmarks on
World Refugee Day and re-branding of the
film festival as UNHCR WILL2LIVE Cinema,
which was mentioned by 131 media outlets.

Sweden for UNHCR | Taking the opportunity
of its relationship with Roger Akelius (see
below), new ways of communicating with
donors and the general public were tested.
Income from other partnerships and
high-net-worth individuals surpassed
expectations, thanks to continued support

from the Swedish Postcode Lottery,
H&M Foundation, Lindex, IKEA Sweden
and The World We Want Foundation,
a new donor. In-house social media
content production increased and
surpassed targets (30 million views and
100,000 followers).

Sweden for UNHCR and Swedish
billionaire find each other via
newspaper ad
Each year, Swedish billionaire Roger Akelius
selects three humanitarian organizations for an end of
year "matching" campaign. In 2019, UNHCR was not one
of them. In response, Sweden for UNHCR published a
full-page advertisement in a Swedish newspaper which
read "Unfortunately, we were not one of the selected
organizations. But we happen to know that there are
190 other billionaires in Sweden". Mr. Akelius replied with an ad saying, "I already have three relationships.
But if you don't find a better partner, let me try". The light-hearted response resulted in Mr. Akelius matching
Sweden for UNHCR's 2019 Christmas campaign. The matching received extensive media attention and played
a key role in the outstanding increase of one-off income in late 2019—a 66% increase compared to 2018.

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (Germany) | Putting
strong emphasis on acquiring one-off and
regular donors, donations from individuals
increased thanks to extended programmes
to retain donors and multi-channel donor
communications. For regular donors, a
welcome cycle (including the innovative
refugee story series “Between Lives”) was
implemented and steps taken to build a
personalized donor engagement strategy.
Successful mailing appeals were combined
with several telemarketing campaigns to
convert existing one-off donors into regular
supporters. Campaigns to reactivate lapsed
donors showed very promising results.
Strong progress was also made in terms
of legacy fundraising.

USA for UNHCR | Realizing growth
among its most valuable donor segments and
enhancing engagement on many fronts, both
gift value and retention improved among
its most loyal donors (43,732 individuals
who have given for two or more years
consecutively), each of whom donated over
$348 monthly. Efforts to maintain strategic
partnerships led to $3.3 million in funding
from Latter-Day Saints Charities, and
ongoing financial and in-kind support
from Microsoft, UPS Foundation, Google,
Nike and others. USA for UNHCR drove
awareness and engagement with
compelling content, and its social media
engagement rate was 3.3% with nearly
1.6 million visits to its website.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 47

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

2019 EXPENDITURE
Total funds available to UNHCR came to
$4.826 billion, including contributions of
$4.193 billion, carry-over of $484.1 million,
and $149 million from other income
and adjustments.
Expenditure totaled $4.415 billion,
an increase of $189 million or 4% in
comparison with 2018, and with an
implementation rate (expenditure over
total funds available) of 91%.
Expenditure under Pillar 1 (global refugee
programmes) increased by approximately
$137.4 million or 4% compared to 2018
and, at 82% of total expenditure, continued
to account for the overwhelming majority
of UNHCR expenditure.

Pillar 2 (global stateless programme)
increased by $2 million or 5%, or
approximately 1% of total expenditure;
approximately 33% of the expenditure for
statelessness programmes was associated
to the operation in Myanmar.
Expenditure for Pillar 3 (global reintegration
projects) increased by nearly $2 million
or 1% and accounted for 3% of total
expenditure. The largest reintegration
projects were in Afghanistan, Somalia,
and Syria.
Pillar 4 (global IDP projects) increased
by $47.8 million or 8% compared to 2018
and accounted for 15% of total expenditure.
Major IDP projects were in the Middle East
and North Africa—in Syria, Iraq and
Yemen—followed by Africa—in the DRC,
Somalia and South Sudan.

| EXPENDITURE BY REGION AND BY PILLAR | per cent

CHART 9

CHART 10

CHART 9 | EXPENDITURE BY REGION AND PILLAR | USD millions

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

CHART 9increased
| EXPENDITURE
BY REGION
AND PILLAR
USD encountered
millions
In Africa, expenditure
by
In Ethiopia,
delays |were
in
$17.2 million or 1% compared to 2018. Major
the approval of Eritrean refuges. Chad
increases were in the DRC, followed by
being a CRRF country, resources available
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda and Burkina Faso.
from partners such as the World Bank and
In the DRC, the increase was in response
the European Union meant UNHCR was
Pillar 1
to increased conflict-induced displacement
able to reduce some budgeted activities.
in North Kivu and Ituri Provinces. The
Expenditure in the Middle East and
increases in Niger, Nigeria and Burkina Faso
North Africa remained relatively stable,
Pillar 2
were also for conflict-induced displacement
decreasing slightly by $2.3 million (0.2%)
in the Sahel, while for Rwanda, the increase
mainly in Iraq, Jordan and Syria. In Iraq
was mainly attributable to the launch of
and Syria, the decreases were mainly
Pillar 3
an Emergency Transit Mechanism.
due to challenges in reaching people of
The increases were partially offset by
concern due to the situation in north and
decreases
in 4Uganda, followed by Ethiopia
north-eastern Syria. The decreases were
Pillar
and Chad. In Uganda the decrease was
partially offset by an increase in Lebanon
attributable to the reduced budget
for provision of cash assistance and
Africa
Middle
East and North to
Africa
following the revision downwards of
winterization
extremelyEurope
vulnerable
Global
Programmes
Asia
and
the
Pacific
Thesituation.
Americas
population planning figures for refugees
households under the Syria
from Burundi, theHeadquarters
DRC and South Sudan.

| EXPENDITURE BY REGION AND BY PILLAR | USD millions

100%

0

200

400

600

800

1,000
 

1,200

1,400
 

Africa

Pillar 1

Middle East and North Africa
Pillar 2

Europe
Global Programmes

Pillar 3
Asia and the Pacific
The Americas

Pillar 4

Headquarters
Africa

Middle East and North Africa

Europe

Global Programmes

Asia and the Pacific

The Americas

Pillar 1

Pillar 2

Pillar 3

Pillar 4

Headquarters

48 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 49

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

In Asia and the Pacific, expenditure
increased by $17.3 million or 5%, with major
increases for the Myanmar situation for
expansion in the provision of water and
sanitation, registration, core relief items,
education and staffing, and peaceful
coexistence projects. The increases were
partly offset by decreases in Indonesia
under resettlement, shelter and peaceful
coexistence.
Expenditure in the Americas increased
by nearly $118 million or 88% to respond
to the Venezuela and North of Central
America situations. The major increases
were in the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil
for the Venezuela situation; and in Mexico,
Costa Rica and Panama for the North of
Central America situation.
Lastly, expenditure in Europe increased
by $11.8 million or 2%. The main increase
was in Greece due to the growing number
of refugees arriving from Syria requiring
assistance and protection.

Expenditure for global programmes.
This increased by $27 million, or 6%,
with the main increases in the Division
of External Relations (activities under
Private Sector Partnerships), in the Division
of Resilience and Solutions (activities under
the Global Compact on Refugees) and
in Executive Direction and Management
(additional resources for risk management,
evaluation, and initiatives to curb sexual
exploitation and abuse and sexual
harassment). The increases were partly
offset by decreases related to restructuring
the Division of Programme Support
and Management and the impact of
decentralization and regionalization on
the Division of Information Systems and
Telecommunications.
Headquarters expenditure remained
stable compared to 2018 with a slight
decrease of $0.6 million or 0.2%.
As was the case in 2018, this represented
5% of overall expenditure.

| EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES
AND HEADQUARTERS | 2015-2019

TABLE 2

| 2019 EXPENDITURE BY SOURCE OF FUNDING | USD thousands
SOURCE OF FUNDING
Carry-over from prior years
Earmarked

Unearmarked

Voluntary cash contributions
Earmarked

Softly
earmarked1

Voluntary
in-kind
Unearmarked contributions

Programme
support
costs

United
Nations
Regular
Budget

Other
income2

TOTAL

FIELD OPERATIONS

Europe

91,197
14,580
27,694
32,560

50,002
6,813
6,965
7,350

693,218
130,673
248,141
366,202

250,051
56,470
66,633
28,076

163,007
22,522
29,202
54,966

6,972
1,020
270
1,519

17,644
3,479
3,960
1,940

49,234 1,321,325
16,096
251,654
3,590
386,454
4,664
497,275

Middle East and North
Africa

52,975

7,134

1,045,467

84,246

35,132

864

2,304

24,612 1,252,734

219,006

78,263

2,483,700

485,475

304,829

10,646

29,327

-

9,755
20

65,776

47,554
509

42,804

220,302

11,601
9,496

178,744

43,328

Africa
The Americas
Asia and the Pacific

TOTAL FIELD
OPERATIONS
Global Programmes
Headquarters
Operational Reserve and
new or additional activities
- mandate-related reserve

TOTAL

64,784
2,398

462,576
234,495
-

Junior Professional Officers
Fund

%

98,196 3,709,442

8,778
228,782
5%

144,039
3%

2,540,541
58%

8,778
528,279
12%

525,131
12%

31,742
1%

208,072
5%

43,328
1%

165,378 4,415,291
4%
100%

Notes:
1 Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.
2 Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.

USD MILLIONS

CHART 11

463

500

436
450

366

400

338
350
300

266

250
200

213

222

231

235

234

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

150

Global Programmes

50 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Table 2 displays how UNHCR used its
various sources of income to cover its
expenditure, and usefully highlights how
the unearmarked funding was allocated.
Unearmarked income was allocated
throughout the year in line with identified
priorities and needs, and according to
the overall objectives of kickstarting
emergency operations; bolstering
underfunded operations; and enabling
programmes to implement fully.
UNHCR raised $208 million in programme
support costs, with $178 million or 86%

spent on Headquarters. The resulting
surplus of $29.3 million was allocated
to the five regional bureaux.
Earmarked voluntary contributions funded
58% of UNHCR operations in 2019,
while unearmarked and softly earmarked
contributions each funded 12%. The largest
expenditures funded from earmarked
voluntary contributions were in the
Middle East and North Africa, followed by
Africa and Europe at 41%, 27% and 14%
respectively.

Headquarters

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 51

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

This table shows all contributions coming from all sources, including from governments and the private sector in
countries supporting UNHCR’s work, and from inter-governmental and pooled funding mechanism. As such, it is
a way of reflecting the financial support to UNHCR from the “whole-of-society” approach. A traditional donor
ranking is available from the Global Focus website using the QR code opposite.

Monaco
Liechtenstein

666,438
403,226

68,534
220,200
516,206

United Nations Office for Project Services
Estonia

477,547
393,889

UNDP

TABLE 3

Singapore

| TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS | 2019

DONOR
United States of America

GOVERNMENT

1,706,832,053

PRIVATE DONORS

Japan
Sweden
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Spain1
Norway
Denmark
Netherlands
Republic of Korea
Italy
Qatar
Canada

Switzerland

Saudi Arabia
Finland
Kuwait
Belgium
Ireland

390,479,234
126,466,093
142,556,147

27,601,051
36,522,777
19,442,156

122,408,890

6,382,725

128,791,615

11,685,890
94,345,776
91,641,152
72,362,386
25,850,008
47,331,349
20,535,000
59,732,515

92,407,654
2,668,000
728,735
9,471,472
47,369,647
22,318,676
48,012,940
8,370,524

28,652,493
41,688,356

16,418,500
2,945,981

104,093,544
97,013,776
92,369,887
81,833,858
73,219,655
69,650,025
68,547,940
68,103,039
48,829,890
45,070,993
44,634,337
43,306,822
42,189,583
38,980,826
22,500,245
22,093,579
22,051,927
18,106,548
16,186,789
13,592,321
10,473,066
7,663,524
6,715,573
6,463,383
4,826,684
3,998,671
3,363,485
3,324,676
3,209,929
2,962,407
2,739,448
2,717,326
2,677,400
2,397,390

48,829,890

43,306,822
40,652,187
37,014,001
22,500,245
20,115,400
22,034,357
18,105,393

1,537,396
1,966,825

1,924,229
10,361,584
2,812,175
6,715,573
20,000
4,826,684
3,956,389

11,668,092
111,483
4,851,349

1,978,179
17,570
1,155
16,186,789

Country-based pooled funds3
China
Luxembourg
United Arab Emirates
New Zealand
Thailand
Czechia
Austria

6,443,383
42,283
3,363,485

Education Cannot Wait4
Hungary

3,324,676

Bahamas
Brazil

1,089,574

3,209,929
1,872,832
2,739,448

European Economic Area

2,717,326
2,677,400

IOM
UNAIDS

2,397,390

Lebanon
United Nations-African Union Hybrid Operation
in Darfur
UN-Habitat
WFP
Russian Federation

10,000

1,038,823

Egypt
Iceland
Sudan
Poland

52 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

875,303
854,107
850,523

Portugal

1,586,396
1,559,623
1,204,501
1,115,074
1,038,823
1,037,477
939,816
875,303
854,107
850,523

38,166
18
294,329
262,765

261,549
259,176
236,968

FAO
Kenya
United Nations Post-Conflict Multi-Partner
Trust Fund for Colombia8
Kazakhstan

208,098
163,602

Peru
Serbia
Angola
South Africa
Nigeria

Romania

129,933
120,942
120,000
19,481
63,735

99,647
49,872
108,070

106,323
103,521
100,000

African Union
Algeria
Armenia
Montenegro
Lithuania
Indonesia
Azerbaijan
Slovenia
Bulgaria
Equatorial Guinea
Kyrgyz Republic
Latvia

100,000
98,000
94,122
89,685
60,000
67,200
57,405
55,000
50,000
47,520
38,504

17,537

37,998

India

33,294

WHO
Botswana
Uruguay

30,472
30,000
29,182

Fund to End Violence Against Children10
Morocco
Andorra
Islamic Republic of Pakistan
Cyprus
Guyana
Sri Lanka

25,184
22,321
20,000
16,502
15,883
15,000
14,475
14,000
12,901

Organisation of Islamic Cooperation

11,991

Senegal
Slovakia

11,481
9,173

UN Women

7,286

Ghana

TOTAL*

150,931
139,489
129,933
120,942
120,000
119,128
113,607
108,070
106,323
103,521
100,000
100,000
98,000
94,122
89,685
77,537
67,200
57,405
55,000
50,000
47,520
38,504
37,998
33,294
30,472
30,000
29,182
25,184
22,321
20,000
16,502
15,883
15,000
14,475
14,000
12,901
11,991
11,481
9,173
7,286

139,489

UNESCO
Colombia

163,602

150,931

One UN Fund9

Zimbabwe

1,115,074
987,477
939,816

Isle of Man

2,209,438
2,107,476
2,000,000
1,833,778
1,669,071

1,204,501

50,000

Oman

2,209,438
2,107,476

1,586,396

United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security7
Mexico

330,488
326,537

310,140
267,100
300,000

Greece

Costa Rica

1,559,623

Intergovernmental Authority on Development

Turkey

2,352,163

1,833,778
1,659,071

United Nations Peacebuilding Fund6

Argentina

2,352,163

2,000,000

Malaysia
Philippines
Spotlight Initiative to eliminate violence
against women and girls5
African Development Bank

TOTAL

1,744,648,355
473,024,447
418,080,285
162,988,870
161,998,303

United Nations Regular Budget
France

UN FUNDS

473,024,447

Central Emergency Response Fund2
Australia

Malta

37,816,302

European Union
Germany

60,000

UNICEF
INTER-GOVERNMENTAL
BODIES

734,972
623,426
516,206
477,547
393,889
390,488
326,537
310,140
305,266
300,018
294,329
262,765
261,549
259,176
236,968
208,098

3,187,438,540

421,656,075

478,551,492

129,536,919

4,217,183,026

1 The total for Spain includes $7,326,160 in contributions from other public sources channelled through España con ACNUR.
2 The Central Emergency Response Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see www.unocha.org/cerf/donors/donorspage.
3 Country-based pooled funds are multi-donor funding mechanisms. For details, see www.unocha.org/ourwork/humanitarian-financing/country-based-pooled-funds-cbpfs.
4 Education Cannot Wait is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details see, www.educationcannotwait.org.
5 The Spotlight Initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see www.un.org/en/spotlight-initiative.
6 The United Nations Peacebuilding Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see www.unpbf.org.
7 The United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see https://www.un.org/humansecurity.
8 The United Nations Post-Conflict Multi-Partner Trust Fund for Colombia is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see http://mptf.undp.org.
9 The One UN Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see http:mptf.undp.org.
10 The Fund to End Violence Against Children is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see www.end-violence.org.
* Excludes $78,385,157 acknowledged in 2017 and 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and includes $101,039,639 acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 53

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 4

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS | 2019

TABLE 4

| IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS | 2019

USD
DONOR

DESCRIPTION

AMOUNT

GOVERNMENTS AND UN FUNDS
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Botswana
Brazil
Canada
China
Czechia
Denmark
Germany
Guyana
Hungary
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Kuwait
Kyrgyz Republic
Luxembourg
Montenegro
Morocco
Nigeria
Poland
Romania
Serbia
South Africa
Spain
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland

United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
UNDP

SUBTOTAL

54 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

USD
DONOR

DESCRIPTION

AMOUNT

PRIVATE DONORS
Premises for the UNHCR office in Luanda
Premises for the UNHCR office in Buenos Aires
Premises for the UNHCR office in Yerevan
Premises for the UNHCR office in Vienna
Premises for the UNHCR warehouse in Baku
Premises for the UNHCR office in Gabarone
Premises for the UNHCR office in Brasilia
Deployment of standby experts for UNHCR Global Programmes
Premises for the UNHCR office in Hong Kong SAR (China)
Premises for the UNHCR office in Prague
Premises for the UNHCR office in Copenhagen
Premises for the UNHCR office in Nuremberg
Premises for the UNHCR office in Georgetown
Premises for the UNHCR office in Budapest:
Global Service Centre and Regional Representation for Central Europe
Deployment of standby experts through Irish Aid
Premises for the UNHCR office in Rome
Premises for the UNHCR office in Almaty
Premises for the UNHCR office in Kuwait City
Premises for the UNHCR office in Bishkek
Premises for the UNHCR office at the University of Luxembourg
Premises for the UNHCR office in Podgorica
Premises for the UNHCR office in Laayoune, Western Sahara
Premises for the UNHCR office in Lagos
Premises for the UNHCR office in Warsaw
Premises for the UNHCR office in Bucharest
Premises for the UNHCR office in Belgrade
Premises for the UNHCR office in Pretoria
Premises for the UNHCR office in Madrid
Mosquito nets for the UNHCR operation in Sudan
Deployment of standby experts by Swedish Rescue Services (MSB) to various UNHCR
operations
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations and premises for UNHCR
Headquarters in Geneva due to Switzerland’s host-state policy that provides excellent
conditions for international organizations to work effectively
Premises for the UNHCR warehouse in Dubai provided through the International Humanitarian
City and transportation services to the UNHCR operations in Albania and Zimbabwe
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Mosquito nets for the UNHCR operation in Chad

120,000
107,100
98,000
57,471
7,200
30,472
20,341
156,917
90,034
38,100
2,540,701
27,127
15,883

Autodesk Foundation

3,324,676

TOMS Shoes LLC

155,000
98,172
50,931
39,490
47,520
10,274
82,745
25,184
63,735
87,000
103,521
115,942
19,481
366,038
441,032

Avanti Communications Group
Danish Refugee Council
Fast Retailing (UNIQLO)

Fuji Optical Co Limited
Hope Health Action
HUGO BOSS
iMMAP
Microsoft Corporation
Norwegian Refugee Council
RedR
Rituals Cosmetics Enterprise
Unilever (UK)
UPS Corporate
War Child Holland
WeWork

SUBTOTAL
TOTAL

Computer software for the Division of Resilience and Solutions
Telecommunications equipment for the UNHCR operation in Uganda
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
New and used clothing for UNHCR operations in Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Botswana,
Burkina Faso, Chad, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, India, Lebanon, Malawi,
Mauritania and Uganda
Optical package to the UNHCR operation in Azerbaijan
Supplementary food to the UNHCR operation in Uganda
Donation of new winter clothing for the UNHCR operation in Ecuador
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Laptops and software to the UNHCR operation in Kenya
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Deployment of experts by RedR Australia to various UNHCR operations
New clothing and accessories for the UNHCR operation in Ecuador
Shoes for the UNHCR operations in Burkina Faso and Uganda
Soap for the UNHCR operation in Lebanon
Transportation services to the UNHCR operations in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela,
Malawi, Nigeria and Somalia
Information technology equipment for the UNHCR operation in Chad
Office premises for the Division of External Relations

1,115,700
93,740
639,500

5,143,651
221,616
87,920
31,220
151,500
32,194
2,668,000
200,500
789,967
446,511
31,250
900,000
54,268
64,922
12,672,458
31,741,539

930,500

6,385,459
2,612,175
538,000
262,861
19,069,081

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 55

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 5

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| PRIVATE DONORS OVER $100,000 IN SUPPORT OF UNHCR | 2019
TABLE 6

UNHCR GLOBAL

EUROPE

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR HEADQUARTERS | USD

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

Agência Brasileira de Cooperaçâo

FRANCE

EGYPT

Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation

Fondation BNP Paribas

Mansour Abd El Meguid Amer

Educate A Child Programme (EAC) Programme
- Education Above All (EAA) Foundation

GERMANY / UNO-FLŰCHTLINGSHILFE

KUWAIT

Executive Office

AmazonSmile

Alghanim Industries

Liaison Office New York

ITALY

Mabarrat Ghanaem Al Khair (MGAK)

Inspector General's Office

IKEA Foundation
NPT (UK) Ltd.

Intesa Sanpaolo

Zain Telecommunications Group

The JMCMRJ Sorrell Foundation

Fondazione Milan Onlus

QATAR

Ethics Office

United Nations Foundation

Fondazione Prosolidar-Onlus

Qatar Charity

Enterprise Risk Management

UN Fund for International Partnerships

LUXEMBOURG

Silatech

United Nations Foundation

Fondation de Luxembourg

Thani Bin Abdullah Humanitarian Fund

Governance Service

NETHERLANDS

SAUDI ARABIA

SUBTOTAL

Dutch Postcode Lottery (NPL)

Athmar Holding (AH)

CANADA

Rituals Cosmetics Enterprise BV

Tamer Family Foundation

Morneau Shepell

SPAIN / ESPAŇA CON ACNUR

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

Donor Relations and Resource Mobilization Service

Mr. & Mrs. Martin & Brenda Gibson

"la Caixa" Banking Foundation

Al Tayer Insignia

Private Sector Partnership Service

NASIMCO

Equatorial Coca-Cola Bottling Company

Careem Networks

MEXICO

Laboratorios Vinas

Falcon Trading Group

Partnership and Coordination Service

Nacional Monte Piedad, I.A.P.

SWEDEN / SWEDEN for UNHCR

The Big Heart Foundation

Digital Engagement

USA / USA FOR UNHCR

Akelius Foundation

Autodesk Foundation

H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB

Global Environment & Technology Foundation

Swedish Postcode Lottery

Google

The Einar Belvén Foundation

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION

iMMAP

The World We Want Foundation

Office of the Director

Fast Retailing Co. Ltd. (UNIQLO)

THE AMERICAS

Kuwait-America Foundation

SWITZERLAND

Legal Affairs Section
Office of the Ombudsman

Evaluation Service
Change Management

Office of the Director

Global Communications Service
Records and Archives Section

Public Outreach and Campaigns
Joint UN Activity Contributions
SUBTOTAL

Specialized sections

CorPa Treuhand AG
Fondation Sesam

TOMS Shoes LLC

Krueger Foundation

Office of the Director

UPS Corporate

Üsine Foundation

Specialized sections

UNITED KINGDOM

SUBTOTAL

Allen & Overy LLP
Asfari Foundation

Shih Wing Ching Foundation

Bloomsbury Publishing

JAPAN / JAPAN FOR UNHCR

Said Foundation

Fuji Optical Co Limited

MALAYSIA
Maybank Islamic Berhad

THAILAND

The Hands Up Foundation

5,542,460
4,851,811
12,165,770
5,240,618
552,246
3,595,825
1,229,032
2,335,613
3,457,355
2,667,303

5,452,163
4,851,811
11,569,746
4,604,456
513,060
2,987,273
1,190,763
2,043,541
2,628,909
2,481,519

41,638,033

38,323,240

2,395,268
7,458,929
1,284,412
5,352,196
1,925,780
2,252,293
361,781
1,660,557
2,539,000

2,395,268
7,400,524
1,199,937
5,281,596
1,901,795
2,240,257
361,781
1,607,545
2,478,788

25,230,216

24,867,492

2,523,876
12,358,326

2,505,538
12,302,331

14,882,202

14,807,868

2,634,037
1,406,320

2,333,199
805,397

4,040,357

3,138,596

2,989,410
6,916,729

2,628,767
4,965,075

9,906,140

7,593,842

2,032,188

2,023,450

2,032,188

2,023,450

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS

The Church of Latter-day Saints

HONG KONG SAR

Expenditure1

EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT

Microsoft Corporation

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Budget1

SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF RESILIENCE AND SOLUTIONS

DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT AND MANAGEMENT
Office of the Director
Specialized sections
SUBTOTAL

Unilever Gulf FZE
Vodafone Foundation

DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY
Office of the Director
SUBTOTAL

Mr. Wanchai Tachavejnukul
Vimuttayalaya Institute

56 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 57

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 6

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR HEADQUARTERS | USD

TABLE 7

| CONTRIBUTIONS TO HEADQUARTERS | USD

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

Budget1

Expenditure1

HEADQUARTERS OVERALL

REGIONAL BUREAUX
Office of the Director for Africa
Office of the Director for the Middle East and North Africa
Special Envoy for the Central Mediterrean Situation
Office of the Director for Asia and the Pacific
Office of the Director for Europe
Office of the Director for the Americas
SUBTOTAL

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

10,602,057
6,410,159
225,902
5,295,105
6,522,968
4,923,458

10,554,635
5,595,221
202,727
5,136,022
4,689,408
3,803,143

33,979,647

29,981,155

7,055,680
17,749,409

7,022,752
17,721,314

Infrastructure and Telecommunications Service
SUBTOTAL

Specialized sections
SUBTOTAL

24,805,089

24,744,066

3,573,559
12,122,002

3,544,069
11,653,781

15,695,561

15,197,851

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
Office of the Controller and Director
Specialized sections and services
Audit
UN Finance Division
Headquarters running costs (including security and safety at Headquarters)
SUBTOTAL

DONORS

Refugee
programme

United Nations Regular Budget

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND
ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

Switzerland

EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND
MANAGEMENT

Hungary
Denmark
United States of America
European Union

SUBTOTAL

SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Office of the Director

PILLAR 1

SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Office of the Director

DONOR

6,403,442
5,954,911
789,052
1,150,000
18,052,462

5,868,379
5,917,307
789,052
1,150,000
17,963,367

32,349,867

31,688,105

4,190,848
138,792
3,448,789
19,755,345
2,835,679
6,121,688

4,150,158
119,138
3,348,410
19,646,634
2,827,640
6,115,378

36,491,141

36,207,357

4,970,743

4,962,214

4,970,743
967,537

4,962,214
959,335

246,988,720

234,494,571

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS

Japan
Germany
SUBTOTAL

REGIONAL BUREAUX

European Union
SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT
AND MANAGEMENT

Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
SUBTOTAL

TOTAL*

ALL PILLARS

TOTAL

43,306,822
43,306,822

43,306,822
43,306,822

3,892,459
3,892,459

3,892,459
3,892,459
3,062,343
2,540,701

176,725
16,722
193,447

5,603,044
180,603

128,400
128,400

180,603

3,062,343
2,540,701
176,725
16,722
5,796,491
180,603
128,400
309,003

157,826
157,826

157,826
157,826

10,695
10,695

10,695
10,695

47,689,649

5,783,647

53,473,296

*Notes:
1
Contributions include 7% programme support costs.	
2
Includes $176,725 million acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019.	

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTRE (BUDAPEST)
Management unit
Ombudsman office
Division of Financial and Administrative Management
Division of Human Resources
Division of Information Systems and Telecommunications
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply
SUBTOTAL

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTRE (COPENHAGEN)
Management Unit
SUBTOTAL
Staff Council

TOTAL
1

Includes allocations from the UN Regular Budget as follows: $43,306,822 (Budget) and $43,327,815 (Expenditure). The excess UN Regular Budget expenditure in 2019 is covered by the carry-over
allotment from 2018 of $42,949.		

58 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 59

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 8

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

TABLE 8

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
ACTIVITIES

Budget

Expenditure

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Cash-based interventions
Durable solutions
Education-related projects
Emergency-related projects (including stockpiles)
Environment-related projects
Health-related projects (including HIV/AIDS, anaemia, water & sanitation)
Innovation project
Protection-related projects
Private sector fundraising
Public information and media projects
Refugee women, children and adolescents
Registration, data and knowledge management
Research, evaluation and documentation
Resettlement
Shelter-related projects
Training-related projects
Miscellaneous
SUBTOTAL OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
ACTIVITIES

Budget

Expenditure

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES
999,784
5,600,415
25,221,584
47,388,829
620,000
3,486,320
2,932,873
6,221,126
129,350,107
9,400,648
976,811
6,467,896
4,200,000
12,017,334
23,846,876
1,417,732
904,800

662,849
4,520,240
24,143,069
43,165,337
444,842
3,433,427
2,042,623
5,503,696
124,174,700
8,515,736
945,741
6,608,036
3,040,406
11,306,233
22,105,395
1,329,513
852,582

281,053,135

262,794,426

2,072,669
2,135,637
1,103,199
2,594,310

1,783,463
1,771,937
920,700
2,511,284

9,209,205
16,548,930
5,922,078
28,893,923
13,457,078
9,811,898

6,105,956
15,909,726
4,835,897
28,845,444
11,488,386
9,490,865

4,999,181
11,842,124
22,273,465

4,999,059
11,834,488
21,841,919

Special staff costs
Training of UNHCR staff

39,401,948
10,074,077

38,896,541
9,738,386

4,973,475
711,352

4,952,782
711,352

1,749,255

1,749,255

1,167,457
10,251,330
1,768,058
9,206,245

1,167,318
9,876,277
1,768,058
8,582,785

210,166,896

199,781,877

491,220,030

462,576,303

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
Audit IPMS
Business Innovation Group

BUDAPEST GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply

COPENHAGEN GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER
Division of International Protection
Division of Programe Support Management
Division of Information Systems and Telecommunications
Division of External Relations
SUBTOTAL PROGRAMME SUPPORT ACTIVITIES

TOTAL

PROGRAMME SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT
Innovation project
Inspector General's Office field activities
Lega Affairs Section field activities
Risk Management 2.0

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Division of External Relations Service
Private sector fund raising - investment funds and activities

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
DIVISION OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION OF RESILIENCE AND SOLUTIONS
DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT MANAGEMENT
DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY
Emergency Capacity Management Section
Field Safety Section and - field security support
Supply Management - field strenghtening and support

60 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 61

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 9

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

DONOR

PILLAR 1

DONORS

Refugee
programme

ALL PILLARS

TABLE 9

TOTAL

Global Protection Cluster

Danish Refugee Council
iMMAP
Ireland
Norwegian Refugee Council
RedR Australia
Sweden
Switzerland
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Luxembourg
United Arab Emirates
UPS Corporate
UPS Corporate
United States of America

UNHCR e-Centre

Japan

Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Emergency preparedness and response
Emergency preparedness and response
Emergency preparedness and response
Global fleet management

SUBTOTAL

639,500
151,500
155,000
2,143,625
200,500
930,500
1,818,500

53,875

639,500
151,500
155,000
2,197,500
200,500
930,500
1,818,500

Nansen Refugee Award
Nansen Refugee Award
Private Sector Partnerships
Private Sector Partnerships
Private Sector Partnerships
Private Sector Partnerships
Olympic 2020
Urban outreach: Telling the Real Story 2.0 project

Global Protection Cluster
Global Protection Cluster
Global Protection Cluster
Global Protection Cluster
High-level meeting on statelessness
and related activities
Partnership Jobs and education project
Prevention of detention of children

538,000

538,000

313,808
2,109,175
311,570
107,000
160,500

313,808
2,109,175
311,570
107,000
160,500

9,579,178

392,605

392,605

446,480

10,025,658

Quality protection partnership
and asylum capacity support project
Resettlement case law
Safe from the Start project

IKEA Foundation
Norway
Switzerland
China
IKEA Foundation
IOM
WeWork
Japan
European Union
SUBTOTAL

100,000
165,216
218,484
82,832
134,983
56,710
64,922
225,754
2,154,030
2,829,423

373,508

100,000
165,216
218,484
82,832
134,983
56,710
64,922
225,754
2,154,030
3,202,930

Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
Global Protection Cluster
High-level meeting on statelessness
and related activities
HIV/AIDS
Improved plastic latrine slab design project
Improving nutritional conditions
Improving nutritional conditions
Joint IDP Profiling Service
Joint IDP Profiling Service
Mental health and psychological support project
Refugee Housing Units

Emergency preparedness supply training
Emerging Resettlement Countries
Joint Support Mechanism

UPS Corporate

Protection in Conflict project

IOM
Germany

Safe from the Start project

30,510

30,510

SUBTOTAL

383,907
16,050
62,046
492,513

383,907
16,050
62,046
492,513

Monaco
Switzerland

22,753
280,500

22,753
280,500

IOM

677,932

677,932

Canada
Germany
Norway
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland

156,917
555,554
944,223

156,917
555,554
944,223

4,270,370

4,270,370

United States of America

PILLAR 1

DONORS

Refugee
programme

United States of America
Germany
Norwegian Refugee Council
Switzerland
United States of America

ALL PILLARS

TOTAL

2,000,000
46,805
319,000
308,960
981,190

2,000,000
46,805
319,000
308,960
981,190

Germany

192,890

192,890

Netherlands
European Union
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland
Allen & Overy LLP
United States of America

372,360
74,215

372,360
74,215

250,983

250,983

32,342
4,176,466
15,663,460

32,342
4,176,466
15,663,460

Norwegian Refugee Council
Switzerland
IKEA Foundation
United States of America

151,500
394,000
87,931
32,100

151,500
394,000
87,931
32,100

Germany

160,500

160,500

2,000,000
114,815
200,000
4,449

2,000,000
114,815
200,000
4,449
228,441
107,000
33,294
1,605,000
55,006
107,000
259,358
1,115,700
31,712
70,602
6,758,408

DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT AND MANAGEMENT

Partnership jobs and education project

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES

DONOR

SUBTOTAL

Energy and environment

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Nansen Refugee Award

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS
Enhancing resettlement activities

DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY
Deployment of standby experts

| VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

Safe from the Start project
Saving newborn lives project
Shelter and settlement
Tuberculosis interventions
Waste-to-water project

UNAIDS
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
"la Caixa" Banking Foundation
Laboratorios Viñas
Norway
United States of America
WHO
Netherlands
Nando Peretti Foundation
United States of America
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Autodesk Foundation
UNDP
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
SUBTOTAL

228,441
107,000
33,294
1,605,000
55,006
107,000
259,358
1,115,700
31,712
70,602
6,422,967

335,441

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
Climate change project
Deployment of standby experts
Emerging Resettlement Countries Joint Support
Mechanism
Enhancing resettlement activities
Enhancing resettlement activities
Enhancing resettlement activities
Enhancing resettlement activities

62 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 63

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 9

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

DONOR

PILLAR 1

DONORS

Refugee
programme

TABLE 10

| CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE JUNIOR PROFESSIONAL
OFFICERS SCHEME | 2019
USD

ALL PILLARS

USD

TOTAL
DONOR

AMOUNT

DONOR

AMOUNT

DIVISION OF RESILIENCE AND SOLUTIONS
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
A.Einstein German Academic Refugee Initiative (DAFI)
Digital education
DRS livelihoods
Durable solutions
Education for All
Education for All
Education for All
Global Compact on Refugees
Global Compact on Refugees
Global Compact on Refugees
Global Compact on Refugees
Innovative solutions
Innovative solutions
MADE51 livelihoods initiative
MADE51 livelihoods initiative
Partnership jobs and education project
Peace nexus
Resilience and solutions

Asfari Foundation
Germany
Private donors in the Republic of Korea
Said Foundation
SAP (UK) Ltd.
The Hands Up Foundation
UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (Germany)
USA for UNHCR
Üsine Foundation
Google
European Union
Denmark
Google
Netherlands
UNICEF
European Union
Germany
IKEA Foundation
Japan
Luxembourg
Sweden
Krueger Foundation
The Andan Foundation
Netherlands
Japan
Germany
SUBTOTAL

231,910
18,461,729
22,217
356,910
25,000
527,266
329,670
50,000
107,646
223,146
53,499
3,049,245
390,854
36,024
248,203
887,441
1,106,195
39,339
903,016
299,163
23,468
5,000
80,000
567,100
90,302
2,272,727
29,393,754

993,318

231,910
18,461,729
22,217
356,910
25,000
527,266
329,670
50,000
107,646
223,146
53,499
3,049,245
390,854
36,024
248,203
887,441
1,106,195
39,339
903,016
299,163
23,468
5,000
80,000
567,100
90,302
2,272,727
30,387,072

Innovative solutions
Innovative solutions

Global operations

Japan
Netherlands
China
Germany
Denmark
Sweden
Italy

TABLE 11

Belgium
Luxembourg
SUBTOTAL

457,882
1,361,506
1,819,388

United States of America
SUBTOTAL

457,882
1,361,506
1,819,388
45,800,000
45,800,000

45,800,000
45,800,000

66,200,682

47,948,746 114,149,428

Notes:
1
Contributions include 7% programme support costs.				
2 Includes $12.3 million acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $17.2 million acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.

64 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

300,025

France

285,683

Switzerland

224,164

Luxembourg

200,300

Republic of Korea

185,278

Austria

122,019

TOTAL

11,473,300

20,000,000

1. "NEW OR ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES - MANDATE-RELATED" RESERVE APPROVED BY EXCOM IN OCTOBER 2018
2. TRANSFERS
Pillar 1

Pillar 2

Pillar 3

Pillar 4

Total

OPERATIONAL RESERVE
Transfer from the operational reserve

2. TOTAL TRANSFERS IN		

30,000,000

-

-

-

30,000,000

30,000,000

-

-

-

30,000,000

44,399,252

-

-

-

44,399,252

44,399,252

-

-

-

44,399,252

3. TRANSFERS OUT

THE AMERICAS
Mexico

TOTAL*

Finland

| TRANSFERS FROM THE 2019 “NEW OR ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES MANDATE-RELATED” RESERVE | USD

Operational reserve

EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT

2,650,000
2,407,086
1,436,542
1,034,195
992,842
662,231
487,749
485,186

United States of America

Strengthening capacity to support increased protection and
assistance activities

3. TOTAL TRANSFERS OUT
4. BALANCE AFTER TRANSFERS

5,600,748

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 65

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 12

OV E R V I E W I F U N D I N G U N H C R 's P R O G R A M M E S

| TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE | 2019

TABLE 12

620,168,102

1. OPERATIONAL RESERVE APPROVED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IN OCTOBER 2018
2. TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE

| TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE | 2019
620,168,102

1. OPERATIONAL RESERVE APPROVED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IN OCTOBER 2018
2. TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE

Pillar 4

Total

SUBTOTAL

-

3,000,000

3,000,000

HEADQUARTERS

5,785,086

-

5,785,086

Executive Direction and
Management

3,356,474

-

10,000,000

Pillar 1

44,986,316

-

44,986,316

36,000

-

36,000

250,000

-

250,000

302,290

-

302,290

376,809

-

376,809

437,493
225,902

-

437,493
225,902

1,347,386

-

1,347,386

3,892,459

-

3,892,459

6,868,339

-

6,868,339

30,000,000

-

30,000,000

30,000,000
157,783,122

3,000,000

30,000,000
160,783,122

AFRICA
Provision of protection and assistance to internally displaced persons
Response to the voluntary return of Somali refugees and the return
of Eritreans from Libya
Assistance for the socioeconomic integration of Malian refugees
Emergency Transit Mechanism related to central Mediterranean mixed
movement situation

Burkina Faso
Eritrea
Niger
Rwanda

SUBTOTAL

1)

Global Compact on Refugees

3,356,474

2)

-

10,000,000

3)

Prevention and response to sexual exploitation and abuse, and sexual
harrassment and abuse of authority
Additional share of costs for administration of justice

19,141,560

3,000,000

22,141,560

1)

9,730,669

-

9,730,669

2,506,238
10,000,000
2,400,000

-

2,506,238
10,000,000
2,400,000

5,900,000

-

5,900,000

SUBTOTAL

8,900,000

-

8,900,000

"NEW OR ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES - MANDATE-RELATED" (NAM) RESERVE	

8,000,000

-

8,000,000

NAM reserve

8,500,000

-

8,500,000

850,000
56,786,907

-

850,000
56,786,907

THE AMERICAS
Increase for the situation for the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela

Bolivarian Republic
of Venezuela
Brazil
Costa Rica
Panama Regional Office

Increase for the situation for the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
North of Central America's additional requirements
1) Strengthen protection policy and asylum processes
2) Strengthen protection capacity and provision of humanitarian aid and
multi-purpose cash grants
3) Strengthen asylum system and solutions mechanism
4)

Enhance protection capacity

5) Enhance protection and solutions process
North of Central America's additional requirements

Regional activities

SUBTOTAL

2)

GLOBAL PROGRAMMES
Humanitarian education accelerator project

Division of External Relations

"Telling the real story" project			
Global Compact on Refugees

1)
2)

Division of Emergency,
Security and Supply
Division of Resilience and
Solutions

Division of Programme
Support and Management

634,815

-

634,815

2,415,723

-

2,415,723

687,437

-

687,437

225,437

-

225,437

788,458

-

788,458

3)

Prevention and response to sexual exploitation and abuse, and sexual
harrassment and abuse of authority
Enhancing UNHCR's resettlement capacity

4)

Senior Advisor on IDPs

334,538

-

334,538

1)

Additional cost sharing for security-related UN joint activities

259,840

-

259,840

2)

Global Fleet Management*
Global Compact on Refugees

14,794,136

-

14,794,136

1)

5,669,630

-

5,669,630

2)

Education project

625,284

-

625,284

3)

Government of the Netherlands - Partnership Seed Funding

238,400

-

238,400

1,910,000

-

1,910,000

1,718,791

-

1,718,791

9,500,000

-

9,500,000

Additional costs related to software revised subscriptions		

Division of Information Systems
and Telecommunications
Division of Human Resources

Regional Bureaux
Division of Human Resources
Division of Financial and
Administrative Management

Prevention and response to sexual exploitation and abuse, and sexual
harrassment and abuse of authority
Strengthening donor relations support functions
Special Envoy for the Central Mediterranean Situation
Prevention and response to sexual exploitation and abuse, and sexual
harrassment and abuse of authority
In-kind contribution for rental of premIses

Independent Audit and Oversight and Internal Audit's additional
requirements

SUBTOTAL
TOTAL TRANSFERS
3. BALANCE AFTER TRANSFERS

Executive Direction and
Management
Division of International
Protection

Executive Direction and
Management

2)

Prevention and response to sexual exploitation and abuse, and sexual
harrassment and abuse of authority
Voluntary separation costs

3)

Additional termination costs

4,000,000

-

4,000,000

1)

Support to the Business Innovation Group

683,827

-

683,827

2)

Additional external audit cost for partnership projects

500,000

-

500,000

1)

66 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

459,384,979.775

* This line consolidates several transfers in accordance with the business model of the Global Fleet Management.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 67

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

POPULATIONS OF CONCERN TO UNHCR

Europe

14%

Middle East
and
North Africa

Asia and
the Pacific

11%

18%
The Americas

18%

Refugees
Asylum-seekers

Africa

Returnees (refugees and IDPs)

39%

Stateless persons
Internally displaced people (IDPs)
Others of concern
Venezuelans displaced abroad

[ EN D DECEM BER 2019]
Africa
Refugees
Persons in refugee-like
situations (1)
Total refugees
Asylum-seekers
(2)

Returned refugees 
IDPs protected/assisted
by UNHCR (3)
Returned IDPs

(4)

The Americas

Stateless persons
Others of concern (5)
Venezuelans displaced
abroad (6)
TOTAL

68 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Middle East
and
North Africa

Europe

TOTAL
POPULATION
OF CONCERN


6,348,744

592,892

4,133,666

6,543,455

2,602,424

20,221,181

-

108,760

48,659

26,967

40,332

224,718

6,348,744

701,652

4,182,325

6,570,422

2,642,756

20,445,899

529,570

1,902,133

212,396

1,242,168

263,586

4,149,853

211,676

31

10,361

58

95,081

317,207

18,511,592

8,295,002

3,170,095

1,983,659

11,543,014

43,503,362

127,128

165

982,033

5,343,793

527,959

370,519

4,161,979 *

1,761,024

41,166

4,234,467



Asia
and the
Pacific

974,988

4,052

2,540,697

1,165,309

2,284,461*
632,492

6,140,688

The data are generally provided by Governments, based on their own definitions and methods of data collection. A dash ("-")
indicates that the value is zero, not available or not applicable. All data are provisional and subject to change. More information
on people of concern to UNHCR in 2019, including statistical trends and changes of global displacement during the year, can be
found in the “2019 Global Trends” report.
(1)	

Includes groups of persons who are outside their country or territory of origin and who face protection risks similar to those of refugees, but for
whom refugee status has, for practical or other reasons, not been ascertained.
	
(2) Includes refugees who have returned to their place of origin during 2019. Source: country of origin and asylum.
	
(3) Includes IDPs who are in IDP-like situations.
	
(4) Includes IDPs protected/assisted by UNHCR who have returned to their place of origin during 2019.
	
(5) People of concern to UNHCR not included in the other categories but to whom UNHCR may extend its protection and/or assistance.
(6)	 Venezuelans displaced abroad refers to persons of Venezuelan origin who are likely to be in need of international protection under the criteria
contained in the Cartagena Declaration, but who have not applied for asylum in the country in which they are present. Regardless of status,
Venezuelans displaced abroad require protection against forced returns, and access to basic services. UNHCR and IOM work together with
this population by leading the Regional Inter-Agency Coordination Platform, which is aimed at strengthening protection and consistent responses
across the region in line with human rights standards..
*	

-

3,582,203

-

-

-

3,582,203

33,351,734

15,650,382

9,505,943

12,085,455

15,938,155

86,531,669

The total statelessness figure includes 1,113,315 stateless persons of Rohingya ethnicity who are also counted as refugees, asylum-seekers or
others of concern in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand or as IDPs in Myanmar. UNHCR’s statistical reporting generally follows
a methodology that reports only one legal status for each person of concern. However, due to the size of the stateless Rohingya population
displaced from Myanmar, UNHCR considers it important to reflect the dual status of this population group as both displaced and stateless.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 69

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

Africa
“

Despite development challenges and resource constraints,
governments and communities in the region have continued to show
exemplary solidarity in hosting forcibly displaced people. Ahead of
the Global Refugee Forum, the region had embraced the Global
Compact on Refugees through the implementation of the
Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework for greater social and
economic inclusion of refugees and other people of concern.
—Raouf Mazou, Former Director, Regional Bureau for Africa

”

Refugee children from Cameroon sit with their belongings
while their families wait to be relocated at the Agadom
refugee settlement in Ogoja, Nigeria.
© UNHCR/Will Swanson

70 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 71

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

In 2019, the number of uprooted people
in sub-Saharan Africa reached record
levels with 33.4 million people of concern
to UNHCR—39% of the global total—
including 6.3 million refugees—57%
children—and 18.5 million IDPs.
Violent extremism, intra-communal clashes,
food insecurity and climate change fueled
displacement, with UNHCR working in
major refugee and internal displacement
situations across the Sahel and Lake Chad
Basin—in Burkina Faso, Mali, Niger, and
Nigeria—as well as in Burundi, Cameroon,
the Central African Republic (CAR), the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC),
Somalia and South Sudan, among others.
At 2.2 million people, the single largest
refugee population remained the South
Sudanese, most of whom were hosted
in Uganda. African countries largely
maintained open-door asylum policies.
Uganda remained the country hosting
the most refugees in Africa, with large
refugee populations also in Ethiopia,
Sudan, and Kenya.
Alongside refugees, UNHCR also responded
to the protection and assistance needs of
millions of IDPs. The number of IDPs in
West and Central Africa reached 5 million
by the end of the year, an increase of 30%
compared to 2018. In the DRC, 520,000
more Congolese were displaced for a total
of 5.01 million IDPs at the end of 2019, the
world’s third largest internally displaced
population. Other significant IDP populations
included Somalis (2.65 million) and
South Sudanese (1.67 million).

72 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Stepping up and renewing its commitments
to IDPs, UNHCR's updated IDP Policy
included priority initiatives targeting
Burkina Faso, the DRC, Ethiopia, Sudan
and South Sudan.
UNHCR provided protection and assistance
to the most vulnerable, supported social
cohesion programmes, led protection,
shelter and CCCM clusters as part of
inter-agency responses, and prioritized
services for close to 13,000 survivors of
sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV).
Overall cash assistance was scaled-up, with
$50.5 million distributed across the region
in 2019, facilitating the socioeconomic
inclusion of beneficiaries.
The Office worked with States and regional
actors to strengthen asylum and refugee
protection, including extensive work on a
Sahel protection strategy. In South Africa,
a UNHCR-initiated project was launched
to address the backlog of around
150,000 individuals in the Government's
refugee status determination appeal
process. UNHCR’s Biometric Identity
Management System was rolled out in nine
countries in West Africa, registering some
130,600 individuals. In line with the UNHCR
data strategy, Data Identity Management
and Analysis units were set up in the
new bureaux.
With governments, UNHCR facilitated
voluntary returns of refugees to
Burundi (20,900), the CAR (12,400),
Chad (300), Côte d’Ivoire (3,200),
the DRC (17,000), Mali (3,770) and
Somalia (6,200).

On local integration of refugees, out-of-camp
arrangements and residence and work
permits were pursued. Notably,
the Gambia and Guinea-Bissau granted
citizenship to more than 5,000 refugees.
To eradicate statelessness, UNHCR
facilitated birth registration and certificates,
provided governments with technical support
on removing gender discrimination from
nationality laws and supported national
action plans and high-level events
advancing legal instruments. In Kenya,
some 18,500 stateless persons will qualify
for nationality under the citizenship law.
Though resettlement quotas decreased
significantly, available places served as a
lifeline for 24,248 refugees who departed
for resettlement in 2019, and 878 refugees
were evacuated from Libya through the
Emergency Transit Mechanism (ETM)
in Niger. An ETM was also established
in Rwanda following the Government’s
offer to the African Union to host up
to 30,000 vulnerable refugees and
asylum-seekers; some 300 people were
evacuated there by the end of 2019.
The Comprehensive Refugee Response
Framework was implemented in Chad,
Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Somalia, Uganda
and Zambia. In line with the Global
Compact on Refugees, UNHCR engaged
governments and partners to increase
the socioeconomic inclusion of refugees,
expanded partnerships with development
actors such as the World Bank, and worked
with governments to build inclusive
national education strategies. In Ethiopia,

refugees were granted greater freedom
and access to local economies, while in
Malawi they gained access to banking
services stimulating micro-businesses.
At the Global Refugee Forum hundreds
of pledges were made towards greater
burden- and responsibility-sharing and
the Intergovernmental Authority on
Development (IGAD) Support Platform
was launched.
Designed to improve oversight and
management of operations, three new
bureaux were established towards
the end of the year as part of UNHCR’s
decentralization and regionalization
process, in the East and Horn of Africa
and the Great Lakes, West and Central
Africa, and Southern Africa regions.
Across its operations, UNHCR maintained
clear standards with respect to
accountability, abuse of authority and
power and protection from sexual
exploitation and abuse and sexual
harassment.
The region’s budget in 2019 was
$2.676 billion. Expenditure reached
$1.321 billion, meaning a funding gap
of 51%. Underfunding obliged UNHCR
to prioritize lifesaving activities, thereby
limiting the range of self-reliance
interventions that were implemented.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 73

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Across the continent, displacement—driven by conflict, inter-communal tensions, poverty, disease outbreaks,
climate change and disasters—increased. However, despite rising numbers of people of concern—especially of
internally displaced people—the continent's strong tradition of hospitality remained. States largely kept their
borders open, and pledged extensively alongside many other actors at the Global Refugee Forum.

ACHIEVEMENTS AND KEY RESULTS IN AFRICA

48,643

M illion s

REGISTRATION
7

Child
protection

6.2

6
5
4
3

12,993

4.4

4.1

3.1

2

SGBV

1.5

1
0.1

0

0.85

0.3

2015

0.2

2016

unaccompanied or separated
children had a best interests
assessment initiated or
completed

SGBV incidents reported
for which survivors received
psychological and social
counselling

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS IN AFRICA IN 2019
MALI

164,500

CENTRAL AFRICAN
REPUBLIC

844,400

REFUGEES

2017

2018

Individual records migrated/registred in proGres v4

Core relief
items

Individual records biometrically registered in BIMS/IrisGuard

Health

per person per day in refugee
camps

$46

2018

WASH

$62.9

2017
$51.5

2016

0

20
Basic needs

40

Seasonal grants

49% of assisted population
had access to a household latrine
143,286 people of concern

$40

2015

(per 1,000 people a month)

18 litres of safe water available

$50.5

2019

0.38 under-5 mortality rate

60
Lifesaving support

received emergency shelter

80

U S D m i l l io ns
Solutions

Shelter

44% of households lived
in adequate dwellings

917,985 children enrolled
in primary education
RESETTLEMENT DEPARTURES
FROM THE REGION

Education

122,605 children enrolled

in secondary education

Individuals

6,368 people of concern
received tertiary education
scholarships

45,000
38,925

37,500
30,000

56,272

people of concern enrolled in
vocational training

24,248

24,016

22,500
15,830

15,000

19,327

RETURNEES

0

MALI
L2
L2
BURKINA FASO

2016

2017

2018

2019

32,387 individuals submitted for resettlement in 2019

74 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 20 1 9

Voluntary
repatriation

REFUGEE RETURNEES

276,500

IDP RETURNEES

NIGER
L2

63%

CHAD

CHILDREN

SUDAN
NIGERIA

L2
CAMEROON

NIGERIA
285,000

REFUGEES IN THE LAKE CHAD BASIN

2.3 million

ETHIOPIA

L2

CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC

SOUTH
SUDAN

SOMALIA
L2

UGANDA
DEMOCRATIC
KENYA
REPUBLIC OF
THE CONGO RWANDA
L3

IDPs

SOMALIA
773,800

L2
BURUNDI

SOMALI REFUGEES IN
NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES
AND YEMEN

2.65 million

CAMEROON
54,300

CAMEROONIAN REFUGEES IN NIGERIA

670,400

1

INTERNALLY DISPLACED
REFUGEE RETURNEES

MALAWI

IDP

ZIMBABWE
L3

DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF THE CONGO

6,200

L3

ZAMBIA

2

BURUNDI
333,600

MOZAMBIQUE
L3

BURUNDIAN REFUGEES IN
NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES

33,300

916,800

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

21,200

5.01 million

REFUGEE RETURNEES

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

2.1 million

Situation

IDP RETURNEES

58%

CRRF country

CHILDREN

IDP initiative

OCHA figure
2
OCHA figure. Government estimate: 152,000 people
1

L 2/3

Level of emergency

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

PEOPLE OF CONCERN

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

IN AFRICA

19%

REFUGEES
6.3 MILLION

84,559
2015

99,800

REFUGEE AND
IDP RETURNEES

Self-reliance
and livelihoods

7,500

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

137,200

89,036 live births attended
CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR

1.67 million

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

40,400

672,715 women received
sanitary materials
by skilled personnel

SOUTH SUDANESE
REFUGEES IN
NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES

669,900

IDPs IN MALI, BURKINA FASO
AND WESTERN NIGER

with core relief items

2019

2.2 million

610,300

MALIAN REFUGEES

590,011 households reached

0.3

SOUTH SUDAN

people of concern received
voluntary repatriation cash
grants

39%

of the global population
of concern

20%

13%

33.4 million
people of concern in Afria

RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
4.4 MILLION

40%

56%

IDPs
18.5 MILLION

2%
530,000
3% STATELESS PERSONS
975,000
8% OTHERS OF CONCERN
2.5 MILLION

12%

60+
18-59
12-17
5-11

4%

0-4

UNDER 18

57%

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 20 1 9 75

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS
IN AFRICA IN 2019 (continued)
BURUNDI
The Burundi situation remained one of the least-funded refugee situations in
the world, with over 333,600 Burundian refugees in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC), Rwanda, the United Republic of Tanzania and Uganda
contending with inadequate shelter, lack of medicine and overcrowded classrooms.
The situation within Burundi remained complex. While overall insecurity
decreased, reported human rights violations continued and over 11,000 new
Burundian refugees sought asylum in neighbouring countries and beyond.
UNHCR and partners did not promote returns, however, 21,200 refugees made a free and informed
choice to return voluntarily and UNHCR assisted with repatriation and reintegration support in Burundi,
along with 19 partners through the Joint Refugee Return and Reintegration Plan.

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
20,916 refugees assisted to
voluntarily repatriate to Burundi
42,865 Burundian refugee
children enrolled in primary school
in the United Republic of Tanzania
3,626 Burundian refugee
households received core relief
items in the United Republic of
Tanzania

In line with the Burundi Regional Refugee Response Plan, which brought together over 35 partners,
UNHCR provided humanitarian assistance and protection for Burundian refugees in the four main countries of asylum.

CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Despite insecurity throughout the year, relative calm in parts of the country
and the signing of tripartite agreements in 2019 allowed UNHCR to facilitate
the voluntary return of over 12,400 Central African Republic (CAR) refugees
from Cameroon, the Republic of the Congo and the DRC.
UNHCR also provided protection for over 600,000 CAR refugees in neighbouring
countries and pursued solutions in collaboration with development actors and
host governments.
In the CAR, UNHCR led the Protection, Shelter and CCCM Clusters in support of over 687,000 IDPs
through the rehabilitation of health and educational facilities; assistance in securing documentation and
birth registration; livelihoods training; and the distribution of agriculture kits and tools. Collaboration with
local authorities and key humanitarian and development partners was strengthened to facilitate the
return and reintegration of IDPs.

By the end of 2019, over 51,000 Cameroonian refugees had fled to border
areas of South-East Nigeria. With support from the Government of Nigeria,
UNHCR relocated 8,041 refugees to Benue, Cross River and Taraba States,
promoting an out-of-camp approach, and increasing its use of cash assistance to foster socioeconomic
inclusion and strengthen the resilience of both Cameroonian refugees and host communities.

12,592 IDP households received
core relief items and shelter kits
52,296 CAR refugee children
enrolled in primary and secondary
education in Cameroon and Chad

98,000 identity documents issued
to displaced populations and hosts
in Burkina Faso
2,936 refugee and IDP families
received emergency shelter
assistance and shelter kits in
western Niger

Throughout northern Nigeria, especially around the Lake Chad Basin, people of
concern and humanitarian workers alike were faced with mounting insecurity.
The situation in Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara States in north-western Nigeria
drove over 40,000 refugees to the Maradi region in southern Niger.
In South-East Nigeria, the number of Cameroonian refugees increased by 35%,
reaching 51,700 by the end of 2019. UNHCR and partners provided emergency
assistance such as multi-purpose cash grants, shelter and core relief items, and
relocated over 8,000 refugees from border areas while undertaking biometric registration, protection
monitoring and ensuring the provision of basic health care services to those with the most pressing
needs.

12,522 Nigerian IDP and refugee
households received core relief
items in Cameroon, Chad, Niger
and Nigeria
15,526 Nigerian refugee children
were enrolled in primary and
secondary education in Cameroon,
Chad and Niger

SOMALIA
7,350 IDP households received
core relief items in Cameroon
7,027 Cameroonian refugee
children enrolled in primary and
secondary education in Nigeria
6,057 Cameroonian refugees
received shelter support in Nigeria

Efforts continued in what is one of the world’s longest-running refugee
situations to create an enabling environment for the reintegration of over
120,000 Somali refugee returnees who repatriated in previous years. The
volatile security situation in Somalia however remained an impediment to safe
return, with only 6,200 returnees in 2019.
Against the backdrop of an ongoing state-building process, returnees and IDPs
faced severe hunger, drought and ongoing insecurity. Funding shortfalls meant
the majority of IDPs, and the 17,900 refugees hosted in Somalia, remained in need of urgent
humanitarian assistance.

20,500 Somali IDP households
received cash grants
46,886 Somali refugee children
enrolled in primary education in
Kenya
16,459 Somali refugee households
received core relief items in
Ethiopia

UNHCR’s Special Envoy to the East and Horn of Africa played a key role in maintaining high-level
political focus and support to the Somalia situation and prioritized education and jobs through the
implementation of the Djibouti Declaration on Education and the Kampala Declaration on Livelihoods. Support was also mobilized from the private sector
and the global Somali diaspora. UNHCR and partners provided capacity building to the Government of Somalia to implement comprehensive solutions for
the 2.65 million IDPs in 2019.

61,000 IDPs benefitted from
multi-purpose cash assistance
118,000 IDPs received core relief
items

87,576 IDPs received shelter
As part of its humanitarian response, UNHCR provided shelter support; built schools, health centers
support
and other community infrastructures; provided cash assistance; and responded to protection incidents.
As part of the CCCM coordination strategy, UNHCR strengthened the capacity of site management
personnel and Government actors to ensure the protection of IDPs and proper site management.
UNHCR also led advocacy efforts for the decongestion of the Institut Supérieur Pédagogique displacement site and the closure of the overcrowded
General Hospital site in Bunia, Ituri Province. A new displacement site was opened in October 2019, where people were relocated to decongest other
sites. UNHCR created and revitalized IDP committees to strengthen self-management in displacement sites.
In 2019, as part of the Regional Refugee Response Plan, UNHCR along with 57 partners provided critical protection and assistance to some
916,800 Congolese refugees in seven neighbouring countries as well as in the wider Southern Africa region.

76 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Despite these factors and a shrinking humanitarian space, UNHCR and its
partners scaled up assistance to a growing population of concern, notably in
Burkina Faso. Seven clusters were activated, including the Protection and Shelter/NFI Clusters led by
UNHCR. At the regional level and in coordination with the Governments of Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali,
Mauritania and Niger, UNHCR initiated the development of a Sahel protection strategy, to address
sexual and gender-based violence and ensure continued access to education, while providing shelter
assistance in an environmentally-conscious manner in a region particularly affected by climate change.
This strategy was to be launched in January 2020.

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

In North-Eastern Nigeria, over 2 million people were internally displaced in Borno, Adamawa, and Yobe States by the end of 2019. There, UNHCR
provided protection and assistance in support of the Government, leading the Protection, Shelter/NFI and CCCM Clusters, and with partners conducted
some 2,472 monitoring missions to inform UNHCR’s protection response in the region. A strong focus was placed on sexual and gender-based violence
prevention and response, with more than 768 survivors receiving assistance, including psychosocial counselling and referrals to specialized services.

DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
Although a peaceful transition of power followed the presidential elections
in December 2018, the security and humanitarian situation continued to
deteriorate, mainly in the east, in what is one of the most complex and
long-standing humanitarian crises in Africa. Approximately 1.67 million people
were newly displaced in 2019, despite Government efforts to promote returns
for refugees, asylum-seekers and IDPs. Furthermore, Ebola and measles
epidemics took more than 2,000 lives and 2,700 lives respectively.

In the second half of 2019, rising insecurity triggered forced displacement in the
Liptako-Gourma area, where Burkina Faso, Mali and Niger share common
borders. Violent extremism was a key driver of this multifaceted crisis,
exacerbating pre-existing vulnerabilities such as weak governance, severe
climate change, rapid demographic growth and scarce natural resources.

NIGERIA
12,400 refugees assisted to
voluntarily return to the CAR

CAMEROON
Against a backdrop of deteriorating security, UNHCR and partners supported
the Government of Cameroon in providing protection and assistance to over
240,000 newly displaced IDPs in the south-western and north-western regions
of Cameroon.

MALI

SOUTH SUDAN
South Sudan remained the largest refugee displacement situation in Africa, with
over 2.2 million refugees recorded. While most parts of the country saw less
armed conflict, the formation of the transitional Government was delayed and
over 74,000 new South Sudanese refugees sought safety in neighbouring
countries.
Although UNHCR’s regional intention survey highlighted that the majority of
refugees did not have plans to return in the near future, nearly 100,000 South
Sudanese refugees returned spontaneously, of which 4,560 households were assisted with core relief
items. A majority of those who returned are living in IDP-like situations, in addition to an already existing
internally displaced population of 1.67 million, including some 190,000 IDPs living in Protection of
Civilian sites. Over 38,700 South Sudanese IDP households received core relief items.

181,297 South Sudanese refugee
children enrolled in primary school
in Uganda
64,610 South Sudanese refugee
households received core relief
items in Ethiopia
38,741 South Sudanese IDP
households received core relief
items

In line with the South Sudan Regional Refugee Response Plan, and working with 95 partners, UNHCR’s humanitarian response focused on ensuring
protection, providing lifesaving assistance and expanding opportunities for self-reliance.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 77

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS AND IMPACT
EAST AND HORN OF AFRICA AND THE GREAT LAKES
© UNHCR/Eduardo Soteras Jalil

Unaccompanied South Sudanese minors sit outside their house at Jewi refugee camp in Ethiopia.

Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum

Telling the
Real Story

UNHCR and partners worked in support of
governments hosting a total of 4.6 million
refugees and asylum-seekers with the aim
of maintaining open-door asylum policies.
While the protection environment remained
generally hospitable in 2019, there were
concerning instances of forced return of
refugees. UNHCR worked closely with
States to strengthen asylum institutions
and refugee protection capacity, including
those where the quality and accessibility
of asylum procedures were deteriorating.
Advocacy interventions included engagement
with the East African Community Chiefs
of Refugee Management to develop a
regional refugee management policy.

78 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

A key development in UNHCR’s response
to mixed movements was the establishment
in late 2019 in Rwanda of the Emergency
Transit Mechanism. This followed an offer
by the Government to the African Union to
host up to 30,000 vulnerable refugees and
asylum-seekers evacuated from detention
centers and highly insecure conditions
in Libya. By the end of 2019, more than
300 evacuees had arrived in Rwanda,
with a range of options for durable solutions
and complementary pathways being
pursued, including a first group of
resettlement departures to Sweden.
Another initiative was "Telling the Real
Story", an information campaign designed
to communicate with communities on the
dangers of the perilous journeys across
the Gulf of Aden and the Mediterranean.

Responding with lifesaving
assistance
UNHCR’s lifesaving support in the region
focused on interventions in emergency
preparedness, strengthening
community-based protection, child
protection, prevention and response to
SGBV, shelter, water and sanitation,
nutrition, education, livelihoods and energy
conservation. The Office scaled up
capacity-building activities on prevention
and response to SGBV for UNHCR staff,
government counterparts, partners and
refugee communities in different country
operations, with two regional and six
national workshops organized. In
collaboration with UNHCR’s operational
partner in Kenya, Population Council,
additional technical assistance was
provided to eight country operations
implementing the SAUTI project, (SAUTI
a Swahili word meaning VOICE—Violence
Prevention and Response through
Information, Communication, and Evidence)
with various strategies of preventing,
mitigating and responding to SGBV.
In line with the objectives of the Global
Compact on Refugees, UNHCR’s
overarching strategic objective in the
region was to support socioeconomic
inclusion and resilience for refugees living
in camps and camp-like settlements (82%),
urban areas (13%) and other rural
out-of-camp settlements (5%). As many
camps and settlements were in remote
and underdeveloped areas, where
resources, infrastructure and basic services
were extremely limited, UNHCR and its
humanitarian and development partners
prioritized including refugees in national and
local systems for basic service provision and
renewing focus on sustainable energy,
environmental protection and social cohesion.

In 2019, UNHCR spearheaded inter-agency
efforts to scale up cash assistance where
feasible, with approximately 5% of UNHCR’s
assistance in the region delivered through
such interventions, a 3% increase compared
to 2018. Multi-purpose cash for basic needs,
livelihoods, repatriation and reintegration,
education and shelter, as well as services
for persons at heightened risk remained
critical in support of self-reliance efforts.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
The protracted Burundi, Eritrea, Somalia
and Sudan refugee situations saw little
scope for comprehensive durable solutions.
Despite constraints, UNHCR worked with
governments to achieve more equitable
responsibility-sharing and durable solutions
where possible, promoting the self-reliance
of refugees, returnees and host communities.
A revitalized peace agreement created
opportunities for the return of some
displaced South Sudanese, while small-scale
returns continued to Burundi, Somalia and
Sudan. UNHCR supported 21,200 Burundian
and 6,200 Somali refugees in the United
Republic of Tanzania and Kenya
respectively to voluntarily repatriate.
Resilience was strengthened through the
gradual inclusion of refugees in national
development plans and national service
delivery systems. Ethiopia adopted a
progressive Refugee Proclamation in
January 2019, granting refugees greater
freedom of movement and access to local
economies. In Uganda, the largest
refugee-hosting country in Africa, work
commenced to include refugees in national
and district development plans. In Somalia,
a National Durable Solutions Secretariat
was launched in October 2019 to coordinate
solutions initiatives in 2020 and beyond.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 79

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Regional actors, in particular IGAD and the
International Conference of the Great
Lakes Region (ICGLR) promoted multiple
regional commitments in support of
durable solutions. Several States pledged
to create conditions conducive to return
and local integration at the Global Refugee
Forum, which also saw the launch of the
IGAD Support Platform, featuring a
dedicated returns and reintegration pillar,
aiming to galvanize additional support for
Member States’ efforts in rolling out more
comprehensive responses to refugee
situations.
Opportunities for third-country resettlement
were reduced in 2019, with 24,393 individuals
submitted for resettlement in 2019,
compared to 27,119 in 2018, an 11%
decrease. Despite these challenges,
over 18,700 individuals departed for
resettlement in 2019, compared to
only 15,388 in 2018.

Large-scale internal displacement
continued in Ethiopia, Somalia,
South Sudan and Sudan, cumulatively
raising to 7.9 million the number of IDPs
across these four countries. In line with
UNHCR’s IDP initiative, application of which
was prioritized in Ethiopia, South Sudan
and Sudan, areas of intervention for IDPs
included community-based approaches to
prevention, response and mitigation of the
most urgent protection risks and needs,
including engagement with relevant lead
agencies to combat SGBV and promote
child protection. In Ethiopia, UNHCR
devised a new protection and solutions
strategy in late 2019 to respond to internal
displacement and adapted following new
displacement as a result of inter-communal

80 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

violence. Working with the Government
and other stakeholders in support of the
National Durable Solutions Initiative,
UNHCR initiated quick impact projects as
part of an area-based assistance model
and strengthened protection monitoring
and analysis. In South Sudan, through
the GP20 Initiative, IDPs were consulted
on the development of the IDP law and
UNHCR supported the internally displaced
community to ensure a solutions-oriented
approach for those returning.
Intra-communal tensions, often exacerbated
by disasters, continued to impede safe
return and reintegration for many.
Opportunities to pursue solutions for
IDPs in the region were bolstered by
South Sudan’s accession and Somalia’s
ratification of the Kampala Convention.
Somalia’s Government adopted a national
framework on IDPs and returnees, and
similar national frameworks are being
revised or will soon be adopted by
other countries in the region.
UNHCR’s role leading the Protection
Clusters in Ethiopia, South Sudan, Somalia
and Sudan was pivotal to addressing key
issues such as access to housing, land and
property.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
In preparation for the High-Level Segment
on Statelessness (HLS), UNHCR co-convened
a ministerial conference on the eradication
of statelessness with the ICGLR Secretariat
and the Government of Kenya. This landmark
regional preparatory event allowed the
12 ICGLR Member States and key regional
bodies to deliver strong indicative pledges
to end statelessness in their respective
countries.

At the HLS in October 2019, these
indicative pledges were translated into
49 formal commitments to eradicate
statelessness by Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda,
Somalia, Uganda, and South Sudan, two
key regional bodies (ICGLR and the AU
Commission), and four NGOs from the
region. Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan and
Uganda each committed to adopt national
action plans to end statelessness by 2024
and the ICGLR Secretariat pledged to
support the adoption of the consolidated
action plan on the eradication of
statelessness and steer the development
of a regional policy on birth registration to
prevent statelessness.
These commitments will pave the way for
further concrete engagement in the region
by States to identify, reduce and prevent
statelessness for the four remaining years

© UNHCR/Samuel Otieno

Ensuring protection, assistance and
solutions in internal displacement
contexts

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

of the #IBelong Campaign. This will
include access to nationality for about
18,500 stateless persons who qualify
under the Citizenship Act in Kenya;
accession to the statelessness conventions
and reform of domestic law to incorporate
safeguards against statelessness; and
facilitated birth registration for those at
risk of statelessness such as refugees
and returnees.
In Sudan, a project that began in 2012
to support individuals of South Sudanese
origin to acquire South Sudanese
nationality documentation—in partnership
with the South Sudanese Directorate of
Nationality, Passports and Immigration,
and the South Sudanese Consulate in
Khartoum—saw a total of 70,349 individuals
acquiring their nationality documents
in 2019.

Environmentally-friendly, economically
productive and user-friendly sanitation
solutions for refugees
In 2019, UNHCR and the Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation completed a four year Waste-to-Value
Sanitation Solutions project in Sub-Saharan Africa.
The project explored sanitation technologies that can
be used in difficult ground conditions and which capture
the embodied energy or nutrients in human waste:
transforming human waste into a commodity, such as
fuel briquettes for cooking or a fertilizer for agro-forestry
products.
In Kenya, the project was implemented together with the company Sanivation which provides container-based
toilet systems and processes waste into a solid fuel product. The system ensures safely managed sanitation
for households and reduces the land area required for sanitation facilities. The product created
is a more economical, efficient and environmentally-friendly alternative to conventional charcoal
which refugees use as fuel for cooking. In addition, the project has generated livelihood
opportunities, with over 25 refugees and 8 members of the host community gaining employment
opportunities as a result.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 81

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

SOUTHERN AFRICA
© UNHCR/Adrienne Surprenant

and 18 by non-State actors—at the Global
Refugee Forum. Most of the pledges
centered around improving protection
capacity (24), providing solutions (17)
and improving access to livelihoods (8).

Responding with lifesaving assistance

Returnees wave to Congolese people on the shoreline of the Ubangi river, as the boat carrying them back to the CAR leaves Zongo port in the DRC.

Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum

law training with 50 Zambian government
officials trained in border areas of the DRC.

In 2019, UNHCR sought to strengthen
and promote a favourable protection
environment for people of concern by
reinforcing asylum systems and legal
protection frameworks, as well as
improving the quality and integrity
of registration and reinforcing data
management and analysis.

With registration and identity management
a cornerstone of UNHCR’s protection
response, UNHCR ensured the
pre-registration of 5,000 new CAR
asylum-seekers in the DRC to quickly
move them away from unsafe border areas.
In Mozambique, an identification card
distribution campaign expanded the
protection environment and guaranteed
the freedom of movement of the over
23,693 refugees and asylum-seekers
residing there and in the Republic of the
Congo: with the assistance of UNHCR, the
Government issued 8,939 refugee identity
cards and 1,508 temporary resident
permits to refugees and asylum-seekers.
In Zimbabwe, UNHCR supported the
Government in the issuance of civil status
documentation including identification
cards and birth certificates to
65,095 Zimbabweans affected by
Tropical Cyclone Idai to ensure continued
access to basic social services.

In addition to advocating accession to
and ratification of international and regional
refugee instruments, UNHCR worked closely
with governments to ensure the passing of
robust asylum systems and laws. In Malawi,
UNHCR participated in the finalization of
the Malawi migration policy which, once
approved, will lead to the review of the
Refugee Act, opening a discussion on lifting
reservations to the 1951 Convention.
In South Africa, a UNHCR-initiated project
was launched to address the backlog
of around 150,000 individuals in the
Government’s refugee status determination
(RSD) appeal process. In Zambia, UNHCR
also continued to invest in RSD and refugee
82 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

In total, the Southern Africa region
presented 87 pledges—69 by States

In 2019, UNHCR strengthened emergency
preparedness and enhanced partnerships
following cyclical emergencies in the DRC
and large-scale displacements in Malawi,
Mozambique and Zimbabwe as a result
of Tropical Cyclone Idai. As part of the
collective UN system-wide response,
UNHCR deployed emergency teams to the
three affected countries, and swiftly airlifted
shelter and core relief items from global
stockpiles to assist vulnerable cyclone
survivors.
Cash, along with other assistance and
services anchored in national systems,
was an integral element of UNHCR’s
protection and solutions strategy.
Operations in South Africa and Zambia
used cash as a vehicle for the financial
inclusion of refugees. In South Africa,
UNHCR and partners supported improved
access to social grants for 316 refugees,
and 1,049 refugees and asylum-seekers
received cash assistance for food,
transport, household and hygiene items,
accommodation, shelter and funeral costs.
In areas where cash could not be distributed,
UNHCR prioritized core relief times and shelter.
In the DRC, UNHCR provided 23,619 IDP
households and vulnerable members of the
local population with core relief item kits.
UNHCR built 6,494 shelters and provided
shelter assistance to 87,576 IDPs. UNHCR
also built and rehabilitated shelters for
5,777 Burundian refugees and assisted
112 Central African refugee and Congolese
host community households with relief items
after flooding destroyed shelters, farmlands
and basic social infrastructure.

In Malawi, with additional land granted
by the Government for the expansion of
Dzaleka refugee camp, UNHCR constructed
shelters for 320 families. In Mozambique,
UNHCR conducted core relief item
distributions of sanitary napkins and
soap to women and girls of reproductive
age. In the Republic of the Congo,
UNHCR constructed 790 permanent and
300 temporary shelters, 180 blocks of
latrines and showers and school class
buildings to respond to the influx of
Congolese asylum-seekers, and distributed
essential household items to 2,000 families.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
Pending the availability of durable solutions,
UNHCR enhanced collaboration with
development actors to bridge the gap
between humanitarian and development
efforts, and to ensure that refugees,
particularly those living in poverty,
could access livelihood opportunities.
Livelihood interventions in the region, mainly
in agriculture, enabled beneficiaries to
increase their income and savings, and meet
their basic needs such as food, education,
health and shelter. In Malawi, 450 people
of concern benefitted from the support
provided to the poorest and most vulnerable
refugee and host community households
through the Graduation Approach. In
Angola’s Lóvua settlement, a comprehensive
livelihood strategy was developed with WFP,
with a focus on building refugee resilience
and self-reliance. Under the strategy, the
Government provided access to land and
UNHCR supported 400 refugee farmers with
seeds, farming tools and training. Elsewhere
in the region, UNHCR's advocacy for access
to land to help people of concern feed
themselves in the short and medium term
and become self-reliant in the longer term,
had some success. In Zimbabwe, the
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 83

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Government allocated an additional
25,000 hectares of land to refugees for
agriculture, and during the Global Refugee
Forum, Governments such as Eswatini,
Namibia and Zambia, all pledged to
support refugee self-reliance through
the provision of agricultural land.
Following the signing of a tripartite
agreement with the Governments of the
DRC and the CAR, UNHCR facilitated the
voluntary repatriation of over 3,000 refugees
from the DRC to the CAR. Following the
signing of a tripartite agreement between
UNHCR, the DRC and Angola, over
17,000 Congolese refugees were assisted
to voluntarily return with cash assistance as
part of their return package. In the Republic
of the Congo, UNHCR facilitated the return
of 6,216 refugees in safety and dignity
to the CAR.
The Office also continued to advocate
for resettlement opportunities. UNHCR
submitted 3,861 cases and a total of
1,342 resettlement departures took place
to Australia, Canada, Finland, Sweden and
the United States of America. However,
resettlement is increasingly becoming an
option only for a very limited number of
the most vulnerable refugees.

UNHCR’s response to internal
displacement in 2019 focused on the
coordination of protection and shelter/NFI
clusters, protection monitoring, peaceful
coexistence projects, prevention and
response to SGBV, as well as community
empowerment. These approaches were
put into practice in two significant, but
quite different emergency contexts: that
of continued, conflict-induced displacement
in the DRC, and the response to Tropical
Cyclone Idai.
84 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Focusing on eastern DRC, UNHCR adopted
a mutually reinforcing three-pronged
approach to tackle cyclical displacement.
The approach included strengthening
and formalizing UNHCR’s role in rapid
response; expanding its protection work
in prevention, community-based approaches,
resilience, and social cohesion; and
investing in durable solutions.
As an example of community-based
approaches and durable solutions, in
North Kivu Province, UNHCR established
16 hectares of communal fields, helping
IDPs gain access to agricultural land
and contributing to solutions for almost
10,000 IDPs. UNHCR also included host
communities in its programming, reinforced
local protection structures, and promoted
peaceful coexistence, access to justice
(for example, in case of disputes over land
and property, which were a major cause
of conflict in the DRC), and the participation
of IDPs in decision making. UNHCR's support
to community protection structures and the
strengthening of community complaints
mechanisms greatly contributed to
improving dialogue with local authorities
on the protection of displaced people,
and the involvement of IDPs in identifying
solutions to their problems.
UNHCR also developed a data matrix
for humanitarian actors and other service
providers, which contributed to the
mobilization of multi-sectoral assistance
for 230,000 IDPs across 51 sites.
As Protection Cluster co-lead within the
inter-agency response to Tropical Cyclone
Idai in Malawi, UNHCR coordinated closely
with the authorities and partners to ensure
protection was mainstreamed throughout
the response, including through preventing
and responding to SGBV, as well as sexual
exploitation and abuse. UNHCR also
provided core relief items to tens of
thousands of affected people.

In Beira, Mozambique, 104 protection focal
points were empowered by UNHCR to
facilitate peer sensitization on protectionrelated issues; strengthen community
structures; identify protection risks,
capacities and solutions; and refer
protection cases to relevant actors.
During 2019, UNHCR’s protection monitoring
programme in the DRC was reinforced, with
an added emphasis on quality of analysis,
dissemination practice, and more effective
use of monitoring for advocacy purposes.
In 2019, a total of 31,581 protection incidents
were identified and followed up on through
legal support, medical assistance, temporary
accommodation, cash assistance and other
means.
UNHCR also strengthened its communitybased protection work. A range of
complementary community-based
protection methodologies and tools were
used in communities at heightened risk of
displacement, and in displaced and hosting
communities, including accompaniment of
community-based protection structures,
quick impact projects, technical support
to local authorities and community leaders,
and distribution of multi-purpose cash

assistance for women at risk of sexual
exploitation or negative coping mechanism.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
Advocacy efforts targeting the DRC and
the Republic of the Congo to ratify the 1954
and 1961 Conventions resulted in the DRC
submitting two draft laws on accession to
the 1954 and 1961 Statelessness Conventions
in 2019. The Governments of Malawi,
Zambia and Zimbabwe committed to
acceding to the 1961 Convention on the
Reduction of Stateless.
The High-Level Segment generated
53 pledges from 13 countries in the region to
end statelessness by 2024. The Republic of
the Congo, Eswatini and Zimbabwe adopted
national action plans to end statelessness
that provide for nationality law reform, and in
the case of Eswatini, for the removal of
gender discrimination from the nationality law.
In Malawi, the Citizenship Act was amended
to help ensure that both men and women
have equal citizenship rights when married to
Malawians. In Mozambique, the Government
submitted a pledge at the Global Refugee
Forum to undertake a comprehensive study
on persons at risk of statelessness.

© UNHCR/Luiz Fernando Godinho

Ensuring protection, assistance and
solutions in internal displacement
contexts

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Congolese refugees lend a hand to Cyclone Idai survivors
In a strong show of solidarity, refugees supported the humanitarian response to
Cyclone Idai in Mozambique.
Responding to a call by UNHCR for volunteers to help with emergency response
activities, Kinga and Kevin, two refugees, volunteered to help those affected by
the storm in the port town of Beira, Mozambique.
“I was protected in Mozambique when I needed help and now, I am giving a
hand to those who received me”
—Kinga, Congolese refugee in Mozambique.
Every day, Kinga and Kevin joined UNHCR, other aid agencies, and
the Mozambican authorities to support response activities in the town.
These included the registration of cyclone survivors living in improvised shelters, their relocation to more secure
settlements and allocation of tents and distribution of core relief items like solar lamps, kitchen sets and blankets.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 85

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA
© UNHCR/Jerry de Mars

A Malian Tuareg refugee in Burkina Faso brings his goats back to Goudoubo camp.

Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum
UNHCR supported West African countries’
efforts to strengthen their national asylum
systems, with significant improvements
in Guinea, Guinea-Bissau and Togo,
while new decrees and legislation await
parliamentary endorsement in Benin,
Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali, Nigeria,
Senegal and Sierra Leone. UNHCR also
rolled-out its Biometric Identity Management
System in Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
the CAR, Chad, Gabon, Guinea, Mali,
Niger and Nigeria, resulting in the biometric
enrollment of 130,631 individuals in 2019.
In Burkina Faso, UNHCR contributed to the
issuance of over 76,000 birth certificates,
15,000 nationality certificates and over
7,000 national identity cards to displaced
populations and their hosts in 2019, helping
thousands at risk of statelessness.
86 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Refugees and migrants on the move across
West and Central Africa continued to be
exposed to severe protection risks such
as SGBV, arbitrary detention, torture and
human trafficking, as well as attacks by
armed groups. In addition to its work to
strengthen asylum systems in the region,
UNHCR and its partners provided
meaningful alternatives to onward
movements, including through UNHCR’s
Emergency Transit Mechanism (ETM) in
Niger, which secured the evacuations of
878 refugees from Libya to Niger in 2019.

Responding with lifesaving assistance
Refugee and IDP women and children
were disproportionately affected by
violence and exploitation, including
SGBV, for which UNHCR prioritized
specialized services such as medical
and legal assistance, safe spaces for
refugee women and psychosocial support.

Due to the pervasive insecurity across the
region and the many attacks on schools,
UNHCR advocated for an increase in
educational facilities and alternative
learning solutions. Over 110 additional
classrooms were constructed or renovated
in 2019. In Chad, the "Can’t Wait to Learn"
project engaged locally-based education
stakeholders, community-based
organizations and international software
developers to produce a Ministry of
Education-approved curriculum accessible
on tablets, providing an opportunity for
refugee children to work towards primary
certification even where no teachers or
schools were accessible. In 2019, UNHCR
was able to respond to the educational
needs of 3 million refugee and IDP children
in West and Central Africa, with 736 refugees
awarded DAFI scholarships and
22 graduates employed by the United
Nations Volunteers.
The discrimination and abuse faced by
LGBTI asylum-seekers was a key concern,
with an analysis of their specific needs
undertaken, including a mapping of
existing support mechanisms and gaps
to inform UNHCR’s approach to this issue.
Faced with increasing security challenges
hindering its access to people of concern,
UNHCR scaled up the use of cash
assistance for the provision of shelter and
NFIs and other basic needs, particularly
in the Sahel and the Lake Chad Basin,
thus facilitating the socioeconomic
inclusion of forcibly displaced populations
and contributing to strengthening local
markets and services. In 2019, over
$11 million worth of cash assistance
was distributed, representing over 9%
of UNHCR’s operational response in 2019,
a 6% increase compared to 2018. UNHCR
also engaged with governments and
development partners in the region to
foster stronger linkages between its cash

interventions and the existing national
social protection schemes and safety-net
programmes.
In line with this inclusive approach and
given that all refugees have access to
public health systems in the West and
Central Africa region, UNHCR worked
towards increasing their enrolment in
health insurance schemes by covering
their insurance premiums. However,
major gaps persisted, with limited numbers
of health personnel trained in emergency
response and in case detection and
management, as well as inadequate
treatment units, particularly in remote
areas hosting refugees and IDPs in
Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the CAR, Chad,
Mali, Niger and Nigeria.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
UNHCR operations in the region made
over 4,133 resettlement submissions,
including for 1,261 for refugees evacuated
from Libya through the ETM in Niger,
while over 1,246 departed to resettlement
countries in 2019. However, with only
around 2,800 resettlement places
available in 2019, the demand for
resettlement opportunities in West
and Central Africa considerably
exceeded existing opportunities.
UNHCR also explored opportunities for
local integration in 2019. The Governments
of the Gambia and Guinea-Bissau granted
citizenship to more than 5,000 refugees,
and in Ghana and Togo, UNHCR engaged
with the respective governments on the
possibility of providing long-term residence
permits to refugees.
Close to 19,800 refugees were repatriated
with UNHCR’s support across the region,
mostly to the CAR (around 12,400
facilitated returns), Mali (3,770), Chad (300),
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 87

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

and Côte d’Ivoire, where over 3,200 people
voluntarily returned, in line with the 2018
roadmap for return and reintegration.
Some 416,000 IDPs also returned to their
areas of origin in the Far-North region of
Cameroon, the CAR, Mali and Nigeria.
While reintegration progressed in the CAR,
Chad and Côte d’Ivoire, the deteriorating
situation in northern and central Mali was
less conducive for sustainable return.

Ensuring protection, assistance and
solutions in internal displacement
contexts

88 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Given the severity of internal displacement,
UNHCR was instrumental in assembling
key actors to address the underlying policy
and operational questions surrounding the
issue. For example, UNHCR organized the
Regional Protection Dialogue on the Lake
Chad Basin in Abuja in January 2019,
bringing together representatives from
Cameroon, Chad, Niger and Nigeria, as
well as key NGOs and UN sister agencies.
Subsequently, an updated regional action
plan was announced at the Global Refugee
Forum in December. In March, with the
Global Protection Cluster and the Economic
Community of West African States
(ECOWAS), UNHCR co-organized the
West Africa Regional Exchange on Law
and Policy to address internal displacement
with the specific aim to share experiences
on domestication and implementation of
the Kampala Convention.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
With over 1.65 million people estimated
to be stateless or at risk of statelessness,
reducing and preventing statelessness
was an integral part of UNHCR’s strategy
in West and Central Africa.
Since the adoption of the Abidjan
Declaration on the Eradication of
Statelessness in February 2015 by all
Member States of ECOWAS, 12 of its
15 States have now ratified both
UN Statelessness Conventions and nine
have established national action plans
to resolve and prevent statelessness.

Among other initiatives, UNHCR
supported birth registration campaigns
in Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Mali and
Niger. Sierra Leone removed gender
discrimination provisions from its
nationality laws which prevented mothers
from passing nationality on to their children
and Liberia pledged to follow suit in 2020.
At the October 2019 High-Level Segment
on Statelessness, of the 21 countries
covered by the Regional Bureau,
17 States made 69 pledges for action
against statelessness, along with
commitments from ECOWAS and the
Economic and Monetary Community
of Central Africa. Building on these

achievements, UNHCR continued
its advocacy for the ratification of
the 1954 Convention and supported
the development of national-level
mechanisms to prevent statelessness
in the region.
In December 2019, the first edition of a
francophone course on nationality and
statelessness organized by UNHCR and
the Catholic University of Central Africa,
was launched in Yaoundé, attracting
significant attention including from
academia and the media. 35 high-level
participants, including members of
parliament as well as academics and
humanitarian actors participated.

Delivering through partnerships
© UNHCR/6M.Productions

The number of IDPs in West and Central
Africa reached 5 million by the end of the
year, an increase of 30%. Given the rapid
deterioration of the security situation
across the Sahel, UNHCR scaled up its
protection activities for IDPs through
targeted assistance to the most vulnerable
people including victims of SGBV, shelter
and NFI distributions, cash assistance and
support to education and health facilities
in the main hosting areas. Building on the
conclusions from the Regional Dialogue on
Protection and Solutions held in Bamako in
September 2019 with the Governments of
Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania and
Niger, UNHCR and partners activated
seven clusters, including the UNHCR-led
Protection and Shelter/NFI Clusters in
Burkina Faso. In the CAR, UNHCR also led
the Protection Cluster while co-leading the
Shelter and CCCM Clusters, assisting
687,000 IDPs.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

MADE 51 initiative expanding
to Niger
“We have learnt to think outside the box,
to be creative and to transform simple objects into
beautiful pieces of jewelry,”
—Sidi, a Tuareg artisan, during a MADE51-organized
design workshop in Niger in November 2019.
Bringing beautiful, refugee-made products to the global
market, MADE51 is one of UNHCR’s flagship initiatives
and represents a commitment to working in new ways
with new partners.
It connects refugee artisans with social enterprises, and with international buyers. MADE51 is implemented in
collaboration with the World Fair Trade Organization, with pro-bono input from leading private sector companies.
Recognizing the enormous potential of the artisanal sector to Tuareg refugees, whose culture is deeply tied to
craftsmanship, with the support of the EU Trust Fund for Africa, UNHCR began expanding MADE51 in 2019 beyond
Burkina Faso, where hundreds of refugees are actively earning a living through their craft. Refugees in countries
across the Mali situation—refugees like Sidi—are now benefitting from the opportunities MADE51 can bring,
attending trainings, working with fellow artisans, and making new contacts.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 89

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

OPERATIONAL
HIGHLIGHTS ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE GLOBAL COMPACT
ON REFUGEES
East and Horn of Africa and
the Great Lakes
In Kenya, the Garissa Integrated
Social-Economic Development
Programme (GISEDP) seeks to strengthen
the humanitarian-development nexus,
allowing for sustainable growth in
Garissa County. The programme, which
was developed in 2019, builds on a
multi-stakeholder approach to enhance
investments and support socioeconomic
opportunities for refugees and host
communities, with a focus on protection,
access to education, health and other
basic and social services, self-reliance,
environmental protection, sustainable
energy solutions and institutional
capacity. The GISEDP identified a
number of flagship projects to address
key challenges affecting both refugees
and host communities and will aim to
drive Garissa´s social and economic
transformation with the inclusion of
refugees.
Area-based comprehensive responses
were an integral part of UNHCR’s
operations in 2019, ensuring refugee and
host-community inclusion in the context
of UNHCR’s humanitarian response. In
Ethiopia, UNHCR developed specific
advocacy products to catalyze partner
investments in refugee-hosting areas,
leading to concrete examples of inclusion,
such as by the Tigray Regional State, which
ensured prioritization in local government
plans and led to four schools in host
communities that refugees attend being
rehabilitated. UNHCR also supported the
Government of Ethiopia in developing
90 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

databases to link refugees to economic
opportunities in refugees-hosting areas,
as part of the Ethiopia Economic
Opportunities Programme, the first
Government initiative targeting economic
inclusion of refugees and development of
host regions.
In January 2019, the parliament of Ethiopia
adopted a revised refugee law, providing
for increased rights to refugees. UNHCR
supported the Government to develop the
law and is promoting arrangements and
guidelines for the issuance of work permits
and other documents for refugees in
the coming years.

Southern Africa
The New Finance Bank, a subsidiary
of My Bucks Banking Corporation,
in Dzaleka camp, Malawi, opened more
than 7,500 accounts for people of concern
in 2019, stimulating micro-businesses and
other entrepreneurial activities. In addition,
My Bucks also began facilitating financial
inclusion of refugees in Maratane refugee
camp in Mozambique.
In Malawi, Zambia and Zimbabwe, the
Poverty Alleviation Coalition, a global
coalition of 15 organizations convened
by UNHCR to help alleviate poverty
for refugees and host communities,
is scaling up the Graduation Approach
that benefitted 11,500 refugee and
host community members in the
three countries. The Governments of
Mozambique, Namibia and Zimbabwe
also made pledges at the Forum on
scaling up livelihoods through the
provision of arable land to refugees.

West and Central Africa
In Cameroon, a support plan for host
communities was formulated to ensure
inclusion of CAR refugees in development

programmes in the most affected areas.
A cost-sharing agreement between the
Government and UNHCR provided public
health care to CAR refugees, and discussions
were initiated in 2019 to explore the
possibility of expanding this arrangement
to urban refugees. The Government also
partnered with the ILO and UNHCR to
facilitate refugees’ access to the job market
by including them in the national labour
programme, implemented by the national
employment fund.
In Chad, the Government committed to
increasing the capacity of universities in
refugee-hosting areas by 10%, to deliver
work permits more systematically and
to revise the legal framework to increase
refugees’ land access to enhance their
self-reliance through more sustainable
income-generating activities. Chad has
also demonstrated a clear commitment
to the Compact's objective of enhancing
refugee self-reliance by integrating
refugees more systematically into its
national development plan and
by promoting a “villagization approach,”
which aims to integrate refugee
settlements within local municipalities,
with the aim of reaching the target of
fewer than 50% of refugees living in
camps by 2023. Four additional refugee
camp schools were accredited by the
Chadian Government and are now
considered national schools, alongside
the 108 others accredited in 2018.

CONSEQUENCES OF
UNDERFUNDING
With only 49% of funding needs met in the
Africa region in 2019, the consequences of
underfunding were many and varied, and
seriously affected the delivery of protection
and assistance to people of concern.
This meant the region had to continue

prioritizing lifesaving interventions.
Activities aiming at self-reliance suffered
from lack of funding; too often returns
could not be adequately supported; and
too many people remained stateless.
Despite continued population displacements,
coordinated assistance to refugees suffered
as well, with none of the regional refugee
response plans adequately funded.
Percentages of funding ranged from 46% for
the Nigeria RRP to 22% for the DRC RRP.

East and Horn of Africa and the
Great Lakes
Emergency response and core relief items
were critically underfunded, with refugees
who had access to adequate dwellings
averaging 48%. Support to survivors of
SGBV and unaccompanied children among
other persons at heightened risk was
limited by available funding. High
malnutrition rates caused by food ration
cuts remained a matter of grave concern,
as well as low access to sanitation.
Limited support to livelihood activities to
contribute to refugees’ self-reliance led to
negative coping mechanisms, compounding
protection risks. Overcrowded classrooms
averaging 1:130 children per class, low
access to education at 54% with critically
low enrolment at secondary school,
particularly for girls, and limited access to
vocational training were concerns.

Southern Africa
Operations reported challenges in
promoting self-reliance and livelihood
interventions to people of concern due
to lack of sufficient resources. In Malawi,
70% of people of concern lived below the
poverty line but only 2% had access to
livelihood interventions. In the DRC, lack
of livelihood support hindered not only the
self-reliance of people of concern but
also peaceful coexistence with local
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 91

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

Lack of resources also affected delivery
of education. In Malawi, only half of
9,806 school-age refugee children had
access to education. In Mozambique,
cyclone damage meant schools had limited
capacity to absorb displaced children, while
facilities in camps in Malawi and Zambia all
needed repair, maintenance and expansion.
Several operations, including Angola,
the DRC, Malawi and Zambia experienced
chronic shortages of food for camp-based
refugees. In Malawi, worsening food
shortages affected 44,000 refugee and
asylum-seekers in Dzaleka refugee camp
as food rations provided by WFP were
halved due to insufficient funding, resulting
in negative coping mechanisms.
In Mozambique, UNHCR faced significant
challenges responding to the needs of
approximately 250,000 cyclone-affected
people, including IDPs. Heightened protection
risks, particularly for women and children,
including increased risk of gender-based
violence, exacerbated the situation.
In Zimbabwe, lack of sustainable cooking
energy sources led to deforestation in
areas surrounding the Tongogara refugee
camp, resulting in greater risk of SGBV
for women and girls collecting firewood.

West and Central Africa
Underfunding affected assistance and
solutions programmes across the region,
with significant unmet needs in education,
shelter, WASH and core relief items causing
hardships for vulnerable IDPs and refugees
in the Sahel region. 55% of core relief item
needs remained underfunded, with only
37,500 households receiving them, leaving
thousands of refugees and over 3 million
92 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

IDPs deprived of basic assistance, many
of whom consequently resorted to negative
coping mechanisms including child labor.
In Burkina Faso, humanitarian assistance
covered only about 52% of shelter needs
and 48% of needs in SGBV prevention
and response. In Mali, only 7% of refugees
received cash to cover their priority needs,
and more than 49% of shelter needs
remained unmet. In Niger, the relocation
of over 4,500 Malian refugees, and a
further 10,000 in Diffa could not be
carried out due to funding constraints.

Across the region, millions of stateless
persons and persons at risk of
statelessness continued to live in
precarious conditions along border
regions. With more funding, UNHCR could

EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA 2015-2019 | USD

EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA 2015-2019 | USD

1,400

Limited access to self-reliance opportunities
exposed people of concern to SGBV in
all its forms. Lack of funding for biometric
registration hindered the access of
out-of-camp Nigerian refugees in
Cameroon to public health care and
education services. The same held true
in Mali and Niger, where refugees were
excluded from national socioeconomic
systems and funding limitations affected
their access to health and education.
UNHCR was also forced to limit its
efforts to enhance resilience and solutions.
In Ghana, UNHCR was unable to support
self-reliance projects, despite a planned
transition away from care and maintenance
activities, leading to many refugees living
in abject poverty and finding themselves in
a worse situation than at the beginning of
2019. In Côte d’Ivoire, only 20% of the most
vulnerable returnee households were
provided with very basic shelter assistance,
insufficient to cover their reintegration
and protection needs. In Cameroon,
many requests for assistance for voluntary
repatriation were not met, and in Mali,
95% of returnees did not receive any form
of assistance. Natural resource and energy
interventions were also significantly
affected in Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
Chad and Niger, despite the pre-existing
scarcity of natural resources available.

have worked with governments on
legislative reforms and sought to identify
populations at risk of statelessness, while
also supporting digitized birth registration.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

1,200
1,000
800
Pillar 1

600

Pillar 2
Pillar 3

400

Pillar 4
Millions

communities. In the Republic of Congo,
livelihood opportunities were required
for 30,000 refugees and asylum-seekers
dependent on food assistance.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

200

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE FOR AFRICA	
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income2

TOTAL

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

91,197
50,002
693,218
250,051
163,007
6,972
17,644
49,234

7%
4%
52%
19%
12%
1%
1%
4%

40%
35%
27%
47%
31%
22%
8%
30%

1,321,325

100%

30%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked1
Unearmarked
In-kind

Notes:					
1
Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.					
2
Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.					

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 93

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD
PILLAR 1
Refugee
programme

OPERATION

PILLAR 2
Stateless
programme

PILLAR 3
Reintegration
projects

PILLAR 4
IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
% OF
REGIONAL EXP VS
TOTAL
BUDGET

Expenditure

46,825,982
22,277,896
68,043,297
36,372,720
9,790,969
7,210,125
23,460,164
12,232,460
97,478,820
58,079,631
100,101,244
40,430,484
123,859,806
46,420,737

12,017
478,282
103,041
20,000
6,920
1,250,599
369,309
1,056,962
262,905
-

2,000,000
14,102,915
9,303,677
10,634,182
7,652,771
2,650,000
1,416,160
2,182,815
1,425,439

2,086,596
78,382
21,670,004
9,196,563
18,686,116
13,432,863
2,158,222
504,642
46,696,885
43,658,063
-

50,924,595
22,356,278
90,191,583
45,672,325
42,600,001
29,953,585
26,868,985
13,106,411
155,866,849
109,653,370
102,751,244
41,846,644
126,042,621
47,846,176

Budget

469,560,282

2,817,860

31,569,912

91,297,824

595,245,878

22%

Expenditure

223,024,052

742,175

19,798,047

66,870,514

310,434,789

23%

Budget
Expenditure

Cameroon

Budget
Expenditure

Central African Republic

Budget
Expenditure

Congo, Republic of the

Budget
Expenditure

Democratic Republic of the Congo
Regional Office1
Rwanda

Budget
Expenditure
Budget
Expenditure

United Republic of Tanzania

Budget

Regional Bureau for Southern Africa

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
% OF
REGIONAL EXP VS
TOTAL
BUDGET

2,941,881
2,333,930
23,206,892
12,751,269
13,194,964
8,842,095
5,830,197
3,867,193
25,189,536
18,064,242
21,998,310
13,939,350
7,720,481
7,146,549

117,973
93,828
1,110,311
1,064,879
285,006
204,319

-

2,197,091
1,608,350
3,111,623
2,085,260
3,404,003
1,974,114

2,941,881
2,333,930
23,206,892
12,751,269
15,392,055
10,450,445
9,059,794
6,046,281
26,299,847
19,129,120
21,998,310
13,939,350
11,409,490
9,324,982

100,082,262
66,944,628

1,513,290
1,363,026

-

8,712,717
5,667,724

110,308,269
73,975,378

2,761,700
2,173,156
18,030,041
13,053,748
7,078,136
3,841,354
7,697,082
5,733,794
11,041,618
7,831,328
8,282,250
6,540,751
68,952,051
57,460,534
34,607,605
20,027,855
22,142,262
17,603,535

3,300
3,278
436,361
222,071
6,431,205
4,146,049
916,541
547,826
2,564,750
1,531,774

3,088,491
1,755,474
7,449,999
5,300,932
27,086,020
4,576,414
-

12,047,849
6,752,547
1,600,000
1,262,029
14,306,824
8,355,597
31,371,611
15,680,153
-

2,765,000
2,176,434
30,514,251
20,028,366
16,597,833
9,742,878
7,697,082
5,733,794
11,041,618
7,831,328
17,332,250
13,103,713
84,175,416
66,363,957
93,065,236
40,284,422
24,707,012
19,135,309

Budget

180,592,744

10,352,157

37,624,511

59,326,284

287,895,697

11%

Expenditure

134,266,057

6,450,998

11,632,820

32,050,326

184,400,200

14%

Budget
Expenditure

2,148,895,380

20,471,468 225,204,907 281,324,688 2,675,896,442

100%

1,064,466,687

10,813,250

100%

Budget
Expenditure

Angola

Budget
Expenditure

Malawi

Budget
Expenditure

Mozambique

Budget
Expenditure

South Africa Regional Office
Zambia

Budget
Expenditure
Budget
Expenditure

Zimbabwe

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL
SUBTOTAL

PILLAR 2

SOUTHERN AFRICA

CENTRAL AFRICA AND THE GREAT LAKES
Burundi

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

Budget
Expenditure

4%
6%

67%

52%

WEST AFRICA
EAST AND HORN OF AFRICA
Regional Bureau for the East
and Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes

Budget

Regional activities for the East
and Horn of Africa and the Great Lakes

Budget

Chad

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure

Djibouti

Budget
Expenditure

Eritrea

Budget
Expenditure

Ethiopia

Budget
Expenditure

Ethiopia UNHCR Representation
to the AU and ECA

Budget

Kenya

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure

Kenya Regional Support Hub

Budget
Expenditure

Somalia

Budget
Expenditure

South Sudan

Budget
Expenditure

Sudan

Budget
Expenditure

Uganda

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

94 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

3,294,449
2,235,395
2,647,659
204,081
123,727,254
66,771,054
16,925,148
7,680,364
9,728,288
2,450,421
310,809,537
127,073,205
4,135,551
3,321,419
169,415,073
99,701,462
8,464,458
7,820,784
34,261,076
12,938,006
107,752,839
89,266,895
221,498,759
61,257,392
386,000,000
159,511,474

1,054,253
513,626
555,990
238,622
1,156,964
531,712
2,820,954
904,023
200,000
69,068

2,425,000
251,534
7,000,000
555,133
112,636,247
27,537,036
12,000,000
2,563,800
21,949,236
3,805,874
-

1,398,660,091

5,788,161

156,010,483

640,231,951

2,257,051

34,713,377

3,177,506
1,441,358
28,700,322
14,381,422
36,394,302
26,197,198
31,273,540
22,307,739
22,442,193
10,984,802
-

3,294,449
2,235,395
2,647,659
204,081
130,384,013
68,977,572
16,925,148
7,680,364
9,728,288
2,450,421
346,509,859
142,009,760
4,135,551
3,321,419
169,971,062
99,940,084
8,464,458
7,820,784
183,291,625
66,672,239
152,183,344
114,670,145
268,711,143
76,952,091
386,200,000
159,580,542

121,987,863 1,682,446,598
75,312,519

752,514,898

Regional Bureau for
West and Central Africa

Budget

Burkina Faso

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure

Côte d'Ivoire

Budget
Expenditure

Ghana

Budget
Expenditure

Liberia

Budget
Expenditure

Mali

Budget
Expenditure

Niger

Budget
Expenditure

Nigeria

Budget
Expenditure

Senegal Regional Office2

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

TOTAL

1
2

66,144,244 179,901,083 1,321,325,265

64%

49%

Coordinates activities in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Gabon.	
Includes activities in Benin, Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo.	

63%
57%

45%

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 95

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I AFRICA

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO AFRICA | USD

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO AFRICA | USD

DONOR
United States of America
Germany
European Union
Central Emergency Response Fund
Denmark
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Japan
Sweden
France
Italy

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

24,841,400
29,636,016
44,682,886
19,680,376
17,044,435

3,391,725
112,350
1,595,031
939,200

3,286,760
722,222
15,683,869

25,733,035
16,954,838
1,054,649
6,199,336
5,736,575

608,646

1,861,800

1,587,533

1,136,364
1,385,011

2,862,216
1,752,900

Canada
UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (National Partner in Germany)
Norway
Netherlands
Republic of Korea
España con ACNUR (National Partner in Spain)
Finland
Belgium
Private donors in Japan

6,612,010
8,213,168
3,134,666
1,359,276
1,112,347
2,275,313
4,477,660

223,465

155,150
2,400,000

2,275,313

Switzerland

3,019,800

Country-based pooled funds
Ireland
USA for UNHCR
Private donors in the Netherlands
Spain
United Nations Peacebuilding Fund
United Nations-African Union Hybrid Operation
in Darfur
Luxembourg
UN-Habitat
Czechia
WFP
Spotlight Initiative to eliminate violence against
women and girls
African Development Bank
Private donors in the United States of America
Private donors in Qatar
Private donors in Switzerland
Austria
Intergovernmental Authority on Development
Sudan
Australia for UNHCR
Private donors in Canada
Sweden for UNHCR
United Arab Emirates

96 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

1,624,292
1,776,375
3,607,210
1,819,262
466,667
1,241,738
261,506
2,209,438
2,206,111
1,885,084

1,449,573

181,480

1,664,237
168,316

ALL PILLARS

580,595,564
52,968,615
7,517,906
969,738
12,778,512

26,076,900

5,236,700
17,994,678
3,555,114
2,930,634
11,551,020
10,205,186
3,472,722
143,000
2,314,000
6,196,765
6,071,188
2,275,313
1,009,660
5,022,105
1,696,908
2,474,156
756,395
11,804
59,091
2,041,422

25,640,871
19,049,327
13,753,030
12,413,767
11,551,020
10,205,186
10,084,732
8,734,783
7,848,666
7,556,041
7,183,535
6,825,939
5,487,320
5,022,105
4,716,708
4,098,449
3,982,343
3,619,014
3,542,590
2,857,885

2,039,749

222,392

438,223
1,027,147
686,713

583,082
368,923
551,664
503,000

612,115,449
83,439,203
53,795,823
37,273,183
29,822,947

343,865

1,110,426

1,586,396
1,559,623
1,000,680
410,433
636,890
1,228,593
1,115,074
854,107
148,837
198,798
157

TOTAL

2,352,163
2,301,255
2,209,438
2,206,111
2,107,476
1,586,396
1,559,623
1,438,904
1,437,580
1,323,602
1,228,593
1,115,074
854,107
731,918
567,721
551,821
503,000

DONOR
UNAIDS
United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security
Private donors in Italy
Education Cannot Wait
Private donors in the Republic of Korea
UNDP

311,792
80,378
209,517
320,837
280,219
262,861

183,308
332,734
174,583
20,986
181,438
142,479
139,489
120,000

Private donors in China
Private donors in Kenya

105

One UN Fund
Angola
Private donors in Luxembourg

111,483
108,070
91,888
100,000
78,158
97,685
78,441
63,735
59,065

UNESCO
Japan for UNHCR

15,473

African Union
Private donors in the United Arab Emirates

20,000

Private donors in South Africa
Private donors in France
Nigeria
Private donors in Denmark
Malta
Equatorial Guinea

55,804
50,000
49,872
30,472
30,000
29,182
24,950
19,850
19,481

Private donors in Nigeria
Botswana
Azerbaijan
Fund to End Violence against Children
Private donors in Thailand
Private donors in Lebanon
South Africa
Private donors in Zimbabwe

14,000
12,896

Private donors in Singapore
UN Women

9,173
8,517
7,194
6,448
2,271
1,760
1,209
1,071
808
205

Private donors in Saudi Arabia
Private donors in Ghana
Private donors in Senegal
Private donors in Austria
Private donors in Kuwait
Private donors in Oman
Private donors in Egypt
Private donors in India
Private donors in Mexico

TOTAL*

ALL PILLARS

246,326,898

944,461

12,890,611

36,574,049

TOTAL

495,100
413,112
384,100
320,837
301,205
262,861
181,438
142,584
139,489
120,000
111,483
108,070
107,362
100,000
98,158
97,685
78,441
63,735
59,065
55,804
50,000
49,872
30,472
30,000
29,182
24,950
19,850
19,481
14,000
12,896
9,173
8,517
7,194
6,448
2,271
1,760
1,209
1,071
808
205

747,995,464 1,044,731,483

*Notes: 						
1
Contributions include 7% programme support costs.						
2
Includes a total of $27.5 million acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $11.4 million acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.	
3
Includes contributions earmarked to the situations for Burundi, Cameroon, the CAR, the DRC, Mali, Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 97

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

The Americas

“

The Americas witnessed an alarming increase in forced
displacement in 2019. With millions of people fleeing their countries
in search of safety, the absorption capacity of receiving communities
was increasingly challenged, asylum systems were overwhelmed,
and xenophobia rose. As forced displacement in the region is
expected to continue, a strong UNHCR presence and partnerships
through coordinated responses are more needed than ever.
—Renata Dubini, Director, Regional Bureau for the Americas

”

Life in Pintolandia refugee camp, Brazil.
© UNHCR/Vincent Tremeau

98 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 99

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS
IN THE AMERICAS IN 2019
BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

In a year marked by domestic upheaval, close to 5,000 people a day left the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. This brought to nearly 4.5 million the
number of Venezuelans who have sought refuge worldwide, most of whom
were in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru.
In hosting countries, more than 2 million Venezuelans received regular stay
permits or were granted asylum. Within the framework of the Regional
Inter-Agency Coordination Platform, UNHCR provided lifesaving assistance in
border areas to new arrivals, supported access to basic goods and services, promoted peaceful
coexistence with host communities, as well as access to fundamental rights, such as documentation,
education and employment.
Under the leadership of UNHCR and IOM, seven national platforms were established, bringing together
130 partners across 16 countries under the Regional Refugee and Migrant Response Plan. These

Hundreds of thousands of people were on the move in the Americas in 2019 in search of safety and freedom
from violence, persecution and widespread human rights violations. By the end of the year, some 4.5 million
Venezuelans were displaced worldwide. In many of these countries, national capacities were largely
exhausted and there was considerable social unrest in parts of the continent.

$8.5 million distributed in cash
assistance and voucher transfers,
of which $5.7 million was
multi-purpose
19,778 households received
multi-purpose cash grants or
vouchers for basic and domestic
items
48,294 people of concern
received emergency shelter

NICARAGUA
71,500

NCA

NICARAGUAN REFUGEES AND
AS
LY

MEXICO

469,300

REFUGEES AND AS
FROM THE NCA

the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.

247,100

exchange good practices for the protection of Venezuelan refugees and migrants, as well as their inclusion
in national policies and programmes.

Violent crime, insecurity and economic hardship forced thousands of people to
flee within and from the North of Central America (NCA: El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras). With more than 469,300 refugees and asylum-seekers from the NCA
registered globally by the end of 2019—a six-fold increase compared to
2014—and 320,000 IDPs in El Salvador and Honduras alone, all countries in
increasing number of persons in need of international protection.
UNHCR strengthened community structures and resilience, provided lifesaving assistance and
counselling services to displaced populations while in transit, and worked to strengthen asylum systems
and integration capacities in host countries, particularly in border areas.
Under the MIRPS—the Comprehensive Regional Protection and Solutions Framework—people of
concern enjoyed better access to legal and social protection, employment and education. For instance,
close to 3,400 households received conditional cash grants for education in Mexico.

$17.1 million distributed in cash
assistance and voucher transfers,
of which $16.4 million was
multi-purpose
72,412 people assisted through
the Safe Spaces Network in
Guatemala, including
4,000 children
24,000 people of concern
in 55 communities benefitted from
community-based interventions
in Honduras and El Salvador

NICARAGUAN AS
IN COSTA RICA

BELIZE

INTERNALLY DISPLACED IN
HONDURAS

2,300

HONDURAS
GUATEMALA
EL SALVADOR NICARAGUA

71,500

NORTH OF CENTRAL AMERICA

43,400

To SPAIN

COSTA
RICA PANAMA

INTERNALLY DISPLACED IN
EL SALVADOR

7,600

BOLIVARIAN
REPUBLIC
OF VENEZUELA
COLOMBIA

NICARAGUANS WHO APPLIED
FOR ASYLUM IN PANAMA

ECUADOR

To the UNITED STATES of AMERICA

BOLIVARIAN
REPUBLIC OF
VENEZUELA
93,300

BRAZIL

PERU

MEXICO

NICARAGUANS WHO APPLIED
FOR ASYLUM IN MEXICO

TRINIDAD
AND TOBAGO

REFUGEES

To SPAIN

HONDURAS

GUATEMALA

AS

3.6 million

PARAGUAY

EL SALVADOR

VENEZUELANS DISPLACED
ABROAD*

CHILE

NICARAGUA

To respond to the needs of IDPs in El Salvador and Honduras, UNHCR implemented interventions in
55 communities benefitting some 24,000 people. In El Salvador, 400 households received cash transfers,
including 63 young entrepreneurs and seven women-led community groups, benefiting approximately
70 people of concern.

794,500

BOLIVIA

BELIZE

COLOMBIA

COSTA RICA

8 million

PANAMA
North of Central America situation and Nicaragua

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

89,700

ARGENTINA

COLOMBIA

IN 2019

NICARAGUA
Political repression and economic hardship drove displacement from Nicaragua,
with most people fleeing to neighbouring Costa Rica. Since the start of the
country’s socio-political crisis in April 2018, more than 71,500 Nicaraguans have
sought international protection abroad.
UNHCR implemented cash and voucher transfer programmes and provided
legal, psychological and social support, or livelihoods-oriented assistance.

COLOMBIA
In Colombia, clashes between illegal armed groups over territory and resources
in border regions and the Pacific Coast led to large-scale displacement,
confinements, the killing of community leaders and increased humanitarian
needs.

increasingly, Venezuelans displaced abroad. The number of voluntary returns to
Colombia were also limited, with only 31 people assisted with cash transfers in 2019.
Over 89,700 people were forcibly displaced in 2019, bringing the total number displaced since the
signing of the Peace Agreement to more than 400,000. UNHCR worked closely with newly-elected
local and regional authorities to ensure the inclusion of IDPs in development plans. In Ecuador, more
than 5,000 Colombian nationals sought asylum in 2019, at an average rate of some 400 asylum
applications per month.

2,093 Nicaraguans received
guidance on labour market
opportunities in Costa Rica
2,238 households received
3 months of multi-purpose cash
transfers in Costa Rica

100,000 IDPs and host
communities received assistance
for registration and documentation
16,125 IDPs and host community
members received property titles
in 13 formalized settlements
2,450 newly displaced individuals
received core relief items

Nicaraguan outflow

Situation

NCA outflow

Level 2 emergency in El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico

MIRPS country

Venezuelan outflow

IDP initiative

Aruba, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Curacao, Ecuador, Guyana,
Peru, Trinidad and Tobago and Venezuela (the Bolivarian Republic of)

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

PEOPLE OF CONCERN

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

IN THE AMERICAS

4%

REFUGEES
702,000

40%

Less than 1%

18%

of the global population
of concern

15.7 million

people of concern in the Americas

RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
31
53% IDPs
8.3 MILLION
12% ASYLUM EEKERS
1.9 MILLION
Less than 1 %

STATELESS PERSONS
4,100

80%

24%

60+

7% OTHERS OF CONCERN

18-59

1.2 MILLION

12-17

23% VENEZUELANS

DISPLACED ABROAD*
3.6 MILLION

5-11
8%

0-4

UNDER 18

24%

*See footnote (6) in global populations of concern map

100 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 20 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 20 1 9 101

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

ACHIEVEMENTS AND KEY RESULTS IN THE AMERICAS
170,218* people of concern

APPLICANTS PROVIDED WITH
INFORMATION ON GOVERNMENT
STATUS DETERMINATION PROCEDURES

newly registered in proGres v4

45,959 individuals

In di v i du al s

Registration
400,000

biometrically enrolled

2,000

356,285

350,000

border monitoring visits
conducted and recorded

300,000
Protection
monitoring

250,000
200,000

356,285

150,000

118,174

100,000

58,894

50,000
0

23,433

22,720

2015

2016

Legal aid
2017

2018

2019

applicants provided with
information on government
status determination
procedures

2,115
SGBV

CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR

reported SGBV incidents for
which survivors provided with
a safe space, psychosocial
counselling, or medical assistance

7,046
$26.2

2019
$8.6

2018
2017

$4.7

2016

$4.6

Child
protection

$26.2 million
in cash assistance distributed

48,887 households received

$5.2

2015
0

Cash
assistance
10

20

30
USD millions

Basic needs

partner and government staff
received training on child
protection and children’s rights

Seasonal grants

Lifesaving support

cash grants or vouchers for
basic and domestic items
(multi-purpose)

Solutions

70,841

I ndi v idu al s

PEOPLE OF CONCERN PROVIDED
WITH ENTREPRENEURSHIP TRAINING

15,000

12,984

12,000

Core relief
items

454
Communitybased protection

provided with entrepreneurship
training

6,000

0

projects supporting peaceful
coexistence and benefiting local
and displaced communities
implemented

12,984 people of concern

9,000

3,000

households received core relief
items, including seasonal
support

Self-reliance
and livelihoods
1,653

2015

1,125

627

2016

2017

809

2018

advised on labour market
opportunities

2,029

2019

individuals submitted for
resettlement by UNHCR

* Registration in the Americas is conducted for assistance and protection
interventions, as well as mandate refugee status determination in the Caribbean.
In all other cases, registration is the responsibility of the national authorities.

Resettlement

102 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

9,965 people of concern

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT
Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum
Registration in the Americas is conducted
for assistance and protection interventions,
as well as mandate refugee status
determination (RSD) in the Caribbean.
PRIMES, UNHCR’s own biometric tool, was
rolled out in Aruba, Canada, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador and Guyana, bringing to
16 the number of countries using it across
the region. More than 170,200 people were
registered in PRIMES, with Ecuador and
Guyana adopting it as their national
registration tool for asylum-seekers. UNHCR
supported the development of biometric
registration and case management systems
in Argentina, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico,
Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela, thus strengthening
national asylum systems and refugee
commissions.
The refugee commissions of Argentina,
Mexico and Uruguay improved their
procedures to accelerate the recognition
of Venezuelans as refugees. Brazil granted
refugee status on a prima facie basis for
Venezuelan nationals and Paraguay carried
out group recognition of 700 Venezuelans in
December 2019. In the Caribbean subregion,
where most countries lacked asylum
legislation and systems, UNHCR undertook
registration and RSD. In Costa Rica and
Mexico, new national registration offices
were opened with UNHCR’s support.
Across the region, people in transit—
especially children, women, LGBTI persons
or others at heightened risk—faced harsh
conditions. With UNHCR's support, the
Regional Safe Spaces Network provided
humanitarian assistance and specialized
services to some 50,000 people of concern,
and produced a regional toolkit on

protection from exploitation and abuse,
used to strengthen the capacity of
16,811 partner staff.

Responding with lifesaving
assistance
To respond to unprecedented numbers
of refugees, asylum-seekers, internally
displaced people and other people of
concern moving across the region in dire
conditions, UNHCR prioritized its response
in border and transit areas, facilitating
access to food and safe water, hygiene kits
and other core relief items through direct
assistance, as well as cash and voucher
transfers for shelter. Through a network
of support spaces and strengthened
community mechanisms, the Office
provided people of concern with essential
information and lifesaving assistance.
Across the region, 48,887 vulnerable
men and women received cash grants
or vouchers for basic and domestic items.
UNHCR launched its targeted cash
assistance programme in Mexico in 2019,
and 42,931 people there benefitted from
multi-purpose cash transfers to cover the
cost of food, domestic items, and housing
and utility expenses. In Brazil, a similar
initiative launched in June 2019 reached
3,667 people in 1,297 households,
94% of whom were Venezuelans.
With worsening shortages of food,
medicines, basic supplies and public
services in the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela, community-centered
programmes implemented by UNHCR and
partners focused on those at heightened risk,
such as children and people with medical
conditions or disabilities. Solar lamps and
jerry cans were among the 33,896 core relief
items given to 79,584 people. With diverse
community programmes, UNHCR and
partners reached 495,687 individuals
across 54 prioritized communities.

Regional Safe
Spaces Network
Toolkit
Regional toolKit for pRotection fRom seXual
eXploitation and aBuse, seXual haRassment (psea/sh)
and inteR-agency community-Based complaint
RefeRRal mechanisms

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 103

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

Through the Regional Inter-Agency
Coordination Platform for refugees and
migrants from the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela, UNHCR supported a network
of 152 support spaces in Brazil, Colombia,
Ecuador and Peru, where more than
100,000 people a month received
information, orientation and basic
assistance to meet their most urgent
needs. Across Colombia, information
kiosks located in 30 sites provided more
than 90,000 individuals with general
orientation, information on asylum
procedures, regularization of migratory
status and other legal services and
referrals to public services. An additional
20,300 people were sheltered, and
20,000 children had access to
child-friendly spaces.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
Pending durable solutions, to foster
inclusion and promote access to livelihood
opportunities, UNHCR organized six
employment and entrepreneurship fora
with the private sector in Brazil, Costa Rica,
Ecuador and Panama. UNHCR initiatives
with UNDP and UNCTAD, such as the
Talento sin Fronteras (Talent Without
Borders) in Panama or its collaboration
with the Quito Municipality in Ecuador,
proved to be effective public-private
alliances that helped create employment
opportunities for refugees.
As highlighted in the Brazil Plan of Action,
cities and local authorities played a pivotal
role in the socioeconomic inclusion of
refugees and migrants. In Argentina, Bolivia,
Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay, UNHCR
worked with some 30 municipal authorities
to foster refugees’ integration. In addition,
UNHCR along with the European Union,
IOM and UN-Habitat launched a joint
multi-year project to support inclusive
104 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

cities for Venezuelan refugees and
migrants in Colombia, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador and Peru.
UNHCR supported two initiatives led by
national authorities in Brazil and Mexico
to relocate refugees, asylum-seekers and
other people of concern within the country
to promote inclusion and access to
employment. In Brazil, more than
27,200 Venezuelans were relocated to
409 municipalities, while 5,200 were
relocated to four cities in central and
northern Mexico (Aguascalientes,
Guadalajara, Monterrey and Saltillo).
In the region, 2,029 people were submitted
for resettlement, including women or girls
at risk, or survivors of violence and torture
among others. With the support of the
Emerging Resettlement Countries Joint
Support Mechanism, Brazil implemented
its first ever State-funded resettlement
programme, focusing mainly on refugees
from the NCA region. By the end of 2019,
Argentina had admitted 443 Syrian refugees,
the largest number among emerging
resettlement countries.

Ensuring protection, assistance
and solutions in internal
displacement contexts
The peace agreement between the
Government of Colombia and the
FARC—the Revolutionary Armed Forces
of Colombia—continued to face difficulties.
In parts of the country, notably border areas
and the Pacific Coast, insecurity prevailed
as a result of the reconfiguration of armed
groups and growing social unrest. UNHCR
supported 3,573 people of concern and 132
community-based organizations in the most
displacement-affected regions, many from
indigenous and Afro-Colombian communities.
As part of UNHCR’s support to Colombia’s
special peace tribunal, more than 100 leaders

from Catatumbo, Chocó and Nariño were
trained in accessing transitional justice
mechanisms. UNHCR also facilitated
dialogue and coordination between public
oversight institutions, the Government and
the Constitutional Court to ensure a coherent
national response to internal displacement.
As part of UNHCR’s strategy to support the
legalization of prioritized, informal peri-urban
settlements, 13 settlements were legalized,
and 16,125 people benefitted from property
titles.
In El Salvador, with UNHCR assistance,
the Government prepared, and later
approved, a historic new law recognizing
the rights of internally displaced populations
and ensuring victims of forced displacement
had access to protection and services.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
Under the Towards Zero Statelessness
mechanism, UNHCR actively engaged with
States, partners and regional organizations
to present pledges and commitments at the
October 2019 High-Level Segment on
Statelessness. Argentina, Belize, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Guyana, Haiti, Panama, Paraguay,
the United States of America and Uruguay
presented 32 pledges aimed at eradicating
statelessness in the region by 2024.
Furthermore, Argentina adopted
comprehensive legislation to protect
stateless persons, which included provisions
for their naturalization. In Colombia, some
27,000 children born to Venezuelan parents
are now acquiring Colombian nationality.
The country also deposited instruments of
accession to the 1954 Convention relating
to the Status of Stateless Persons.
The Latin American and Caribbean
Council for Civil Registration, Identity and
Vital Statistics (CLARCIEV) held its annual
meeting in Chile in September 2019, with
support from UNHCR, the Organization of

American States and its Universal Civil
Identity Program in the Americas. CLARCIEV
pledged to continue promoting universal
birth registration, the issuance of identity
documents, and action to prevent and
resolve statelessness across the region.
A comparative study on statelessness
and late birth registration is now underway
and is co-led by UNHCR, the Organization
of American States and CLARCIEV.

Operational highlights on the
implementation of the Global
Compact on Refugees
During 2019, seven Central American
countries, all members of the Comprehensive
Regional Protection and Solutions
Framework, or MIRPS in Spanish, (including
its newest member El Salvador), worked
collaboratively to expand the inclusion of
refugee and internally displaced people in
national development plans. In Belize
for instance, refugees and asylum-seekers
were integrated in an education initiative
resulting in 190 graduating from a State-led
programme teaching English as a second
language. In Panama, a labour integration
programme, Talent Without Borders,
was developed with UNHCR, resulting in
150 refugees and migrants, but also
Panamanians, finding jobs.
In line with the MIRPS, additional steps
were taken to strengthen asylum services
across Central America. In Costa Rica,
the Government decentralized its asylum
services, allowing claims to be filed at
border areas. In Mexico, the national
asylum authority, COMAR, created a
specialized registration directorate and
opened new offices in strategic locations,
such as Monterrey, Palenque and Tijuana,
to address the growing number of people
with international protection needs.

MIRPs II Annual
Report
II Annual Report
of the Regional
Comprehensive
Protection & Solutions
Framework (MIRPS)
2019

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 105

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

Delivering through partnerships
© UNHCR/Luiz Fernando Godinho

Responding to mixed movements in Brazil
The majority of the Venezuelan refugees and migrants in
Brazil, who numbered 253,000 by November 2019, arrived
through the Pacaraima crossing, in the state of Roraima.
One of the biggest challenges for UNHCR in Brazil was to voluntarily
relocate refugees and migrants from Roraima, where capacities were
stretched, to other states in the country.
The answer was the Interiorization Programme, created by the
Government of Brazil with the support of UNHCR and other humanitarian
actors. By the end of 2019, the Programme had relocated more than 27,200 Venezuelans to 409 municipalities across all five
regions of Brazil, where possibilities for socioeconomic integration are greater.
Through Operação Acolhida (Operation Welcome), a partnership between the Government of Brazil and UNHCR along with
over 100 partners including IOM, UNFPA, UNICEF, UN Women, civil society organizations and the private sector, a full range of
services and benefits complement the relocation. These services provide protection and support, offering the chance of a new
life to the most vulnerable Venezuelan refugees and migrants, either in Roraima or other states.
The agencies perform different roles across the three main pillars of the operation: border control and documentation,
humanitarian assistance and shelter, and the interiorization strategy. This is an example of inter-agency coordination and
partnership where different UN agencies including UNFPA, UN Women and UNICEF, in coordination with UNHCR and IOM,
leverage their competence and strengths to support the displaced population as part of the Venezuelan Refugee and Migrant
Response Plan.

required funding in 2019, leaving half
of the 2.2 million targeted beneficiaries
without assistance. While community-based
initiatives helped promote peaceful
coexistence, insufficient funding limited
the scope of much needed anti-xenophobia
campaigns, such as "Tu causa es mi causa"
in Peru. Inside the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela, UNHCR was unable to provide
legal assistance to people of concern
undergoing asylum procedures, survivors
of SGBV, and parents seeking reunification
with their children across borders.

Underfunding also hampered advocacy
efforts to prevent internal displacement in
Colombia. Funds intended to support the
Government’s monitoring of Colombian
returnees from the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela, especially those still in need of
international protection, were insufficient.
Reintegration activities for vulnerable
returnees received no funding, with the
exception of voluntary repatriation cash
vouchers granted to a few spontaneous
returnees who approached UNHCR offices.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS 2015-2019 | USD
300

“I was living on the streets of Boa Vista, looking for food. UNHCR provided me with shelter, and put me forward as a candidate
for the Interiorization Programme. Two months later, I moved to Dourados (in the State of Mato Grosso do Sul). Now I have a job
in a food company, and can rent a house and send money to my family in [the Bolivarian Republic of] Venezuela”.
—Daniel Andrade, 29, who, one year after moving to Dourados, was promoted to Supervisor Assistant.

250
200
150

Pillar 1
Pillar 2

Given the number of people on the move
across the Americas, UNHCR’s presence
in border areas was prioritized but
underfunding prevented UNHCR from
scaling up its presence at key border points
such as Chuy (Uruguay), Guayaramerin
(the Plurinational State of Bolivia) or Salta
(Argentina). In Guatemala, additional
capacity would have allowed new field
offices to open in Esquipulas (covering the
borders with Honduras and El Salvador)
and Tecun Uman (covering the border with
Mexico). Despite growing numbers of people
fleeing Nicaragua, reduced financial support
limited the ability to scale up UNHCR's
border presence in Costa Rica.
Lifesaving assistance reached only the
most vulnerable, prioritizing where possible
106 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Underfunding negatively impacted
solutions-oriented activities in particular.
With additional resources, UNHCR could
have fostered livelihoods opportunities
through education, vocational training or
self-employment support, specifically
targeting young people in border areas
of Ecuador who are at heightened risk of
resorting to negative coping mechanisms
for survival, such as transactional sex.
The Regional Response Plan for
Venezuelans received 52% of its

100

Pillar 3
Pillar 4

50
Millions

CONSEQUENCES OF
UNDERFUNDING

children, single-headed households,
or individuals with severe medical
conditions. In Peru, only 13.5% of households
in need of assistance received cash
transfers or core relief items. Insufficient
funding at the reception centre in La Guajira,
Colombia left 4,500 vulnerable people of
concern without shelter and assistance.

0
2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE AMERICAS	
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income2

TOTAL

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

14.580
6.813
130.673
56.470
22.522
1.020
3.479
16.096

6%
3%
52%
22%
9%
0%
1%
6%

6%
5%
5%
11%
4%
3%
2%
10%

251.654

100%

6%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked1
Unearmarked
In-kind

Notes:					
1
Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.					
2
Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.					

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 107

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I THE AMERICAS

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE AMERICAS | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS | USD

OPERATION

Regional Bureau for the Americas

Budget
Expenditure

Regional activities for the Americas

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

3,838,884
3,398,961
8,097,316
1,990,060

-

-

TOTAL

-

% OF
% OF
REGIONAL EXP VS
TOTAL
BUDGET

3,838,884
3,398,961
8,097,316
1,990,060

USA for UNHCR

Budget

Japan
Central Emergency Response Fund
Switzerland

11,936,200

-

-

-

11,936,200

3%

5,389,022

-

-

-

5,389,022

2%

Budget
Expenditure

Colombia

Budget
Expenditure

Costa Rica

Budget
Expenditure

Regional Legal Unit Costa Rica

Budget
Expenditure

Ecuador

Budget
Expenditure

Mexico

Budget
Expenditure

Panama Regional Office1

Budget
Expenditure

Peru

Budget
Expenditure

Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)

Budget
Expenditure

Venezuela Regional Refugee
Coordination Office

Budget

SUBTOTAL

Budget

Expenditure

Expenditure

12,182,286
10,453,592
26,540,616
21,495,813
32,767,555
29,599,249
24,005,906
13,711,815
4,223,291
2,189,552
38,025,536
22,253,400
60,565,518
52,369,900
63,738,571
23,546,734
20,496,332
14,173,698
29,465,000
19,206,576
6,644,574
4,615,941

981,548
289,722
-

-

16,963,267
8,638,012
-

12,182,286
10,453,592
26,540,616
21,495,813
49,730,822
38,237,261
24,005,906
13,711,815
5,204,839
2,479,274
38,025,536
22,253,400
60,565,518
52,369,900
63,738,571
23,546,734
20,496,332
14,173,698
29,465,000
19,206,576
6,644,574
4,615,941

318,655,186
213,616,269

981,548
289,722

-

16,963,267
8,638,012

336,600,001
222,544,003

45%

Italy
Republic of Korea
Norway
Spain
Austria

Expenditure
United States of America Regional Office2 Budget
Expenditure
SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL

1
2

Budget
Expenditure

Includes activities in Belize, El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.
Includes activities in the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Trinidad and Tobago.

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

IDP
projects

123,191,505
19,622,251

ALL PILLARS

27,821,055
390,192
21,400

6,330,356
2,534,952
1,006,040
1,948,237
2,195,188
500,000
1,557,751
1,297,003

7,227,166
903,016
699,915
2,008,032
935,437
1,592,575
455,927
574,977
1,472,629

950,097
1,141,553

238,118
1,122,334
13,895

Ireland
Brazil
United Nations Peacebuilding Fund
Private donors in Mexico
España con ACNUR (National Partner in Spain)
IOM
Private donors in the Netherlands
France
New Zealand
Sweden
UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (National Partner in Germany)
Private donors in Canada
Iceland

1,075,680
758,393
229,487
893,556
836,537
806,700
750,000
666,628
549,995
461,709
277,156
249,314

201,051
681,927
6,539

16,884
161,961
245,400
236,968

United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security
FAO

209,205

Luxembourg
United Nations Post-Conflict Multi-Partner Trust Fund
for Colombia

163,602
107,100

Argentina

87%
88%

Colombia

66%

Czechia
Private donors in Switzerland

Budget

PILLAR 4

Private donors in Brazil

NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Canada

PILLAR 2

Germany

Canada

Expenditure
Brazil

United States of America
European Union

LATIN AMERICA
Argentina Regional Office

DONOR

PILLAR 1

Private donors in Thailand

1,914,540
1,614,195
26,934,648
18,434,129

97,935
54,846
8,317,075
3,617,276

-

-

2,012,474
1,669,041
35,251,723
22,051,406

28,849,188
20,048,325

8,415,010
3,672,122

-

-

37,264,197
23,720,447

10%
9%

359,440,573
239,053,615

9,396,558
3,961,844

-

16,963,267
8,638,012

385,800,398
251,653,471

100%

Portugal
UN Women

106,323
101,523
78,480
74,783
68,757
56,818

4,230

50,300
3,176

UNAIDS
Private donors in Italy

100%

UNICEF

64%

Private donors in France
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

40,717
22,334
21,001
19,393

228
336
15,883

Guyana

65%

Private donors in China

14,938
8,897
3,542
1,371

Sweden for UNHCR
Private donors in Singapore
Private donors in Denmark
Private donors in India

TOTAL*

2
27
170,435,183

21,400

3,767,820

43,806,048

TOTAL

151,012,560
20,012,443
7,248,566
7,233,372
3,234,867
3,014,072
2,883,675
2,195,188
2,092,575
2,013,678
1,871,980
1,472,629
1,188,214
1,141,553
1,122,334
1,089,574
959,444
911,415
900,095
836,537
806,700
750,000
666,628
549,995
478,592
439,117
249,314
245,400
236,968
209,205
163,602
107,100
106,323
101,523
82,710
74,783
68,757
56,818
50,300
43,893
22,334
21,228
19,729
15,883
14,938
8,897
3,542
1,373
27
218,030,451

*Notes:
1
Contributions include 7% programme support costs.						
2
Includes a total of $1.8 million acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $29.5 million acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.	
3
Includes contributions earmarked to the North of Central America and Venezuela situations.			

108 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 109

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

Asia and
the Pacific

“

In 2019, UNHCR focused on securing durable solutions through
voluntary return, resettlement and complementary pathways.
Hand-in-hand with these were efforts to expand support to
refugees, IDPs, stateless persons and communities generously
hosting them. However, greater international burden- and
responsibility-sharing, in the spirit of the Global Compact
on Refugees, is needed to provide vital assistance to refugees and
their host communities, and to support governments in further
advancing inclusive policies.

”

—Indrika Ratwatte, Director, Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific

A Rohingya refugee watches over his great-granddaughter
at Kutupalong refugee settlement. While fleeing from violence
at home in Myanmar, his wife and two sons were murdered,
and he arrived with just one great-granddaughter.
© UNHCR/Kamrul Hasan

110 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 111

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS IN
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC IN 2019

MYANMAR
The majority of refugees and stateless persons from Myanmar are Rohingya,
for whom durable solutions and access to basic rights such as freedom of
movement, livelihoods and education remained elusive, whether at home in
Myanmar or in exile abroad.
In Bangladesh, UNHCR and the Government jointly completed the registration
of some 855,000 Rohingya refugees, including 784,000 in 2019, providing them
with identity documents—many for the first time in their lives—and establishing
a basis for their right to return to Myanmar. UNHCR placed considerable focus on strengthening the
protection environment through community-based mechanisms, including a network of community
outreach members who identified and referred people at heightened risk within the refugee population
to specialized services, disseminating as well lifesaving information. In total, 3,965 refugees were
referred to service providers and direct support was provided by community outreach members to
6,980 people, while more than 14,000 emergency preparedness awareness sessions were conducted
across the camps.

In 2019, progress in resolving the root causes of displacement stalled, meaning durable solutions remained out of
reach for most people of concern to UNHCR in the region. However, in collaboration with governments and other
partners, UNHCR made continued progress in securing the inclusion of the displaced in national systems.

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

CRRF country

Refugee camp

IDP initiative

IDP camp
Rohingya refugee
outflow

6,980 refugees at heightened risk
in Bangladesh benefited from
UNHCR’s network of community
outreach members

In Myanmar itself, UNHCR advocated the rights and status of some 600,000 Rohingya who remain in Rakhine State, 140,000 of whom are internally
displaced, as well as the protection of over 170,000 other IDPs throughout the country. UNHCR also worked with UNDP to conduct needs assessments
and implement quick impact projects to improve conditions in the northern townships of Rakhine State, home to most Rohingya. Throughout Rakhine
State, fighting between the Myanmar armed forces and the Arakan Army, an ethnic Rakhine armed group, led to a 25% increase in the total number of
IDPs in Myanmar.

ISLAMIC AFGHANISTAN
REPUBLIC
OF IRAN
PAKISTAN

Kachin State

BANGLADESH
L2

MYANMAR

Cox's Bazar

AFGHANISTAN

951,100
REGISTERED AFGHAN REFUGEES
IN THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

2.6 million

The Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees (SSAR) remained the overarching policy and operational
framework for strengthening support to host countries while creating the conditions for sustainable
return and reintegration. Entering its eighth year, the SSAR was augmented by a support platform under
the Global Compact on Refugees, focused on resilience and youth empowerment through education,
health and skills, and which prioritized investments in humanitarian-development-peace-related
activities in the priority areas of return and reintegration (PARRs) in Afghanistan. 500,000 people
benefited from UNHCR's investment in education, health care, WASH, and other community
infrastructure projects in the PARRs, jointly approved by UNHCR and the Government of Afghanistan.
With more than 400,000 new conflict-induced IDPs recorded in 2019 in Afghanistan, UNHCR continued
to co-lead the Protection Cluster and Shelter and NFI Cluster, working towards strengthening the
humanitarian-development-peace nexus and the long-term integration of IDPs. With 72% of displaced
households reporting shelter as their main priority after food, UNHCR rolled out a pilot cash-for-shelter
project, aimed at assisting vulnerable households to construct permanent shelter by providing
conditional cash (around $3,300 per household).

8,079 Afghan refugee returnees
assisted with voluntary repatriation
cash grants
In Pakistan, 22 refugee-affected
and hosting areas programme
projects were implemented,
benefitting some 280,000 people

1.12 million
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS
FROM MYANMAR

400,000

855,000

8,079

1

AFGHAN REFUGEE RETURNEES

48%
OF AFGHAN REFUGEES IN
PAKISTAN ARE CHILDREN

480,000 Afghan and Iraqi children
were enrolled in primary and
secondary schools in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including
130,000 undocumented Afghan
children
92,000 vulnerable refugees
benefited from the Islamic
Republic of Iran’s Universal Public
Health Insurance programme
through UNHCR’s contribution
to the scheme (including
1,182 refugees with specific
medication conditions)

MYANMAR

INTERNALLY DISPLACED
NEW CONFLICT-INDUCED IDPS
IN AFGHANISTAN

MYANMAR

Rakhine State

REGISTERED AFGHAN REFUGEES
IN PAKISTAN

AFGHANISTAN

Shan State
(North)

BANGLADESH

1.42 million

While voluntary repatriation to Afghanistan reached a new low due to
uncertainty over the political transition and the deteriorating security situation,
onward movements to Europe increased. 8,079 Afghan refugee returnees were assisted with voluntary
repatriation cash grants in 2019, including 6,062 from Pakistan and 1,939 from the Islamic Republic of
Iran. This was nearly half the number of repatriations recorded and assisted in 2018.

Level of emergency

784,387 refugees were registered
in Bangladesh

UNHCR, IOM and the UN Resident Coordinator led the coordination and implementation of the
2019 Joint Response Plan for the Rohingya humanitarian crisis with 132 partners, focusing on delivering
protection, providing lifesaving assistance and fostering social cohesion.

Entering the fifth decade of displacement, Afghans are the second largest
refugee population globally, while Pakistan remains the world’s second largest
refugee-hosting country (with 69% of Afghan refugees residing in urban areas),
and the Islamic Republic of Iran ranks sixth (with 97% of Afghan refugees
residing in urban areas).

L2

Situation

15,000 individuals in Myanmar
benefited from 16 community
infrastructure projects and
4 projects targeting persons at
heightened risk

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS
IN BANGLADESH

312,000
INTERNALLY DISPLACED

1.57 million
STATELESS PERSONS (600,000 IN
MYANMAR AND 970,000 REFUGEES
AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS)

78%
OF REFUGEES IN BANGLADESH ARE
WOMEN OR CHILDREN

1

Figure represents Afghans whose return was facilitated by UNHCR and who were processed at encashment centers in Afghanistan.

PEOPLE OF CONCERN

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS
44%

REFUGEES
4.2 MILLION

11%

of the global population
of concern

25%

1%

9.5 million

people of concern in Asia and the Pacific

RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
137,000

50%

33%

IDPs
3.2 MILLION

2%

ASYLUM-SEEKERS
212,000

15%

60+

12% STATELESS PERSONS

1.2 MILLION
(2.3 MILLION IN TOTAL*)
7% OTHERS OF CONCERN
632,000

18-59

5%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

47%

0-4

* Chart reflects UNHCR’s statistical reporting methodology that reports only one legal status for each person of concern. However the total statelessness figure
includes 1,113,315 stateless persons of Rohingya ethnicity who are also counted as refugees, asylum-seekers or others of concern in Bangladesh, India, Indonesia,
Malaysia and Thailand or as IDPs in Myanmar.

112 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 113

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

ACHIEVEMENTS AND KEY RESULTS IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
PERSONS ASSISTED WITH CONFIRMATION
OF NATIONALITY

862,923

I nd i vi d ual s

people of concern registered
on an individual basis
45,000

Safeguarding access to protection
and responding with lifesaving
assistance

Registration

40,602

37,500
33,274

30,000
21,966

22,500

20,644

20,644

18,540

15,000
Statelessness

7,500
0

2015

2016

2017

2018

persons with undetermined
nationality assisted with
confirmation of nationality

2019

$15.5 million
in cash assistance distributed
across the region
CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR

Cash
assistance

$15.5

2019

56,984

$12.9

2018

households received core
relief items

$29.9

2017

$160.9

20161

Core relief
items

$24.8

2015
0

50

100

150

200
U SD mi l l i on s

Basic needs

Seasonal grants

Lifesaving support

92,000

Solutions

Health

I nd iv i du a ls

VERIFIED AFGHAN RETURNEES
400,000

vulnerable refugees benefited
from the Islamic Republic of
Iran’s Universal Public Health
Insurance programme

372,577

15,000

350,000
300,000
250,000
Shelter

200,000
150,000

individuals in Myanmar
benefitted from 16 community
infrastructure projects and
5 projects targeting persons
at heightened risk

100,000
50,000
0
1

2

58,460

2015

58,817

20161

2017

15,699

8,079 2

2018

2019

The increase in cash assistance in the region in 2016 is explained by a significant
increase in voluntary repatriation of Afghan refugees from Pakistan that year
(over 370,000, the highest annual total since 2005). Under the voluntary
repatriation programme, returning refugees receive a cash grant to aid their
repatriation and reintegration.
Figure represents Afghans whose return was facilitated by UNHCR and processed
at encashment centers in Afghanistan.

114 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

7,651
UNHCR-facilitated departures

5,719
Resettlement

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT

individuals submitted
for resettlement by UNHCR

At the Global Refugee Forum, UNHCR, with
the Islamic Republics of Afghanistan, Iran
and Pakistan, launched a Support Platform
for the Solutions Strategy for Afghan
Refugees (SSAR). The Platform strengthens
international responsibility-sharing through
expanded partnerships and investments,
prioritizing support in core areas—education,
health, livelihoods, infrastructure, energy
and water—and across population groups
in the three countries to enable solutions
in Afghanistan, while easing the burden on
host communities in the Islamic Republics of
Iran and Pakistan. This includes investments
in humanitarian-development-peacerelated activities in 20 PARRs in Afghanistan.
In Pakistan, the refugee-affected and
hosting areas (RAHA) programme remained
a cornerstone of the SSAR. Since 2009,
some 4,260 RAHA projects have benefited
over 12.4 million refugees and host
community members. In the Islamic
Republic of Iran, the Government remained
committed to ensuring all Afghan children
could access education and enabled more
than 480,000 Afghan and Iraqi children to
enroll in public schools. In Afghanistan, a
wide range of projects implemented in the
PARRs contributed to the safe reintegration
of returnees and IDPs in local communities,
reaching some 500,000 beneficiaries.
Responding to the needs of the Rohingya
remained a priority, particularly refugees
in Bangladesh and those who remained
stateless in Myanmar. In Bangladesh,
UNHCR and the Government completed
the registration of 855,000 Rohingya
refugees, securing their identity and

facilitating the prioritization of lifesaving
assistance. A key success has been UNHCR's
distribution of liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) and improved cooking stoves. Over
107,000 refugee households in the camps
now receive LPG supplies and refills,
as well as 10,700 host community families.
A study has found that LPG distribution has
resulted in an 80% reduction of demand
for firewood by Rohingya households in
the camps, positively benefitting sustainable
tree growth and reforestation, and
reducing other risks such as sexual and
gender-based violence (SGBV) (see
Overview on Climate change for more
details on p.29).
In Myanmar, UNHCR and UNDP worked with
the Government to improve conditions in
Rakhine State. Access was sporadic, but they
were able to conduct needs assessments in
102 villages and implement 45 quick impact
projects in northern Rakhine State. UNHCR
advocated for root causes to be addressed
by implementing the recommendations of
the Advisory Commission on Rakhine State,
including on freedom of movement and a
clear pathway to citizenship.
Across the region, despite limited accession
to the 1951 Refugee Convention, several
governments pursued policy shifts that will
improve refugees’ access to basic rights.
In Malaysia, the Government is considering
plans to grant refugees the right to work in
certain sectors, while in Indonesia, refugee
children can now enroll in public schools.
Meanwhile, Thailand approved the
establishment of a screening mechanism
to identify people in need of international
protection.
Following the terrorist attacks in Sri Lanka
in April 2019, the Government ensured the
security of refugees and assisted with their
relocation, while resettlement countries
admitted 368 individuals at risk in the wake
of the attacks.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 115

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

In late 2019, when approximately
200 people from West Papua, Indonesia,
fled violent unrest to remote areas in
Papua New Guinea, UNHCR provided
emergency assistance through a local
faith-based partner.
In Central Asia, UNHCR successfully
advocated for non-refoulement in complex
cases and supported the Almaty Process
to address mixed population movements.
Throughout the region, UNHCR provided
technical support on mixed movements
through the Bali Process on People
Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons and
Related Transnational Crime. UNHCR in
partnership with IOM launched campaigns
to raise awareness in refugee camps in
Bangladesh on the dangers of irregular
maritime movements.
With two-thirds of refugees in the region
living in urban and semi-urban areas,
UNHCR’s community engagement was
critical to ensuring accountability to affected
populations. Outreach volunteer programmes
in Bangladesh (900 volunteers), Malaysia
and Pakistan (1,800 volunteers) enhanced
community mobilization and referral
mechanisms for individuals at risk.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
Due to protracted conflict and insecurity,
declining resettlement quotas and few
opportunities for local integration,
durable solutions remained scarce.
Despite the resettlement needs of more
than 100,000 refugees, fewer than
8,000 departed. Some 2,500 people of
concern were able to access
complementary pathways, primarily in
Australia and Canada, through
humanitarian admission and private
sponsorship programmes.

116 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

Just 8,079 Afghan refugee returnees were
assisted with voluntary repatriation cash
grants in 2019, nearly half as many as in 2018.
Reasons for the fall in numbers included
increased insecurity, which led to a rise in
conflict-induced IDPs; uncertain outcomes
from the presidential elections, political
transitions and peace negotiations; and
Afghanistan’s limited absorption capacity
and reintegration opportunities, particularly
related to land, livelihoods and basic services.
In 2019, 880 refugees returned from
Thailand to Myanmar, while UNHCR worked
with both governments to achieve a
dignified and sustainable end to the
decades-long encampment of the
remaining 93,000 refugees in Thailand.
UNHCR’s facilitated voluntary return
programme also enabled 1,070 refugees
to return to Sri Lanka, mostly from India.
Close to 500 individuals remained in
Papua New Guinea and Nauru as a result
of Australia’s offshore processing policy.
Approximately 200 people are in various
stages of the resettlement process, with the
remaining individuals still requiring solutions.

Ensuring protection, assistance and
solutions in internal displacement
contexts
With more than 312,000 IDPs across
the country, Myanmar adopted a national
strategy on IDP camp closure and return
in November 2019. With partners, UNHCR
coordinated protection responses and
assisted vulnerable households, while
continuing to advocate for freedom of
movement and non-discrimination.
In Afghanistan, more than 400,000 people
were newly displaced internally by conflict,
bringing the total number of IDPs in
Afghanistan to 2.6 million. At the same

time, drought and other disasters continued
to result in non-conflict-related internal
displacement. UNHCR co-led the Protection
and Emergency Shelter/NFI Clusters and
provided tents to 2,137 households, as
well as core relief items and sanitary kits
to 50,650 households. Through protection
monitoring, UNHCR reached out to
68,794 people of concern.
Armed conflict and disasters continued to
drive internal displacement in the Philippines,
with at least 294,000 IDPs in Mindanao.
UNHCR provided 2,730 affected families
with core relief items and supported
authorities with protection interventions,
capacity building and technical advice on
emergency preparedness and response.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
States in the region made 29 pledges at
the High-Level Segment on Statelessness,
led by Central Asia, where the nationality
issues of more than 79,000 people have
been resolved since 2014. In 2019, the
Kyrgyz Republic became the first country
to resolve all known cases of statelessness
on its territory, after granting nationality
to 13,700 stateless persons over the last
five years; Uzbekistan announced plans
to enact a progressive citizenship law and
grant nationality to almost 50,000 stateless
residents; Turkmenistan adopted a national
action plan to end statelessness by 2024
and accelerated naturalization; Tajikistan
enacted an amnesty law which will enable
stateless persons to acquire legal status
and apply for Tajik citizenship; and
Kazakhstan enabled all children born in
the country to be issued birth certificates,
regardless of their parents’ legal status.
A Kyrgyz human rights lawyer won the 2019
Nansen Refugee Award for his contribution

to the eradication of statelessness in
his country (see section on Public
Campaigns and Goodwill Ambassadors).
In South-East Asia, almost 60,000 formerly
stateless persons in Thailand have either
acquired nationality or had their nationality
confirmed since the beginning of the
#IBelong Campaign in 2014; Malaysia
began resolving statelessness among
ethnic Tamils of Indian descent; and both
the Philippines and Viet Nam are in the
process of acceding to the statelessness
conventions. Through the ASEAN
Commission on the Promotion and
Protection of the Rights of Women and
Children, UNHCR supported Member
States to share good practices and
research on birth registration, legal identity
and the right to nationality.
In Assam, India, a national register
of citizens exercise at its first stage
excluded nearly 2 million residents,
posing a potential risk of statelessness.
The Government has clarified that
exclusion from the final national registry
will have no implications for the rights
of individual residents and those
excluded will not be rendered stateless
or detained.

Operational highlights on the
implementation of the Global
Compact on Refugees
The Government of Pakistan’s landmark
decision in February 2019 to enable
Afghan refugees to open bank accounts
paved the way for their greater economic
and financial inclusion, in line with the
key objectives of the Global Compact
on Refugees. By the end of the year, close
to 3,200 registered refugees had opened
bank accounts in Pakistan.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 117

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

In line with the pledge it made at the
September 2016 Leaders’ Summit on
Refugees, the Government of Thailand
approved the establishment of a screening
mechanism to distinguish people in need
of international protection from migrants.
It is hoped that the mechanism will
regularize the stay of people in need of
international protection in Thailand and
lend predictability to the asylum process.
The approval follows a further pledge
made during the Global Refugee Forum to
strengthen the capacity and skills of its
officers to effectively implement this
mechanism.

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

CONSEQUENCES OF
UNDERFUNDING

With a long history of hosting refugees,
the Philippines pledged to further enhance
its policy, legal and operational framework
to ensure refugees’ full access to rights.
In 2019, in cooperation with UNHCR and
IOM, it continued implementing an
emergency transit mechanism (ETM).
By 2019, more than 350 refugees were
resettled through the ETM. In addition
to exploring complementary pathways
for admitting refugees, the Philippines
is looking at strengthening public-private
partnerships for refugees’ livelihood training.

Underfunding hampered UNHCR’s ability
to comprehensively deliver protection,
solutions and assistance to people of concern
in a number of situations across the region.
Activities were curtailed for two of UNHCR’s
largest humanitarian responses—the
Myanmar and Afghanistan situations—and
for several less high-profile operations.
In Myanmar, UNHCR provided 3,772 fewer
shelters than originally planned due to
funding constraints. Funding gaps in
Bangladesh mostly affected sanitation
and hygiene interventions, including the
construction of latrines and bathing areas.

Delivering through partnerships

Ayshea Bibi, a 3rd grade student, was
delighted with the construction of the
new classrooms in her schools.
“Our school was old and the building was all cracked, but
with this new school, we don’t want to miss a single day!”
UNHCR, together with the Government of Pakistan and
other stakeholders, partnered in 2009 to launch the
Refugee Affected Hosting Area programme, which entered
its 10th year in 2019.
Today, it is a cornerstone of the implementation of the
regional Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees in Pakistan
and plays a vital role in achieving the objectives set out in the Global Compact on Refugees. Thanks to
broad-based partnerships with the Government, international community, humanitarian and development
actors, and the private sector, 4,260 projects worth $220 million have been carried out across the health,
livelihoods, education, water and community infrastructure sectors. These projects have benefitted more
than 12.4 million refugees and their host communities, including refugees like Hafeez Khan.
“The people of our village and their livestock used to drink water from the same ponds, but after the RAHA
project, we receive clean drinking water at our doorstep”.
—Hafeez Khan, Afghan refugee living in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Province.

118 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

UNHCR/Zikrea Saleah

Supporting the RAHA programme
in Pakistan

Underfunding meant a range of activities
in the three countries of the Afghanistan
situation could not be met, in particular,
the ability to make a significant investment
in solutions and better futures was curtailed.
In Afghanistan, return monitoring activities
conducted by UNHCR identified hesitancy
by Afghan refugee returnees about the
country’s limited absorption capacity. A lack
of livelihoods, land, shelter, and access to
basic services were highlighted by refugee
returnees as the primary obstacles to return.
Funding shortages forced UNHCR to focus
on the most crucial needs among the wider
gaps existing in the PARRs. As a result,
the situation in many return areas, where
UNHCR was often the only provider of
assistance, remained challenging and people
of concern remained at risk of adopting
negative coping mechanisms. To address
protection risks and vulnerabilities, and to
ensure the sustainability of return in the
medium and long term, greater investment
in reintegration, pursued in cooperation
with development actors through a
community-based approach, was needed
to facilitate access to basic services,
livelihoods for youth, land, and shelter.

In Pakistan, the Government enabled
refugees to access national public service
delivery systems, such as education,
health, and livelihoods despite significant
challenges, including low absorption
capacity and variable quality of services.
The imperative to continue mobilizing
resources for the severely underfunded
RAHA programme remained a challenge.
In the Islamic Republic of Iran, UNHCR
was able to make important contributions,
however, rapidly increasing needs amidst
budgetary constraints led to stringent
prioritization and continued donor outreach
to mobilize resources to meet a range of
unmet needs, including support for the
Government’s progressive health and
education policies. Given the significant
efforts UNHCR made to support the
country’s Universal Public Health Insurance
Programme, this left little scope for other
activities, such as cash assistance, education,
primary health care or livelihoods.
Operations such as India, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Nepal and Thailand were forced
to contend with even more severe resource
constraints, resulting in fewer cash-based
interventions and limited livelihood
activities. Self-reliance support was
restricted to only the most vulnerable,
and outreach activities and monitoring
coverage were reduced for people of
concern residing in these countries.
These lower profile operations received
very little funding themselves and mostly
relied on regionally earmarked or
unearmarked funding, highlighting the
importance of flexible funding to allow
UNHCR to prioritize the most urgent needs
and assure timely delivery of support to
people of concern, regardless of their
country of origin or country of asylum.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 119

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

OPERATION
Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific

Budget
Expenditure

Regional activities for Asia and the Pacific

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

TOTAL

3,966,778
3,861,802
1,220,800
48,380

-

-

-

3,966,778
3,861,802
1,220,800
48,380

5,187,578
3,910,183

-

-

-

5,187,578
3,910,183

% OF
REGIONAL
TOTAL

% OF
EXP VS
BUDGET

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
REGIONAL
TOTAL

% OF
EXP VS
BUDGET

SOUTH-WEST ASIA
Afghanistan

29,176,984
11,994,053
98,916,706
28,824,208
72,947,942
27,455,373

558,163
109,894

71,184,200
30,243,082
25,695,563
8,149,667

21,344,496 121,705,680
18,397,052 60,634,186
- 98,916,706
- 28,824,208
- 99,201,669
- 35,714,934

Expenditure

201,041,632
68,273,634

558,163
109,894

96,879,763
38,392,750

21,344,496 319,824,055
18,397,052 125,173,329

41%
32%

Budget
Expenditure

616,690,212
304,650,723

29,789,457
17,331,470

96,879,763
38,392,750

33,739,292 777,098,725
26,078,751 386,453,694

100%

Budget
Expenditure

Islamic Republic of Iran

1%
1%

Budget
Expenditure

Pakistan

75%

Budget
Expenditure

CENTRAL ASIA
Kazakhstan Regional Office

Budget
Expenditure

Kyrgyz Republic

Budget
Expenditure

Tajikistan

Budget
Expenditure

4,336,318
2,072,225
539,101
439,423
1,317,877
859,456

1,192,531
800,747
274,735
194,728
1,015,585
789,617

-

-

SUBTOTAL

5,528,849
2,872,972
813,836
634,151
2,333,462
1,649,073

TOTAL

1
2

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

6,193,297
3,371,104

2,482,851
1,785,092

-

-

8,676,147
5,156,195

3,094,208
2,197,806
4,963,622
3,259,018
3,473,849
3,168,210
1,980,178
1,718,695

60,413
34,381
138,968
109,101
65,282
61,802
99,629
84,347

-

-

3,154,621
2,232,187
5,102,589
3,368,119
3,539,131
3,230,011
2,079,807
1,803,042

13,511,857
10,343,728

364,291
289,631

-

-

13,876,148
10,633,359

1%
1%

Budget
Expenditure

China

Budget
Expenditure

Japan

Budget
Expenditure

Republic of Korea

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC 2015-2019 | USD
400
350
300
250
2%
3%

200

Pillar 1

150

Pillar 2

77%

Pillar 3

Budget
Expenditure

Sri Lanka

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

16,017,407
5,987,085
5,066,458
4,720,896
4,071,276
2,889,271

150,824
96,416
492,988
483,625
31,489
25,264

-

-

16,168,231
6,083,501
5,559,446
5,204,522
4,102,765
2,914,536

25,155,141
13,597,253

675,301
605,305

-

-

25,830,442
14,202,558

307,553,397
175,667,944
7,862,241
4,729,509
17,088,602
8,536,180
6,973,421
1,695,663
409,301
346,519
18,669,082
10,673,085
7,044,664
3,505,922

367,107
62,874
860,594
149,535
22,230,162
13,087,970
396,338
95,997
920,504
634,419
934,146
510,754

-

- 307,553,397
- 175,667,944
8,229,348
4,792,383
- 17,949,196
8,685,716
9,520,417 38,724,000
5,123,148 19,906,780
2,874,378
3,680,017
2,558,552
3,001,068
- 19,589,586
- 11,307,504
7,978,810
4,016,675

365,600,708
205,154,822

25,708,851
14,541,549

-

12,394,796 403,704,354
7,681,700 227,378,071

100

3%
4%

55%

SOUTH-EAST ASIA
Bangladesh

Budget
Expenditure

Indonesia

Budget
Expenditure

Malaysia

Budget

Myanmar

Expenditure
Budget
Expenditure

Philippines

Budget
Expenditure

Thailand

Budget
Expenditure

Thailand Regional Office2

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

120 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Pillar 4

50
Millions

Budget
Expenditure

Nepal

50%

Australia Regional Office covers New Zealand, Pacific Islands and Papua New Guinea.			
Thailand Regional Office covers Viet Nam and Mongolia.			

SOUTH ASIA
India

100%

39%

59%

EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Australia Regional Office1

Budget

2015

2016

2017

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income2

TOTAL

56%

2019

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC	
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

52%
59%

2018

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

27,694
6,965
248,141
66,633
29,202
270
3,960
3,590

7%
2%
64%
17%
8%
0%
1%
1%

12%
5%
10%
13%
6%
1%
2%
2%

386,454

100%

9%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked1
Unearmarked
In-kind

Notes:					
1
Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.					
2
Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.					

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 121

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

R E G I O N A L S U M M A R I E S I A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

DONOR
United States of America
Private donors in Qatar
Japan
European Union
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
Denmark
Australia
Germany
Republic of Korea
Canada
Private donors in Thailand
Switzerland
Sweden
Norway
Central Emergency Response Fund

Finland

90,200,000

180,505,699

3,000,000

22,215,000

25,215,000

Private donors in Canada

2,257,540
8,810,613

22,157,643
20,570,749

Kuwait

18,317,460

255,792

18,573,252

4,207,959
1,211,268
5,751,354
3,710,613
2,813,750
5,027,988
3,523,834
2,563,051
1,604,511
1,576,580

11,821,420
11,949,780
1,114,827
3,400,000
3,229,483
6,335
1,506,024
1,983,013
1,027,984
134,912

16,029,378
13,161,047
7,760,969
7,110,613
6,043,233
5,034,323
5,029,858
4,546,065
2,959,470
2,663,178
2,395,892
2,352,941
2,224,694
1,950,585
1,639,226
1,436,364
1,325,765
1,267,887
1,201,923
1,155,671
1,137,656
1,122,334
1,038,740
807,203
557,414
523,013
516,206
502,758
423,714
372,664
327,758
325,662
292,514
268,097
223,447
176,120
150,931
132,000
119,451
100,000

10,644,356
10,259,309

5,474,453
935,270

107,000

3,513,794

267,500
565,556

787,788

326,975
910,846
2,395,892

40,840

2,352,941
1,112,347

1,112,347
1,950,585

New Zealand
Education Cannot Wait
France
USA for UNHCR
UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (National Partner in Germany)

1,639,226
568,182
1,271,848
363,846

Private donors in the United States of America

300,000
53,916
904,040

1,155,671
284,414

Belgium
Ireland

568,182

1,201,923

Italy
Saudi Arabia

853,242

1,122,334
1,038,740
807,203

China
Austria

557,414
523,013

Luxembourg
United Nations Office for Project Services
Private donors in the Philippines
Australia for UNHCR
Private donors in the United Arab Emirates

516,206
502,298
18,908
87,105
316,765

460
404,807
285,559
10,993
325,662
109,450
572
6,627

Czechia
Private donors in China
Private donors in Lebanon
Private donors in Kuwait
Private donors in Japan

183,064
267,525
216,820
83,183

UNAIDS
Private donors in Malaysia
Russian Federation

122 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

92,938
150,931

Kazakhstan

132,000
119,451
100,000

UNDP

Lithuania
Estonia
España con ACNUR (National Partner in Spain)

ALL PILLARS

81,337
525
75,910
55,556
55,006
32,823

17,979
87,461

15,785
47,520

Kyrgyz Republic
Spain
Bulgaria
Private donors in France
Japan for UNHCR
Private donors in Switzerland
Private donors in the Republic of Korea

41,786
40,000
16,392
34,131
30,313
5,086

19,307
1,229
587
22,300
21,928

Private donors in the Netherlands
Private donors in Oman
Private donors in Egypt
Sweden for UNHCR
Private donors in Singapore
Private donors in Italy
Private donors in India
Private donors in Denmark
Private donors in South Africa
Private donors in Kenya

TOTAL*

21,814
19,961
17,277
10,026
6,409
2,048
1,221
234
31
178,791,491

258
2,634
292
1,596

8,327,668

4,585,996

6,117,756

166,392,960

TOTAL

99,316
87,986
75,910
55,556
55,006
48,607
47,520
41,786
40,000
35,699
35,360
30,900
27,387
21,928
21,814
20,219
19,911
10,318
8,005
2,048
1,221
234
31
364,215,871

*Notes:
1
Contributions include 7% programme support costs.						
2
Includes a total of $4.6 million acknowledged in 2017 and 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $17.9 million acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.	
3
Includes contributions earmarked to the Afghanistan and Myanmar situations.

©Fuji Optical

Private donors in Saudi Arabia

DONOR

TOTAL

90,305,699

Country-based pooled funds
Netherlands

ALL PILLARS

Improving vision for refugees
In May 2019, the 15th anniversary of Fuji
Optical’s Vision Aid Mission for Azerbaijan
was celebrated by UNHCR and country
diplomats, and with free eye screening and
over 3,000 glasses donated to refugees.
Over 37 years, 169,446 glasses have been donated by
Fuji Optical to refugees in countries such as Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Nepal and Thailand and more. During an
interview at the Global Refugee Forum in December,
the President of Fuji Optical, Dr. Akio Kanai,
said, “Improving vision helps refugees live
independently and gives them hope. Even
though I am 77 years old, I want to keep going”.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 123

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

Europe

“

Countries in Europe demonstrated admirable solidarity
and support for refugees, as reflected in the 230 domestic and
global pledges made at the 2019 Global Refugee Forum. Important
steps were taken to ensure refugees could
access national health systems, labour markets and education,
while European States also showed solidarity with host countries by
receiving refugees through resettlement and
complementary pathways.
Local volunteers, Karmele Villarroel Labanda (kneeling)
and Begonia Herrero, an 82-year-old retired auxiliary nurse,
entertain a Syrian refugee family on a day trip to the
Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao, Spain.

”

—Pascale Moreau, Director, Regional Bureau for Europe

© UNHCR/Markel Redondo

124 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 125

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS IN EUROPE IN 2019
UKRAINE

Europe continued to offer safety and protection to refugees fleeing conflict and persecution, while providing vital
support to displacement situations elsewhere. The overall number of Mediterranean Sea arrivals continued to
steadily decrease. Turkey continued to host the highest number of refugees worldwide as the number of people
of concern in Turkey remained stable.

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

Low-intensity armed conflict continued along the contact line in eastern Ukraine,
meaning vulnerable people living near or along it had to contend with insecurity,
while movement restrictions and the suspension of social benefits continued to
have a negative impact on well-being.
UNHCR continued implementing its 2018-2022 Multi-year, multi-partner (MYMP)
protection and solutions strategy, working with partners to deliver emergency
assistance on both sides of the contact line. In support of national efforts to
repair conflict-damaged homes, a shelter assistance programme resulted in the repair of 1,330 shelters.
Operational constraints in non-government-controlled areas saw individuals given materials to repair
homes themselves, while NGOs and contractors undertook more significant repairs.

$1.4 million distributed in cash
assistance
2,666 people of concern received
long-term/permanent shelter while
1,133 households were reached
with core relief items
2,170 asylum-seekers received
psychosocial support

UNHCR's advocacy supported significant legislative changes which strengthened IDPs’ voting and
housing rights. Notably, an amendment to Ukraine’s electoral code facilitated their rights to vote in
local elections, while greater government funding for an affordable housing programme supported
access to adequate housing for 785 IDP households.
1 United Nations estimate of number of IDPs residing in government-controlled areas of Ukraine as of end-2019.

TURKEY
3.9 million

UKRAINE

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN TURKEY

2.5 million

3.6 million

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN
UKRAINE AND NEIGHBOURING
COUNTRIES

REFUGEES

328,000

2,200

98%

REFUGEES IN UKRAINE

SYRIANS LIVE IN URBAN,
PERI-URBAN AND RURAL AREAS

ASYLUM-SEEKERS

2,400

2 In line with its MYMP strategy, UNHCR protects and assists persons with specific needs residing in non-government-controlled
areas or within 20 km of the contact line in government-controlled areas; 81% reside in non-government-controlled areas.
While the number of assisted persons is not expected to change compared to previous years, the population estimate
increased following introduction of a new methodology used at the inter-sectoral level in preparing the
Humanitarian Needs Overview for 2020.

ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN UKRAINE

2%

734,000 1

SYRIANS RESIDE IN 7 TEMPORARY
ACCOMMODATION CENTRES

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

35,600
STATELESS

1.7 million

CONFLICT-AFFECTED PEOPLE 2

MEDITERRANEAN ROUTES
Some 123,700 refugees and asylum-seekers arrived in Europe through
Mediterranean routes in 2019—a 15% decrease compared to 2018. A significant
proportion (27%) were children. While fewer arrivals through the Mediterranean
Sea meant fewer deaths, an estimated 1,336 people died crossing the
Mediterranean Sea compared to 2,277 in 2018.
While Mediterranean Sea arrivals fell, more people of concern arrived in Cyprus,
Greece, Malta and Spain than in 2018. Arrivals to Greece nearly doubled,
representing 60% of all new arrivals to the continent. A significant spike in new arrivals to Greece
during the second half of 2019 exacerbated poor conditions in and around the Aegean Islands’
reception and identification centres. UNHCR supported the authorities to address the asylum and
reception needs of asylum-seekers, including through large-scale cash and accommodation schemes.
The authorities also sought to include refugees in national social services, and other structures.

UKRAINE

$102.8 million distributed in cash
assistance benefitting
121,247 people of concern
2,324 unaccompanied and
separated children supported
through guardianship programmes
in Greece

ITALY

85,187 asylum-seekers received
information on government status
determination procedures

TURKEY
SPAIN

In Spain, UNHCR worked with the Government to strengthen asylum procedures and improve outreach
and access to information for asylum-seekers arriving by sea. A community-sponsorship programme saw communities in Spain’s Basque Country play an
active role in expanding alternative legal pathways for admission through support for the reception and integration of Syrian refugees.

CYPRUS

GREECE
MALTA

In Italy, the fall in arrivals saw UNHCR strengthen its community-based protection efforts. To enhance social integration, work placements, as well as
vocational training and further access to education, were actively promoted for refugees.

MEDITERRANEAN ROUTES

National reception capacities in Cyprus and Malta came under strain due to increased arrivals and asylum applications. UNHCR supported the authorities
to reinforce national reception capacity, while improving access to information and assistance for people of concern. In Cyprus, UNHCR’s advocacy saw
asylum-seekers receive larger allowances to meet their basic needs.

123,700

27%

17%

ARRIVALS

CHILDREN

WOMEN

GREECE: 74,600
SPAIN: 32,500
11,500
ITALY:
3,400
MALTA:
CYPRUS: 1,700

Ukraine operation
IDP initiative
Mediterranean routes:
main country of arrival

TURKEY*
Turkey continued to host the world’s largest refugee population under UNHCR's
mandate, with nearly 3.6 million Syrians under its temporary protection in
addition to some 330,000 refugees and asylum-seekers from other countries.
UNHCR supported the Directorate General of Migration Management (DGMM)
verify more than 2.7 million Syrians under temporary protection, updating
registration records and identifying those at heightened risk. Cash assistance
was vital, particularly for people with specific needs.
Turkey continued to allow refugees to access national services such as health and education, with
UNHCR supporting overstretched national services. Strengthened operational partnerships with
relevant State institutions facilitated both the inclusion of refugees and peaceful coexistence of
communities, in line with the 2018 National Strategy on Harmonization.
With ISKUR, the Turkish Employment Agency, and the Turkish Labour Agency, UNHCR facilitated
livelihood opportunities and access to the labour market for refugees, including their enrollment in
national institutions for certified skills training.
* More details on UNHCR's response to the needs of Syrian refugees in Turkey are included in the chapter
on the Middle East and North Africa.

126 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

100,337 refugees received cash
assistance for protection,
education and relocation from
camps
5,123 refugees and 8,740 host
community members were
reached through the joint
UNHCR-DGMM harmonization
initiative through 48 events
in 31 provinces
10,558 people of concern
departed for resettlement, while
17,552 submissions for
resettlement were made
to 18 countries

PEOPLE OF CONCERN

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

IN EUROPE

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

54%

REFUGEES
6.6 million

14%

of the global population
of concern

Less than

12.1 million
people of concern in Europe

35%

1%

RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
223

70%

16% IDPs

2 MILLION

10% ASYLUM-SEEKERS
1.2 MILLION

21%

60+

4% STATELESS PERSONS

18-59

528,000

15% OTHERS OF CONCERN
1.8 MILLION

7%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

41%

0-4

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 127

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

ACHIEVEMENTS AND KEY RESULTS IN EUROPE

I nd i vi d ual s

INFORMATION ON ACCESS TO STATUS
DETERMINATION PROCEDURES

800,000

117,164
Reception
conditions

779,672

700,000

people of concern across
Europe benefitted from
improved reception conditions

600,000
500,000

2,324

400,000
287,604

300,000
200,000

123,441

100,000
0

21,405

2015

2016

2017

64,519

2018

Child
protection

unaccompanied and separated
children supported through
guardianship programmes in
Greece

2019

97,413
people of concern received
legal assistance

CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR
Legal aid

$133

2019

distributed in cash assistance

$74

2017

Cash
assistance

$33.8

2016
2015

$133 million

$104.1

2018

$11.5

0

30

60

90

120

227,471
people of concern received
cash assistance

150
USD m illio n s

Basic needs

Seasonal grants

Lifesaving support

50

Solutions

refugee-led and communitybased organizations supported
Communitybased
protection

I nd iv i du a ls

RESETTLEMENT DEPARTURES
TO EUROPE
45,000

100%

37,500

of refugees lived in countries
where they have the legal right
to work

30,000

27,450

22,500
15,000

26,081

29,027

Self-reliance
and livelihoods

18,175
11,175

46%

7,500
0

2015

2016

2017

2018

of global resettlement departures
were to countries in Europe

2019
Resettlement

52%
of resettlement submissions in
Europe included children

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT
Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum
UNHCR supported the region’s governments
in strengthening asylum systems to improve
the identification of people in need of
international protection. Notably, in Eastern
Europe, the Quality Initiative remained
a useful framework for asylum-related
capacity development. In Moldova,
an internal quality-control mechanism
improved decision making, while Georgia
saw a rise in recognition rates, from 5.5%
in 2018 to 13% in 2019, following greater
use of country of origin information,
among other improvements.
In Greece, UNHCR’s quality assurance work
with the Greek Asylum Service supported
the service’s expansion and national efforts
to ensure consistency in recognition rates.
In 2019, the proportion of asylum-seekers
who were accorded refugee status or a
complementary form of protection at first
instance increased from 49% in 2018 to 56%.
UNHCR worked with Turkey’s DGMM
to enhance registration and protection
procedures. Together, 40 e-learning
modules were developed in support
of training, more than 500 bilingual
support personnel were deployed and
the availability of country of origin
information was increased.
South-Eastern Europe (Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro,
North Macedonia and Serbia (and Kosovo:
(S/RES/1244 (1999)*)) remained an important
transit corridor for mixed movements
to Europe. A range of initiatives were
implemented to reinforce national asylum
infrastructures in the region with the
objective of strengthening access to

international protection and potential
solutions. The revision of a regional border
monitoring tool played an important role in
the harmonization of data collection and
the identification of protection concerns
related to access to asylum. Individual legal
counselling and strategic litigation were
essential tools in the response to issues
identified, with 27,000 people of concern
provided with counselling and legal aid.
While asylum applications in the region
increased by 19% from 2018, most
applicants abandoned procedures before
receiving a decision.
At the regional level, UNHCR maintained its
proactive advocacy on legislation, policy,
and procedures affecting asylum access.
It reviewed the implementation of its
“Fair and fast” discussion paper, which
outlined concrete steps for establishing
accelerated and simplified asylum
procedures in the European Union.

Quality Initiative:
Working together
to improve asylum
procedures

"Fair and Fast:
UNHCR Discussion
Paper on
Accelerated and
Simplified
Procedures in the
European Union"

Responding with lifesaving
assistance
UNHCR supported the improvement of
reception conditions in areas receiving
high numbers of arrivals, such as Cyprus,
Greece, Malta and South-Eastern Europe.
Working with national authorities, it promoted
safe and dignified reception conditions,
addressed critical protection needs and
ensured access to services and information.
Region-wide, 123,441 asylum-seekers
received information on government
status determination procedures.
Despite close cooperation with governments
and partners to enhance and maintain
minimum standards, reception conditions
remained concerning with overcrowding
in many countries. On the Greek islands,
36,435 asylum-seekers lived in poor
conditions in informal settlements. Some
$133 million in cash assistance, including

* Security Council Resolution 1244 (1999)

128 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 129

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

multi-purpose grants, was essential in
supporting the immediate needs of more
than 227,471 refugees and asylum-seekers
across Europe, particularly in Greece.

Welcome: working
for refugee
integration

More than a quarter (27%) of all arrivals
to Europe were children (29,400), of which
8,500 (29%) were unaccompanied or
separated. In response, UNHCR supported
the development of child-friendly information
materials on asylum procedures and
children’s rights within the child protection
systems of countries of asylum. Child
participation in assessment processes
was also actively promoted. In Italy,
UNHCR partnered with the Ombudsperson
for Children to facilitate joint
participatory assessments with more
than 200 unaccompanied children.
In Greece, a guardianship programme
implemented with national authorities
provided invaluable protection and care
to more than 2,324 unaccompanied
children. Only a small number of children
found solutions through placement in
semi-independent living or foster care,
or through family reunification or relocation.
As such, UNHCR continued its advocacy
for increased solidarity for this particularly
vulnerable group.
In South-Eastern Europe, UNHCR and IOM
provided psychological and social support,
as well as safe shelter, to nearly 200 survivors
of sexual and gender-based violence, while
identification and referral mechanisms
were established to support people at
heightened risk.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
Participatory and community-based
approaches enhanced the protection and
socioeconomic inclusion of refugees and

130 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

asylum-seekers across Europe, with more
than 50 refugee-led and community-based
organizations supported to implement pilot
projects focused on enhancing the
protection, engagement and inclusion of
people of concern. In Italy, PartecipAzione
supported 26 refugee-led organizations
to facilitate the participation of refugees
in economic, social and cultural activities,
with projects ranging from cultural tours
and story-telling events to access to
information and legal counselling.
Investments in the socioeconomic
integration of refugees and migrants
produced multiple examples of good
practice in Europe. UNHCR’s Welcome:
Working for Refugee Integration
project—a multi-stakeholder partnership
with the private sector, institutions and
civil society organizations—promoted
refugees’ employment in Italy, with
147 companies offering employment or paid
internships to refugees applying to the
award in 2019. Private sector actors also
offered refugees employment and training
opportunities and promoted their economic
inclusion by ensuring their participation in
private sector forums in Estonia, Italy,
Latvia, Lithuania and Ukraine. Private
sector actors similarly contributed to the
development of country-specific guides
for refugee employment in Ireland, Malta
and the United Kingdom.
In South-Eastern Europe, UNHCR also
remained committed to facilitating durable
solutions for the most vulnerable displaced
populations in the region. In partnership
with the OSCE, UNHCR supported the
implementation of the Regional Housing
Programme (RHP), facilitating beneficiary
selection processes and ensuring the
sustainability of solutions. Since the launch
of the RHP, 6,280 vulnerable displaced

households have been supported with
housing solutions, with 2,400 households
receiving support in 2019 alone.
In Turkey, UNHCR worked closely with
the Government to monitor the spontaneous
voluntary return of refugees, while
third-country solutions were pursued for
the most vulnerable refugees. In 2019,
17,552 submissions for resettlement were
made to 18 countries, while there were
10,558 departures. To boost their access
to the labour market, 3,571 Syrian refugees
were supported to enroll in formal national
institutions for certified skills training
in Turkey.
European States also showed solidarity
with host countries by receiving resettled
refugees, with a total of 33,824 submissions
and 29,027 departures to Europe in
2019. France, Germany, Norway, Sweden
and the United Kingdom received the
highest number of refugees, with over
22,000 resettled to these five countries
in 2019.

Ensuring protection, assistance
and solutions in internal
displacement contexts

and solutions strategy for Ukraine,
2018-2022”, UNHCR supported durable
solutions for IDPs and conflict-affected
individuals through the rehabilitation
of 1,330 damaged homes, providing
2,666 people with long-term and permanent
housing solutions. Community-based
initiatives led by 26 community groups,
comprising IDPs and host community
members, encouraged IDPs’ integration
and the peaceful coexistence of communities
and resulted in the repair of community
infrastructure damaged by the conflict.
UNHCR continued to transition
responsibilities for IDP legal assistance
to national service providers through
training and referrals to free legal aid
centres. This resulted in 3,000 IDPs
receiving primary and secondary legal
aid—a 15% increase compared to 2018.
Plans to transition Shelter and NFI Cluster
coordination to government counterparts
were delayed, however, due to rotation
in government personnel. Efforts will
continue in 2020.

Protracted internal displacement remained
a concern in Eastern Europe. UNHCR
collaborated with governments in support
of IDPs’ rights and solutions, including
to the right to return home in safety
and dignity.

UNHCR's advocacy saw positive
developments for IDP voting and housing
rights. The Ukrainian Parliament amended
the electoral code, giving IDPs the right
to vote in local elections, while the
Government increased funds for an
affordable housing programme that
addressed the needs of at least 785 IDP
families in 2019.

In Ukraine, some 734,000 people continued
to be internally displaced. Those living
along the contact line between government
and non-government-controlled areas were
most affected by risks to their physical
security, movement restrictions and the
suspension of social benefits. In line with
the “Multi-year, multi-partner protection

With the strengthening of IDPs’ access to
national services in government-controlled
areas, UNHCR focused its work in
locations with high needs and fewer
service providers, including along the
contact line. Targeted support was
provided to conflict-affected individuals
unable to flee because of their specific

Voting rights
of internally
displaced persons
in Ukraine

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 131

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

needs and high vulnerability. Notably,
a pilot voluntary relocation programme
enabled 14 families to relocate away from
dangerous areas close to the contact line.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
UNHCR-UNICEF
joint coalition on
every child’s right
to a nationality

Affected communities helped UNHCR,
authorities and partner organizations
identify and protect stateless persons and
populations most at risk. For example,
in Bosnia and Herzegovina, members of
the Roma community worked with UNHCR,
municipal authorities and legal aid partners
to identify and support people in obtaining
birth registration and confirming their
citizenship. Of the 54 birth registrations
it supported in 2019, 37 led to citizenship
confirmation for Roma individuals.
UNHCR continued collaborating with
partners, including OSCE and the European
Network on Statelessness, which led to the
third OSCE-UNHCR practical seminar on
sharing good practices on birth registration
and childhood statelessness. To address

132 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

childhood statelessness, the Latvian
Parliament passed a law providing
automatic citizenship to children born to
“non-citizens” of Latvia after 1 January
2020. A UNHCR-UNICEF advocacy brief on
“Ending childhood statelessness in Europe”
called on States and regional organizations
to take urgent action to ensure no child
was born, or remains, stateless in Europe.
In line with UNHCR’s joint coalition
with UNICEF on every child’s right to a
nationality, implementation strategies
were developed and pursued in Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro,
North Macedonia, Norway, and Serbia
(and Kosovo: S/RES/1244 (1999)).

Operational highlights on the
implementation of the Global
Compact on Refugees
The Humanitarian Corridors for Refugees
programme, which won the entry from
Europe to UNHCR's Nansen Refugee
Award, is a unique partnership between
Italian faith-based organizations and
UNHCR. Together with the Ministries
of Foreign Affairs and the Interior, the
Community of Sant'Egidio, Caritas Italiana,
the Federation of Evangelical Churches
in Italy and the Waldensian Table
supported refugees resettled in Italy to
rebuild their lives. Refugees were hosted
in apartments, participated in language
courses and received social assistance
and legal support, all through the private
funds of the organizations that manage
the programme. At the end of 2019,
more than 2,000 vulnerable people had
been transferred to Italy as part of the
programme, mainly Syrian and Eritrean
refugees from Lebanon and Ethiopia,
respectively. Such sponsorship programmes
represent a critical lifeline to extremely
vulnerable refugees who cannot rebuild
their lives in a host country or return home.

Research on care arrangements for
unaccompanied and separated children
UNHCR, along with IOM and UNICEF,
collaborated with the Lumos Foundation
to map alternative care arrangements for
unaccompanied and separated children
in Bulgaria, France, Greece, Italy,
the Netherlands and Spain. This process
highlighted challenges and positive
practices regarding the reception of
unaccompanied children arriving in Europe.
Given the concerns around institutional

care identified through this research,
concrete recommendations have been
made on the importance of alternative
family and community-based care
arrangements. Looking ahead to 2020 and
building on positive practices in Greece
and the Netherlands, UNHCR will continue
to work closely with sister agencies
and national authorities to strengthen
appropriate care arrangements for
unaccompanied and separated children,
including foster care and supported
independent living.

Delivering through partnerships
© UNHCR/Socrates Baltagiannis

Humanitarian
Corridors: Nansen
Refugee Award
winner for Europe

With some 528,000 stateless persons
in the region, UNHCR supported
governments, lawmakers and civil society
actors in the search for solutions. The
October 2019 High-Level Segment on
Statelessness saw 40 pledges by European
countries, including the adoption of
laws preventing statelessness at birth,
improving access to civil registration and
documentation, establishing procedures
to identify and protect stateless persons,
and accessions to the statelessness
conventions. Malta and North Macedonia
delivered on their commitments, with Malta
acceding to the 1954 Convention relating
to the Status of Stateless Persons and
North Macedonia to the 1961 Convention
on the Reduction of Statelessness
(on 3 January 2020).

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

Lesvos football team is dream come
true for Congolese teenager
Throughout his childhood, wherever he was,
Francis played football. At the Moria reception centre
on Lesvos in Greece, where he spent his first months,
Francis joined Cosmos FC, an amateur team of
asylum-seekers and refugees gaining a reputation
for beating local clubs in friendly matchups.
Cosmos—which means “world” in Greek—was set up in
September 2016 by George Patlakas, a retired football
player, to help asylum-seekers take their minds off
Moria’s overcrowded conditions and ease the pressures
of waiting for a decision on their asylum claim.
“Football helps them escape the daily life of the camp, they can stay fit and feel creative.”
—George Patlakas, founder of Cosmos FC.
In line with the Global Compact on Refugees and the call for collaboration with new partners, UNHCR supported
the UEFA Foundation for Children identify the right partners and locations for socio-educational and sports
projects to help improve refugee children’s lives. Through its “Live Together” programme, the UEFA Foundation
supports projects for unaccompanied children, adolescents and young adult refugees on Lesbos. In 2019, UEFA
partnered with Cosmos FC to provide regular training and friendly matches against local clubs, helping give a
sense of normality and stability for young refugees.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 133

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

In 2019, Europe received a large amount
of tightly earmarked funding for Greece
and, to a lesser extent, Turkey and Ukraine.
More than 83% of UNHCR's 2019 budget
for operations in Europe was allocated to
these three operations where contributions
were essential in ensuring continuity in the
response to the needs of highly vulnerable
individuals.
Nevertheless, underfunding of the
multi-partner response in Ukraine limited
UNHCR’s support for reconstruction
efforts, with the shelter needs of
approximately 8,000 households in
non-government-controlled areas unmet
by collective response efforts.

With the partnerships with the Dutch and
Swedish Postcode Lotteries dating back to 2002 and 2009
respectively, these are two of the longest-serving and
most loyal partners to UNHCR. Millions of refugees
benefit from the lifesaving support provided thanks to
their funding.
In 2019, the support from both lotteries amounted to more
than $5 million, combining an annual core
unearmarked contribution and project-based
grants focusing on supporting refugee
education and improved sustainability.

134 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE 2015-2019 | USD
600

500

400

In other operations, UNHCR continued
to rely on flexible funding to respond
effectively to emerging and protracted
needs across Europe. In line with the
regional strategy, these interventions
focused on strengthening asylum systems,
supporting community-based protection
initiatives and facilitating integration of
people of concern across Europe.

300
Pillar 1

200

Pillar 2
Pillar 3
Pillar 4

100

© Sweden for UNHCR/Alina Wass Widinghoff

Millions of refugees worldwide
supported by Dutch and Swedish
Postcode Lotteries

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

In Greece, while earmarked funding
ensured the continuity of large-scale
accommodation and cash interventions,
financial resources did not allow investment
in essential economic inclusion activities
needed to phase-out accommodation and
cash support. In Turkey, finance for cash
interventions limited the amount of assistance
provided to individuals with specific needs,
while just 10,558 of the 360,000 most
vulnerable Syrian refugees needing
resettlement in Turkey departed in 2019.

Millions

CONSEQUENCES OF
UNDERFUNDING

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

0

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE FOR EUROPE
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income2

TOTAL

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

32,560
7,350
366,202
28,076
54,966
1,519
1,940
4,664

7%
1%
74%
6%
11%
0%
0%
1%

14%
5%
14%
5%
10%
5%
1%
3%

497,275

100%

11%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked1
Unearmarked
In-kind

Notes:					
1
Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.					
2
Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.					

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 135

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I EUROPE

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE | USD

OPERATION
Regional Bureau for Europe

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
REGIONAL
TOTAL

Expenditure

194,616
18,847

-

-

4,238,700
1,769,850
4,508,748
1,542,982

Budget

8,552,833

194,616

-

-

8,747,448

1%

Expenditure

3,293,984

18,847

-

-

3,312,831

1%

Budget

% OF
EXP VS
BUDGET

DONOR
European Union

4,238,700
1,769,850
4,314,133
1,524,134

Budget
Expenditure

Regional activities for Europe

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO EUROPE | USD

United States of America
Italy
Germany
Japan

SUBTOTAL

European Economic Area

38%

Education Cannot Wait

EASTERN EUROPE
Belarus

Budget
Expenditure

Georgia Regional Office1

Budget
Expenditure

Russian Federation

Budget
Expenditure

Turkey

Budget
Expenditure

Ukraine

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (National Partner in Germany)

Budget
Expenditure

1,906,078
1,286,672
11,006,663
6,883,235
5,585,930
3,710,639
390,547,279
123,500,373
4,656,445
3,927,417

47,888
45,603
647,656
425,059
875,275
804,801
5,000
1,620
910,783
551,339

-

France

1,953,966
1,332,275
4,277,545 15,931,864
2,623,886
9,932,180
6,461,205
4,515,440
- 390,552,279
- 123,501,993
22,215,123 27,782,352
15,133,245 19,612,000

Norway
Republic of Korea
IOM
Spain

United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland

413,702,397

2,486,602

-

26,492,668 442,681,667

53%

139,308,336

1,828,422

-

17,757,131 158,893,888

32%

France

Budget
Expenditure

Germany

Budget
Expenditure

Greece

Budget
Expenditure

Hungary Regional Office3

Budget
Expenditure

Italy Regional Office4

Budget
Expenditure

Sweden Regional Office5

Budget
Expenditure

United Kingdom

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

833,082
358,381
213,710
173,087
37,956
36,448
50,000
32,682
467,633
398,338
139,111
121,560
434,803
344,018
569,163
534,571

255,925
206,313
-

- 17,174,925
12,757,208
3,559,401
3,006,139
2,349,195
2,090,337
- 271,811,912
- 253,172,900
- 14,171,452
- 11,184,979
- 31,011,527
- 23,630,764
5,463,255
3,738,005
2,678,929
2,370,454

345,219,214
309,745,390

2,745,456
1,999,084

255,925
206,313

- 348,220,595
- 311,950,786

ALL PILLARS

Private donors in France

51,000,000
98,172
1,714,523
839,286
34,443

Ireland

500,000
928,181

275,224

366,038
569,909
300,000

250,000
549,995

446,849
54,778

60
341,225
262,333

253,104
125,000

100,807
225,479

213,764
185,463
165,366
151,618
115,942
103,521

Serbia
Romania
Liechtenstein
Private donors in Switzerland

100,806
100,000
99,600
98,000
5,688
87,000
82,745

USA for UNHCR
Armenia
Private donors in Italy

91,235

Poland
Montenegro
Malta

51,195
38,100
34,130

Czechia
Lithuania

42%
63%

27,503

Latvia

90%

Private donors in Austria

383

22,186
10,274

Luxembourg

SOUTH-EASTERN EUROPE
Bosnia and Herzegovina6

Azerbaijan
Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

26,708,186
20,180,273

4,793,174
2,937,377

-

-

26,708,186
20,180,273

4,793,174
2,937,377

-

794,182,630
472,527,982

10,219,848
6,783,729

255,925
206,313

-

31,501,360
23,117,650

Private donors in China
Private donors in the Netherlands

31,501,360
23,117,650

4%
5%

26,492,668 831,151,070
17,757,131 497,275,155

100%
100%

Private donors in Canada

73%

60%

TOTAL*

7,200
3,297
1,106
437
371,515,235

294,415,661
100,983,283
8,396,920
7,842,256
3,517,857
2,739,448
1,472,223
1,403,422
1,389,232
1,315,000

700,000
1,130,097

Private donors in Japan
Switzerland

33,525

1,315,000

Estonia
España con ACNUR (National Partner in Spain)

TOTAL

2,131,673

Hungary

36%

Sweden for UNHCR

16,341,843
12,398,828
3,345,691
2,833,052
2,311,240
2,053,889
271,761,912
253,140,218
13,447,895
10,580,329
30,872,416
23,509,204
5,028,452
3,393,987
2,109,766
1,835,882

292,283,988
49,983,283
8,298,748
6,127,733
2,678,571
2,739,448
1,404,255
1,403,422
1,389,232

Sweden

Expenditure

Expenditure

IDP
projects

Russian Federation

Budget

Budget

PILLAR 4

Stateless
programme

Canada

NORTHERN, WESTERN, CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN EUROPE
Belgium Regional Office2

PILLAR 2

Refugee
programme

Central Emergency Response Fund

Austria
SUBTOTAL

PILLAR 1

7

300,000

5,151,925

55,683,783

1,200,000
1,130,097
928,181
641,262
569,909
550,000
549,995
446,909
396,003
262,333
253,104
225,807
225,479
213,764
185,463
165,366
151,618
115,942
103,521
100,806
100,000
99,600
98,000
96,924
87,000
82,745
51,195
38,100
34,130
27,503
22,569
10,274
7,200
3,297
1,112
437
432,650,943

*Notes:
1 Contributions include 7% programme support costs.					
2 Includes a total of $219,886 acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $107,000 acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.	
3 Includes contributions earmarked to the Central Mediterranean situation.							

1

Includes activities in Armenia and Azerbaijan.						
Includes activities in Austria, Ireland, the Netherlands and the office for Switzerland and Liechtenstein.				
Includes activities in Bulgaria, Croatia, Czechia, Republic of Moldova, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.	
4
Includes activities in Cyprus, Malta and Spain.						
5
Includes activities in Latvia and Lithuania.						
6
Includes activities in Albania, Montenegro, North Macedonia, and Serbia and Kosovo (S/RES/1244 (1999)).					
2
3

136 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 137

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

The Middle East
and North Africa

“

The scale of displacement across the Middle East and
North Africa remained alarming throughout the year, as violence,
political instability and sectarian strife continued unabated.
By the end of 2019, the region hosted nearly 16 million people of
concern to UNHCR. The Office worked hard to address the
challenges in the region, relying on the solidarity and compassion
Ahmed, 80, fled his home in Bani Hassan, Hajjah,
north-west Yemen, because of conflict. After being
relocated to Az Zuhrah in Hudaydah, UNHCR helped Ahmed
obtain an identification card, which gave him access to
much-needed aid and cash assistance and assisted him
and his family with emergency shelter.

”

of host communities.

–Ayman Gharaibeh, Director, Regional Bureau for the Middle East and North Africa

© UNHCR/Ameer Alameri

138 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 139

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

With no political resolution to any of the region’s emergencies, UNHCR strove to provide protection and
lifesaving support to people of concern amidst several challenging contexts. Emergency assistance was at the
forefront of UNHCR’s response in 2019, in tandem with leading and coordinating large-scale refugee responses
in line with the Global Compact on Refugees, preserving protection space and creating conditions for voluntary
return in safety and in dignity.

MAJOR SITUATIONS OR OPERATIONS IN
THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA IN 2019
SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC (SYRIA)*
The Syria situation entered its ninth year with more than 5.5 million Syrian
refugees hosted by neighbouring countries, of whom 45% were children and
21% were women. Living conditions were precarious, with some 60% of Syrian
refugees living in poverty. UNHCR and UNDP co-led the Regional Refugee and
Resilience Plan in response to the Syria crisis (3RP), coordinating the work of
more than 270 partners in the five main hosting countries.
The level and pace of refugee returns to Syria gradually increased over the
year. UNHCR verified the return of 95,000 refugees—75% more than in 2018.

KEY RESULTS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
$180.3 million distributed in cash
assistance, benefitting
651,822 people of concern
1.8 million people of concern were
reached with core relief items
167,005 people of concern
received emergency shelter

Inside Syria, humanitarian access to IDPs and returnees was challenging. UNHCR reached more than
1.7 million people in Syria with protection activities such as child protection and legal counselling
interventions, 1.8 million people with core relief items, and 520,900 people with shelter activities. In addition, 358,000 people were assisted through the
cross-border operation from Turkey. While overall internal displacement decreased, new large-scale displacements in north-west and north-east Syria
required an emergency response.
* More details on UNHCR's response to the needs of Syrian refugees in Turkey are included in the Europe chapter.

SYRIAN ARAB
REPUBLIC
5.5 million

LIBYA
REFUGEES AND
ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN LIBYA

6.1 million

355,700

95,000

There were some 1.4 million IDPs in Iraq, more than half of whom have been
living in displacement for at least three years. Despite significant efforts to
rebuild the country and revitalize local economies, significant challenges
hindered return, exacerbated by a deteriorating political, economic and
security situation. Despite this, UNHCR worked with the Government and
development actors to incorporate IDPs’ needs in development plans and
support their gradual absorption into the Iraqi social welfare system.
There were some 280,000 Iraqi refugees and asylum-seekers in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Turkey,
of whom 39% were children and 29% were women. UNHCR also provided protection and basic
services in support of neighbouring countries’ efforts.

REFUGEES AND
ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN
JORDAN, LEBANON, SYRIA
AND TURKEY

VERIFIED REFUGEE RETURNEES

4,600

1.4 million

494,000

IDP RETURNEES1

$44 million distributed in cash
assistance, benefitting
146,462 people of concern

280,000

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

IRAQ

IRAQ

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN
NEIGHBOURING COUNTRIES

45,500

INTERNALLY DISPLACED
2

IDP RETURNEES

2,060

431,000
IDP RETURNEES

SYRIAN ARAB
REPUBLIC L3

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
IN DETENTION

47,000
STATELESS PERSONS

IRAQ
L2

169,340 people of concern were
reached with core relief items
LIBYA

69,255 people of concern
received emergency shelter

In Iraq, UNHCR’s focused on ensuring protection for people of concern and their gradual transition from humanitarian assistance to development
programming through strengthening, and ensuring their inclusion in, national systems as well as identifying comprehensive solutions.

YEMEN
Yemen remained the worst humanitarian crisis globally, with more than 80% of
the population requiring some form of assistance. Some 10.5 million people had
urgent needs resulting from malnutrition, food insecurity, disease and
wide-spread displacement among others.
Active frontlines across multiple governorates drove displacement, with 66,499
households experiencing displacement at least once during the year, while
airstrikes and clashes caused numerous civilian fatalities. Unprecedented heavy
rain and flash floods led to a rise in cholera and diphtheria outbreaks, while the threat of famine
loomed.
Notwithstanding restricted humanitarian access, UNHCR provided cash assistance to 1.2 million IDPs
and delivered more than 1 million basic household items to 86,146 IDPs, IDP returnees and vulnerable
host community members.

YEMEN
L3

$48.7 million distributed in cash
assistance, benefitting 167,831 IDP
families and 10,459 refugee
families

YEMEN

430,730 people of concern were
reached with core relief items

268,500
REFUGEES IN YEMEN

10,700

74,715 people of concern received
emergency shelter

3.6 million
IDP initiative

Despite a collapsing economy and diminished public services, Yemen hosted more than 279,000 refugees and asylum-seekers, primarily from the Horn
of Africa.

LIBYA

UNHCR monitored detention centres, registering some 3,400 people of concern. Thanks to UNHCR’s
advocacy, 1,800 people in need of international protection were released from detention.

According to IOM

5,552 people of concern received
rescue kits at disembarkation
points
43,387 IDPs and refugees
received non-food items
12,308 people of concern were
registered, 3,399 while in
detention

842 refugees and asylum-seekers departed the country through resettlement while a total of 2,029 refugees and asylum-seekers departed through
humanitarian evacuations to Italy, the Emergency Transit Centre in Romania, and the Emergency Transit Mechanisms in Niger and Rwanda. Of the
evacuations, 1,385 people of concern evacuated through the Gathering and Departure Facility (GDF). The GDF was also instrumental in supporting direct
resettlement, voluntary repatriation and reunification. Of the individuals who arrived in their resettlement country in 2019 (842), 29 were resettled through
the GDF and 813 were resettled from urban areas.
To meet the growing needs of more than 45,500 refugees and asylum-seekers in urban areas, UNHCR provided emergency cash grants to more than
1,400 individuals, core relief items to 5,120 people, and other protection-related interventions, such as cash assistance and medical support through its
community day centre in Tripoli and community outreach visits.

140 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

IDP RETURNEES

Level of emergency

1

2

peaceful coexistence.

INTERNALLY DISPLACED

69,000
L 2/3

Conflict beginning in April 2019 in the south and in Tripoli displaced nearly
150,000 people, while the recorded number of IDP returnees since 2017
reached over 447,700. Despite peace talks, hostilities persisted in populated
areas, causing civilian casualties and further displacement, and slowing returns.
In the face of insecurity, UNHCR and partners supported IDPs, returnees and
host communities with non-food items and cash, and quick impact projects such
as the rehabilitation of schools and health facilities created conditions for

ASYLUM-SEEKERS IN
YEMEN

Situation or operation

According to OCHA

PEOPLE OF CONCERN

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS
17%

REFUGEES
2.6 MILLION

18%

of the global population
of concern

25%

7%

15.9 million
people of concern
in the Middle East and North Africa

RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
1.1 MILLION
50%

72% IDPs

11.5 MILLION

2% ASYLUM-SEEKERS
264,000

2% STATELESS PERSONS

15%

60+

371,000

18-59

Less than 1 %

OTHERS OF CONCERN
41,200
5%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

46%

0-4

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 141

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

ACHIEVEMENTS AND KEY RESULTS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
AND NORTH AFRICA
6,797,653 people of concern
registered on an individual basis

CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT

29% of individuals
Registration

$407.7

2019

$381.9

2018

5,410

$313.8

2017

$427.8

2016

biometrically registered

Child
protection

unaccompanied or separated
children had a best interests
assessment initiated or
completed

$271.6

2015
0

100

200

300

400

16,744 SGBV survivors

500
USD m illio n s

Basic needs

Seasonal grants

Lifesaving support

received psychological and
social counselling

Solutions

SGBV

1,895 SGBV survivors
accessed medical assistance

790 SGBV survivors received

I n div idu als

EDUCATION ENROLMENT

legal assistance

1,000,000
144,768

310,271

100,000
31,161

357,067

34,771

385,020

48,566

$407.7 million distributed

432,328

in cash assistance

64,347
Cash
assistance

10,000
2,873

2,286

3,099

3,486

concern received cash
assistance

3,458

2,193,660 people of concern

1,000

received core relief items

146

100

2,924,343 people of

2015

2016
Primary

2017
Secondary

2018

2019

$103.3 million in core relief
Core relief
items

items distributed

Tertiary

496,675 children enrolled
in primary and secondary
education

I nd i vi dua ls

RESETTLEMENT DEPARTURES
FROM THE REGION *

Education

3,458 people of concern
received tertiary education
scholarships

70,000
59,821

60,000

34%

50,000
40,000
30000

36,123
26,523

27,407

30,594

Self-reliance
and livelihoods

20,000

41,516 resettlement

10,000
0

2015
2016
2017
2018
* Resettlement figures include Syrian cases submitted from Turkey.

142 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

of refugees had their own
business or were self-employed
for more than 12 months

submissions from the region

30,594 UNHCR-facilitated

2019
Resettlement

departures

Safeguarding access to protection
and asylum
UNHCR engaged with governments
to establish domestic asylum systems.
For instance, the Government of Egypt
requested the Office to provide a blueprint
on gradual transition to a domestic asylum
mechanism. UNHCR engaged with
Qatar on its asylum legislation after the
Government adopted a national asylum
framework, following its accessions to the
International Covenant on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights and to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
UNHCR conducted refugee status
determination (RSD) in many of the region’s
countries and supported the gradual
transition of RSD to national authorities
in others. In 2019, 6,797,653 people of
concern were registered on an individual
basis across the region—3% more than in
2018—while 1,971,319 (29%) people were
biometrically registered, slightly more than
the 1,324,929 in 2018. With the detention of
asylum-seekers and refugees commonplace
in several countries, UNHCR advocated
to end child detention and find alternatives,
in line with its global strategy "Beyond
detention" (2014-2019). In Libya, UNHCR
registered some 3,400 people of concern
through monitoring visits to detention centres
and, through its intervention, 1,800 people
in need of international protection were
released from detention in 2019.
To integrate mental health and psychosocial
support services (MHPSS) into its protection
response, UNHCR developed a MHPSS
strategy for many operations, including
Yemen. More than 150 UNHCR and partner
frontline staff were trained in psychological
first aid across the region.

Other countries, including Algeria, Egypt,
Iraq, Lebanon and Turkey strengthened
their MHPSS by designating UNHCR
operational focal points, providing
capacity-building for non-mental health
experts on scalable psychological
interventions, and promoting MHPSS
integration within interventions. Improving
the protection response for persons with
disabilities, UNHCR coordinated "Power
of inclusion: Mapping the protection
responses for persons with disabilities
among refugees in the Middle East and
North Africa region", a regional study on
persons with disabilities, to be used for
future planning and to advocate integrated
programming.

Power of
inclusion
Power of Inclusion
Mapping the Protection Responses for Persons with Disabilities
Among Refugees in the Middle East and North Africa Region
November 2019

Guidance notes, specialized training and
capacity development resulted in enhanced
child protection, including child asylum
claims for operations in North Africa, and
some 5,410 unaccompanied or separated
children had a best interests assessment
initiated or completed. Protection
interventions were strengthened by
leveraging broader partnerships for
technical and financial support, as well
as through stronger engagement with civil
society and the private sector. Protection
from sexual exploitation and abuse
measures were incorporated into UNHCR’s
partner selection procedures, and in
project design and monitoring. Some
400 community centres operated across
the region with 4,200 community
volunteers facilitating social support and
access to tailored services for women,
girls, men and boys.

Responding with lifesaving
assistance
Conflicts and emergencies in Iraq, Libya,
Syria and Yemen meant the scale, severity
and complexity of humanitarian needs
remained extensive. UNHCR implemented
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 143

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

3RP in Response
to the Syria Crisis

Emergency Transit
Mechanism in
Rwanda

preparedness measures, and supported
operations in strengthening their presence
and emergency response with lifesaving,
multi-sectoral assistance, including
protection services, shelter, basic relief
items, multi-purpose cash and health
assistance. UNHCR enhanced its leadership
in refugee emergency responses, particularly
through the 3RP, illustrating the progress
that can be made when the Global Compact
on Refugees is applied in practice, and
provided assistance to IDPs with its lead in
protection, shelter/NFI and CCCM clusters.
It also coordinated with Humanitarian or
UN Country Teams to address the protection
dimensions of displacement crises.
Responding to the most urgent
lifesaving needs, UNHCR provided nearly
$407.7 million in cash assistance to more
than 2.9 million refugees and displaced
people, particularly in urban settings.
Some $269.3 million-worth of core relief
items supported more than 1.3 million
refugees and IDPs in the Syria situation,
and at least 619,500 people were provided
with shelter assistance while 61% of
households were living in adequate dwellings.
Cash grants made rental accommodation
possible for 84,588 households.

144 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Lifesaving mechanisms for humanitarian
evacuation, resettlement, voluntary
repatriation, reunification, and other
solutions were expanded to Italy,
Niger, Romania and Rwanda including
via the Emergency Transit Mechanisms/
Emergency Transit Centres. In all,
878 people evacuated from Libya were
processed through the mechanism in Niger;
393 people were evacuated to Italy;
452 to Romania; and 306 to Rwanda,
where the first seven evacuees later
departed for resettlement.

UNHCR’s work with the new chairs of the
Priority Situations Core Group—Ireland
and Sweden—was important in achieving
the increase in resettlement submissions.
Work consisted of sharing good practices,
demonstrating the strategic impact of
resettlement and identifying durable
solutions to ensure strong partnerships and
collaboration in key ongoing resettlement
programmes, such as in the Syria and
Central Mediterranean situations.
Primary, secondary and tertiary education
inclusive of people of concern was
encouraged for children and young people.
During 2019, 432,328 children were
enrolled in primary school—a 12% increase
compared to 2018. Meanwhile, 64,347 were
enrolled in secondary school—nearly a
third more than in 2018. Under UNHCR’s
DAFI scholarship programme, 3,458 youth
also received tertiary education grants.
UNHCR promoted the economic inclusion
of those who had been forced to flee
their homes, advocating their right to work
and earn a livelihood, and 34% of refugees
were self-employed for more than 12 months
or owned a business by the end of 2019.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
In 2019, UNHCR verified 95,000 refugee
returns to Syria from neighbouring
countries, representing an annual increase
of 75%. In UNHCR’s latest regional
intention survey, which excluded Turkey,
more than 75% of Syrian refugees in the
region expressed a hope to return one day,
while only around 6% intended to return
in the coming year.
With more than 5.5 million Syrian refugees
hosted in neighbouring countries, and
to mitigate the reduction of global
resettlement allocations observed in
2017 and 2018, UNHCR encouraged
new resettlement programmes and the
expansion of existing ones as a means of
responsibility-sharing with host countries.
There were 41,516 refugees submitted for
resettlement from the region (including
17,552 from Turkey), an 11% increase on
2018 submissions. The largest number of
referred refugees was from Syria (29,562),
with almost 4,656 from Afghanistan and
2,443 from Iraq (most of whom were referred
from Turkey). Some 20,036 refugees were
resettled from the region, as well as a
further 10,558 from Turkey, a slight increase
compared to 2018 departures.

Ensuring protection, assistance and
solutions in internal displacement
contexts
In Iraq, Libya, Syria, and Yemen, more than
11 million people were internally displaced
by violence, many multiple times. Across
the emergencies, UNHCR led protection,
shelter/NFI and CCCM clusters or sectors.
The IDP response took a community-based
approach, with UNHCR and partners
aiming to empower communities to obtain
their rights safely and in dignity, while
reducing their vulnerabilities. Outreach
platforms—a network of community and
satellite centres with mobile teams and
volunteers linked to national NGOs—
enhanced UNHCR’s coverage. Given the
security situation and difficulties accessing
populations in need, this approach was
instrumental in consulting and facilitating
communities’ participation in designing
and shaping an evidence-based response
across sectors, that achieved better
protection, improved lives and found
solutions.

Delivering through partnerships
©ILO

More than 148,000 people accessed
primary health care and nutrition
assistance while around 500,000 people
were assisted with clean drinking water
and adequate sanitation. About 92% of
people of concern had access to national
and/or government primary health
facilities. UNHCR strengthened sexual
and gender-based violence (SGBV)
prevention, risk mitigation mainstreaming
and response across all operations. There
were 16,744 SGBV incidents reported,
for which survivors received psychosocial
counselling. Furthermore, region-wide,
790 survivors received legal assistance
and 1,895 survivors accessed medical help.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Improving and empowering refugees
to access decent work in Jordan
Employment service centres were established
inside the Zaatari refugee camp in 2017 and
Azraq refugee camp in 2018. The centres were the result
of work done by UNHCR with ILO in coordination with
the Government of Jordan, and sponsored by the Dutch
Government.
The centres provide refugees with counselling services on
employment, work permits, and help them leave the camps
to attend job fairs where they can meet employers and gain
access to formal work opportunities across Jordan. This new leave system also provided refugees with increased
protection and allowed them to take up job opportunities anywhere in the country within specified sectors.
To date, 13 employment centres have helped some 10,000 people, both Jordanians and Syrians, to obtain employment
and training opportunities, as well as other services.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 145

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

In Yemen, UNHCR assisted nearly
168,000 IDP families and vulnerable host
community members with cash assistance;
gave more than 86,000 families core relief
items, such as bedding, kitchen sets and
solar lamps; and distributed shelter kits to
more than 17,000 families.
In Libya, UNHCR aimed to strengthen
advocacy and promote IDPs’ access to
rights, basic services and solutions.
Increased hostilities in Tripoli from April
2019 displaced 150,000 Libyans. UNHCR
activated its emergency IDP response,
reaching 1,086 IDP and IDP returnee
households with multi-purpose cash
assistance and distributing 9,785 shelter
kits to IDPs in eastern Libya. By increasing
its outreach capacity and expanding its
partnerships, it conducted protection
monitoring, identified needs and guided
effective responses.
In Syria, despite operational challenges,
UNHCR reached more than 1.7 million
people with protection activities, including
236,000 with specific child protection
activities and more than 300,000 with
SGBV services. Around 1.8 million people
also received basic relief items; more than
520,000 people had shelter support; and
some 428,000 people accessed health
assistance. Working cross-border from
Turkey, UNHCR also provided basic relief
items and shelter support to more than
358,000 people and reached over
153,200 people with protection services
through referrals, awareness raising and
psychological support.
In Iraq, more than 47,000 IDPs and returnees
received legal assistance through UNHCR
and at least 36,600 IDPs and returnees
secured civil documentation. UNHCR also
provided cash assistance to vulnerable IDP
families, both as monthly cash support for

146 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

those living outside camps and through
winter assistance. UNHCR’s winter
assistance programme provided cash
assistance to more than 64,200 IDP
families. It also distributed core relief items
to more than 33,300 families in camps and
urban areas. Meanwhile, UNHCR shelter
interventions focused on improving
the living conditions of IDPs in camps
throughout Iraq and supporting
returnees in their place of origin.

Reducing and preventing
statelessness
With some 371,000 stateless persons in
the region, initiatives were in line with the
regional strategic approach on the
prevention and reduction of statelessness.
In particular, initiatives built on the
momentum created by the 2019 League
of Arab States’ Declaration on Belonging
and Legal Identity, reinforced in the
League of Arab States’ Arab Strategy
for the Protection of Refugee Children.
UNHCR also worked closely with States
in preparation for the October 2019
High-Level Segment on Statelessness,
with dedicated support to Mauritania
resulting in the submission of four pledges
during the event.
Courses on statelessness for government
officials strengthened awareness of
international standards and provided a
platform for States to share experiences
and explore possible solutions and
innovations. In Iraq, significant reductions
in statelessness were sustained through
legal aid. In 2019, 262 cases were resolved
in Iraq through the acquisition and
confirmation of nationality, with a total of
2,733 cases since 2015. In the 3RP
context, interventions by UNHCR and
partners significantly reduced the
percentage of Syrian refugee children

born in the region each year without
identity documents, such as a birth
certificate or medical birth notification.
The percentage fell from approximately
35% in 2012 to 1.8% in 2018, the last year
for which data is available.

Operational highlights on the
implementation of the Global
Compact on Refugees
The Middle East and North Africa Civil
Society Network for Displacement became
the principal regional platform for civil
society national actors. The first regional
NGO consultations in Amman, Jordan,
held in association with the network,
saw around 200 partners embracing
the "whole-of-society" approach.
The consultations provided a platform for
regional actors to amplify advocacy and
present joint commitments to displacement
prevention, response, and solutions.
In Tunisia, for instance, civil society actors
played a leading role in advocating and
providing essential services to people of
concern. The actors created a network
of expertise, building the capacities of
government officials and decision makers,
by conducting training sessions on the
international protection of refugees and
asylum-seekers for representatives of
ministries and government bodies.
Engagement with regional academia
was another successful example of the
pioneering outreach in the region, aligned
with the Global Compact on Refugees.
Think tanks, research centres, universities
and professors supported building a
culture of evidence-based policy making
on displacement. At the first and second
academic roundtable discussions in
Amman, Jordan, partners highlighted the
important role that academic institutions
can play in conducting research on issues

related to displacement and building
databases and scientific bases for policies
and operations to advance refugees’ rights.
Progress was achieved in linking academia
with policy-makers through follow-up on
the creation of the first regional Arabic
Journal of Refugee Studies, which will also
support practitioners in the field.

CONSEQUENCES OF
UNDERFUNDING
Across the region, chronic underfunding
affected all operations. With overall funding
less than half (46%) of what was needed,
critical lifesaving and protection services
remained unmet in 2019.

Middle East and
North Africa Civil
Society Network
for Displacement

The highest gaps were faced in Syria,
where accessing people of concern
regularly and delivering quality protection
services faced significant resource-related
constraints, as well as those engendered
by the insecurity.
This was particularly relevant in the remote
Governorates of Aleppo, Deir-ez-Zour, Idleb
and Raqqa. UNHCR's plans to expand its
outreach network by opening 28 new
community centres did not materialize,
leaving 560,000 IDPs without protection
services.
Given the scale of the crisis, Yemen
remained one of the region’s most
underfunded operations. In 2019, more
than 900,000 Yemenis, considered to
be the most vulnerable of its internally
displaced population, found refuge in
one of 1,700 IDP hosting sites. However,
underfunding of the CCCM Cluster meant
the services offered were limited or
sporadic.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 147

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

In Jordan, limited funds meant the
operation was unable to assist nearly
10,000 households of the 41,700 families
targeted with cash assistance. Similarly,
in Lebanon, UNHCR was only able to
reach 42% of the 84,000 vulnerable
Syrian refugee families targeted with
regular cash assistance.
In Iraq, UNHCR had to prioritize 59% of
IDP families for winter assistance, leaving
significant needs unmet in areas where
more than 4 million people had returned
in 2019.
Difficult decisions had to be taken in
refugee camps like Tindouf (Algeria) or

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

Mbera (Mauritania), where funding was
redirected from critical infrastructural
investments toward lifesaving
interventions.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

Challenges faced by urban refugees and
asylum-seekers in countries such as
Egypt or Morocco were amplified by
increased costs of living, exposing them
to higher risks, such as exploitation and
forced labour.

EXPENDITURE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
2015-2019 | USD
1,400
1,200
1,000

Alongside a lack of funding, the limited
opportunities for durable solutions in
host countries and fewer resettlement
places globally further complicated the
protection and operational environment.

800
600
Pillar 1
Pillar 2

400

Pillar 3
Pillar 4

Millions

200

Since 2012, Qatar Charity (QC) has been one
of UNHCR’s top private partners and has
supported 1,287,835 displaced people.
In 2019 alone, QC supported Rohingya refugees and IDPs in
Iraq and Yemen with a contribution of $12,091,813 million,
providing urgently-needed cash assistance for IDP families.
In Bangladesh, QC supported the development
of water, health and sanitation facilities for
Rohingya refugees and host communities.

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

© UNHCR/Jamal Al-Barea

Qatar Charity continues support
for UNHCR

0

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE FOR THE MIDDLE EAST
AND NORTH AFRICA
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income2

TOTAL

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

52,975
7,134
1,045,467
84,246
35,132
864
2,304
24,612

4%
1%
83%
7%
3%
0%
0%
2%

23%
5%
41%
16%
7%
3%
1%
15%

1,252,734

100%

28%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked1
Unearmarked
In-kind

Notes:					
1
Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, subregional, situation or thematic level.					
2
Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers.					

148 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 149

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD
PILLAR 1
Refugee
programme

OPERATION

Regional Bureau for the Middle East
and North Africa

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

Stateless
programme

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

PILLAR 4

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
% OF
REGIONAL EXP VS
TOTAL
BUDGET

OPERATION

Budget

3,294,998

-

-

-

3,294,998

NORTH AFRICA

Expenditure

2,189,138

-

-

-

2,189,138

Algeria

57,667,520

-

-

-

57,667,520

4,919,707

-

-

-

4,919,707

60,962,518

-

-

-

60,962,518

2%

7,108,845

-

-

-

7,108,845

1%

Regional activities for the Middle East
and North Africa

Budget

SUBTOTAL

Budget

Expenditure

Budget
Expenditure

Egypt Regional Office

Budget
Expenditure

Expenditure

Libya

12%

Iraq

Budget
Expenditure

Israel

Budget
Expenditure

Jordan

Budget
Expenditure

Lebanon

Budget
Expenditure

Saudi Arabia Regional Office

Budget
Expenditure

Syrian Arab Republic

Budget
Expenditure

Syrian Regional Refugee
Coordination Office

Budget

Yemen

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Expenditure
Mauritania

MIDDLE EAST

Budget
Expenditure

150 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

185,673,863
72,210,317
4,223,967
2,934,831
371,918,461
213,880,490
562,007,934
325,058,914
11,306,232
9,642,494
46,968,149
13,574,185
20,519,570
16,186,501
48,514,717
31,842,288

465,780
269,957
753,045
668,257
216,077
134,364
198,641
27,758
-

259,382,854
17,180,980
-

416,337,806
130,544,813
317,833,049
145,349,316
20,400,000
18,325,282
150,133,920
107,988,149

1,251,132,894
685,330,021

1,633,543
1,100,337

259,382,854
17,180,980

904,704,774 2,416,854,065
402,207,560 1,105,818,898

Budget
Budget
Expenditure

602,477,448
203,025,088
4,223,967
2,934,831
371,918,461
213,880,490
562,760,979
325,727,171
11,522,309
9,776,858
624,382,693
176,132,239
40,919,570
34,511,783
198,648,637
139,830,437

Morocco

Budget
Expenditure

Tunisia

Budget
Expenditure

Western Sahara: Confidence building
measures

Budget

SUBTOTAL

Budget

Expenditure

Expenditure

TOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

88%
88%

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

% OF
% OF
REGIONAL EXP VS
TOTAL
BUDGET

37,091,284
17,016,854
104,156,716
46,118,503
61,683,093
39,483,378
19,348,835
15,586,690
8,581,290
6,215,881
7,880,311
6,175,322
7,259,413
2,126,804

-

-

26,968,830
7,083,269
-

37,091,284
17,016,854
104,156,716
46,118,503
88,651,923
46,566,647
19,348,835
15,586,690
8,581,290
6,215,881
7,880,311
6,175,322
7,259,413
2,126,804

246,000,941
132,723,432

-

-

26,968,830
7,083,269

272,969,771
139,806,702

10%
11%

51%

1,558,096,353
825,162,298

1,633,543
1,100,337

259,382,854
17,180,980

931,673,604 2,750,786,354
409,290,830 1,252,734,445

100%
100%

46%

46%

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 151

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SUMMARIES I MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

DONOR
United States of America
Germany
European Union
Kuwait
Japan
Norway
Canada
United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

274,801,724
159,754,801
64,743,485
12,186,542
13,096,720
16,438,090
7,929,331

30,566

481,500

19,096,024

Netherlands
Italy
Denmark
Qatar

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

IDP projects

ALL PILLARS

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP projects

125,708,280
44,614,602
16,142,552
25,093,458
18,828,917
9,141,745
3,799,392

183,350,000
26,904,002
5,039,490
3,872,676
5,148,792
18,417,933

583,890,570
231,273,405
80,886,037
42,319,490
36,279,813
30,728,627
30,146,657

2,402,332

1,520,580

23,018,936

20,335,260
5,164,001
3,138,062
1,189,080

1,025,100
5,000,000
210,148
590,510
6,608,946

21,360,360
20,580,266
19,406,485
15,882,371
15,142,688
12,335,000
10,143,224
9,918,627
9,037,880
8,637,029
8,165,438
6,718,959
5,756,719
5,005,562
3,993,855
3,817,843
3,728,057
2,831,431
2,419,130
2,405,858
2,155,288
1,706,485
1,584,114
1,475,000
1,439,524
1,035,000
1,012,209
965,746
915,907
836,505
800,000
763,523
720,801
680,835
598,179
592,272
440,591
380,311

10,416,265
16,058,275
14,102,781
8,533,742
11,000,000

1,335,000

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (National Partner in Germany)
Sweden
France

621,445
7,333,334
311,820

Country-based pooled funds
Australia
Switzerland
Belgium
Finland
Spain
USA for UNHCR
Republic of Korea
Private donors in the United Arab Emirates

8,165,438
3,202,878
2,702,009
109,156
2,690,058
211,196
1,728,057
786,861

2,199,978
1,136,364
8,325,208
502,008
3,054,710
1,303,797
524,693
500,000
148,283

Luxembourg
Ireland
Private donors in Kuwait
Central Emergency Response Fund
Private donors in Canada
Private donors in the United States of America
Private donors in Lebanon

2,155,288
1,706,485
1,391,118
275,000
90,729
35,000
345,365

16,525
1,200,000

622

Australia for UNHCR
Private donors in Italy
Private donors in Japan
Russian Federation
Poland
Private donors in Egypt

683,332
836,505
300,000
504,032
30,040

1,430

Private donors in Saudi Arabia
Private donors in China
United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security

152 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

598,179
281,443
5,332
380,311

3,014,072

3,081,954
1,500,000
1,896,287
2,419,130
2,405,858

176,471
1,348,795
1,000,000
666,222
965,746
231,145

500,000
122,639

Sweden for UNHCR
Monaco

10,143,224
7,097,204
568,182

4,896,406

Private donors in the Republic of Korea
Czechia

TOTAL

DONOR
Isle of Man

26,116

259,491
568,122
680,835
284,714
435,259

ALL PILLARS

261,549

Private donors in Switzerland
Private donors in the Netherlands

84,181
200,200

Private donors in Liechtenstein
Iceland
España con ACNUR (National Partner in Spain)

11,416

Japan for UNHCR
Liechtenstein
Malta

Private donors in Qatar
Saudi Arabia

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

Private donors in Oman

168,896
31,944

24

Private donors in France
Estonia
Private donors in Thailand

83,426
5,685

Slovenia

56,000

Private donors in the Philippines
Private donors in Singapore

1,587

Private donors in Brazil
Morocco

Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
Private donors in Indonesia

255
12,901
2,756

13,990
2,284
3,728

Private donors in Denmark
Private donors in Austria

1,484
1,233
1,155
699
547
154

Private donors in Kenya
Private donors in Ireland
Private donors in South Africa
Private donors in Belgium
Private donors in Mexico

TOTAL*

33,032
31,629
24,361
25,184

22,321

Andorra
Private donors in India

75,133
105,596
66,419
68,534
57,405

Private donors in Monaco
UNICEF

252,640
138,065
20,000
216,589
199,436
205,234
201,613

666,046,864

30,566

793,320

296,679,186

TOTAL

261,549
252,640
222,246
220,200
216,589
210,851
205,234
201,613
168,896
107,101
105,596
83,426
72,104
68,534
57,405
56,000
33,032
31,629
25,947
25,184
22,321
14,244
12,901
5,040
3,728
1,484
1,233
1,155
699
547
154

303,071,951 1,266,621,888

*Notes:
1 Contributions include 7% programme support costs.
2 Includes a total of $31.9 million acknowledged in 2018 for activities with implementation in 2019 and excludes $25 million acknowledged in 2019 for activities with implementation in 2020 and beyond.
3 Includes contributions earmarked to the situations for Iraq, Syria and Yemen.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 153

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Safeguarding
fundamental
rights

The goal of all protection activities is to foster
the full enjoyment of fundamental rights in
response to the legal, physical and material
needs of people of concern to UNHCR.
Protection work in 2019 was challenged
by the increased complexity and scale of
cross-border and internal displacement,
but the year also saw significant protection
achievements.
Many States took action to improve national
asylum systems, seeking to ensure the
fairness, efficiency, adaptability and integrity
of their laws and policy frameworks.
The Asylum Capacity Support Group (ACSG),
launched at the Global Refugee Forum, was
a catalyst for action with more than 50 States
pledging to strengthen their asylum systems
or extend support to other States to do so.
UNHCR provided guidance and practical
tools to encourage compliance with
international standards and facilitated the
engagement of a wide range of stakeholders
including law firms who pledged a significant
number of pro bono hours in support of
protection objectives at the Forum.
The principle of responsibility-sharing in
the provision of protection and solutions also
underpinned the High-Level Segment on
Statelessness. At the half-way mark of the
#IBelong Campaign, States committed to
reinforce their actions to identify, prevent and
reduce statelessness.
An updated IDP Policy, issued in 2019,
promotes clarity and predictability in
UNHCR’s contribution to coordinated
humanitarian responses and the protection
of IDPs, in support of primary State
responsibility. UNHCR’s stepped up approach
to IDP protection includes support to the
Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on
Internal Displacement, as well as to regional
institutions to promote ratification and
implementation of the Kampala Convention,
with three more States acceding in 2019.
Once stateless, children from the coastal
community of Burundians living in Kenya
are now able to enjoy their full rights
as Kenyan citizens.
© UNHCR/Tobin Jones

154 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

To reinforce the key role of communities,
as well as the effective inclusion of age,
gender and diversity considerations,
UNHCR strengthened its framework for

accountability to affected people and
actively contributed to the development
of the UN Disability Inclusion Strategy and
relevant IASC guidelines. Work on critical
child protection issues and in response to
gender-based violence was also
undertaken.
Enhanced cooperation with development
partners was part of broader advocacy for
inclusion in nationally-provided services,
to improve resilience and self-reliance within
refugee and host communities. Advocacy
addressing the importance of safety and
dignity for sustainable voluntary repatriation
was only moderately successful, with
protracted conflict and neglect of underlying
root causes for flight remaining significant
obstacles to return. Less than 5% of global
resettlement needs were met in 2019 but
UNHCR continued to work with States
and partners in rolling out the "Three Year
(2019-2021) Strategy on Resettlement and
Complementary Pathways" looking to a
future in which opportunities will become
more available, including through the
involvement of new resettlement countries,
and expanding complementary pathways
for admission to third countries.
In this chapter
•	 Legal protection frameworks
•	 Identifying international protection
needs and national asylum systems
•	 Promoting and protecting human rights
•	 Addressing and responding to mixed
movements
•	 Alternatives to detention
•	 Preventing and responding to
statelessness
•	 Registration, documentation and
identity management
•	 Age, gender and diversity-inclusive
programming
•	 Community-based protection
•	 Gender equality
•	 Child protection, youth engagement and
empowerment
•	 Protecting persons with disabilities and
older persons
•	 Protecting LGBTI persons in forced
displacement
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 155

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

LEGAL PROTECTION FRAMEWORKS
© UNHCR/John Wendle

It strategically intervened before regional
and national courts, and judicial bodies,
on a range of legal and policy issues related
to refugee protection, as well as the rights
of people displaced across borders and
stateless persons. UNHCR also provided
interpretation of relevant international legal
principles and standards.
Legal advice was provided to UNHCR
operations, partners and States on a wide
range of issues concerning international
refugee protection. Importantly, a new
edition of UNHCR’s “Handbook and
guidelines on procedures and criteria for
determining refugee status” was released,
ensuring further support to a full and
inclusive application of international and
regional refugee law instruments.

by the effects of climate change and disasters.
It also sought to raise awareness of protection
principles in global policy discussions.
UNHCR was active in the State-led Platform
on Disaster Displacement and the Task
Force on Displacement under the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change,
at a time when both entities saw their
mandate and workplans renewed. It
co-organized and contributed to events
where climate change and disaster
displacement were key features, including
with the African Union and at COP 25 in
Madrid. UNHCR also worked to develop
regional guidelines on human mobility in
the context of climate change (see as well
the Climate Action Overview).

Constraints and unmet needs
IDP policy

A Sudanese asylum-seeker at UNHCR’s humanitarian centre near Agadez, Niger.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

16
States saw the adoption of laws and legislative
changes demonstrating improvements
in refugee rights

17
judicial proceedings in 10 different jurisdictions
in which UNHCR provided interpretation of
relevant principles of international refugee
and human rights law

89

11

States received technical advice from UNHCR
to ensure compliance with international and
regional refugee protection standards

countries developed national frameworks on
internal displacement with UNHCR’s support

Refugee protection policy
In accordance with its mandate, UNHCR
continued to supervise the application of
international conventions for the protection
of refugees. At the end of 2019, 149 States
were party to the 1951 Convention relating
to the Status of Refugees, its 1967 Protocol,
or both. While no State became party to the
1951 Convention or the 1967 Protocal in 2019,
one State lifted reservations to the 1951
Convention: Sweden. As a result, Sweden
now accords refugees the same treatment
156 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

as nationals with respect to State pensions.
States parties to the 1951 Convention and/or
its 1967 Protocol are obliged to cooperate
with UNHCR and to provide the Office with
relevant information on the implementation
of these instruments. As such, UNHCR
continued to seek improvements to
domestic laws and policies relating to the
treatment of refugees, ensuring their
compliance with international law.
In 2019, UNHCR issued detailed comments
on law and policy proposals in 24 countries.

UNHCR supported the development
of national frameworks on internal
displacement by providing legal and
technical advice in 11 States, including
El Salvador (which adopted its IDP law in
January 2020), Ethiopia, Honduras, Liberia,
Mali, Mexico and South Sudan. The Office
continued to advocate for the participation
and consultation of affected communities
when developing such instruments, for
example in South Sudan. In Colombia,
it supported the work of the Special
Jurisdiction for Peace, including by sharing
international experiences around the
criminalization of forced displacement
(see as well the IDP Overview).

Climate change and disaster
displacement policy
In line with its protection mandate and the
analysis that disasters are expected to
increase due to global warming, both in
frequency and intensity, UNHCR advanced
work on legal and normative aspects of the
international protection of people displaced

UNHCR's
Handbook and
guidelines on
procedures
and criteria for
determining
refugee status
HANDBOOK ON PROCEDURES
AND CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING
REFUGEE STATUS
and GUIDELINES ON
INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
UNDER THE 1951 CONVENTION AND THE 1967 PROTOCOL
RELATING TO THE STATUS OF REFUGEES
REISSUED
GENEVA, FEBRUARY 2019

Ł

While States often solicited UNHCR’s views
on proposed law and policy changes, the
Office was frequently given limited time to
provide these, which restricted its ability
to exercise its supervisory responsibility.
Despite States’ obligations under the
1951 Convention and the 1967 Protocol,
some occasionally gave insufficient
background information on existing laws
and the treatment of refugees.
When UNHCR submitted its views to a
legislative proposal, they were not always
followed, leading sometimes to the adoption
of legislation with reduced protection
safeguards or with provisions that may be at
variance with international and/or regional
legal obligations. For instance, of the
34 countries which saw the adoption of laws
and legislative changes to their international
protection framework, 9 of these (26%)
involved some restrictions to refugees’ rights.
Lastly, in some countries, electoral processes
or other national political developments
delayed progress on the enactment of legal
instruments and amendments in 2019.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 157

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

IDENTIFYING INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION NEEDS
AND NATIONAL ASYLUM SYSTEMS
© UNHCR/Jaime Giménez Sánchez de la Blanca

Ahead of the implementation of new visa laws, UNHCR staff at the Rumichaca International Bridge provide information, legal assistance, water and aid items to
Venezuelan refugees and migrants crossing from Colombia into Ecuador.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

2.3

58

million individual new and appeal asylum
applications were registered globally and
121 States and territories implemented national
asylum procedures

States pledged to strengthen their national
asylum systems at the Global Refugee Forum,
specifically regarding fairness, efficiency, adaptability
and integrity

43
Of this number 120,400 new individual asylum
applications were registered by UNHCR,
accounting for 5% of the total

For more
information on
asylum and related
trends, see
Chapter 4 of the
2019 Global
Trends report

States in which UNHCR strategically engaged
with refugee status determination procedures,
in accordance with its mandate

Protection is a State responsibility and the
existence of fully functioning national
asylum/refugee status determination (RSD)
systems operating with fairness, efficiency,
adaptability and integrity are crucial.

for coordinated efforts to develop

The official launch of the Asylum Capacity
Support Group (ACSG) at the Global
Refugee Forum created new momentum

developed guidance and practical tools to

158 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

national asylum capacities and further
State responsibility in receiving countries.
In consultation with States, civil society
organizations and others, UNHCR
help them prepare pledges in this area.
Using the Forum as a focus, UNHCR’s work

with States led to around 58 pledging to
develop or strengthen existing national
asylum systems. It also saw the Office
supporting other States in their efforts.
In the lead-up to the Forum, several States
made welcome efforts to streamline their
asylum systems, in line with UNHCR’s
country guidance. Examples included
Mexico’s decision to apply simplified
procedures for cases involving certain
profiles with high recognition rates;
Brazil’s move to recognize thousands of
Venezuelan asylum-seekers as refugees
on a prima facie basis; and Malawi’s prima
facie declaration of refugee status for
certain groups of asylum-seekers from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).
Whether individually or collectively, many
civil society organizations and private law
firms also pledged to support efforts in this
area by, for example, providing free legal
advice and representation, training,
research and interpreters. A portion of the
legal community’s joint pledge at the Forum
for 125,000 hours of free legal aid per year
is expected to be operational as of 2020.
High-quality country of origin information
and UNHCR country guidance are the
starting points for identifying international
protection needs and are therefore at the
heart of improving the efficiency and quality
of policy and decision making in national
asylum systems. In 2019, UNHCR produced
and commissioned country of origin
information reports on major countries of
origin and issued country guidance on
the DRC, Iraq, Mali, South Sudan, and
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of).
In addition, UNHCR’s country-specific
guidance was presented to a range of
different first-instance decision makers,
including judges, tribunal members,
lawyers, legal aid providers and other

experts at the national, regional
(European Asylum Support Office,
Quality Assurance Initiatives) and global
levels (Inter-Governmental Consultations,
Priority Situations Core Group).
In 2019, close to 1.3 million substantive
RSD decisions were made globally.
UNHCR also completed the review and
update of its “Procedural standards for
RSD under UNHCR’s mandate” and rolled
out the new RSD learning programme.
As well, 483 learners, including partner
staff and State officials, completed
UNHCR's e-learning modules on RSD
and country of origin information.
In addition, 293 individuals benefited
from the continued roll-out of UNHCR’s
interview learning programme.

Constraints and unmet needs
While the ACSG is expected to progressively
improve the asylum landscape, challenges
and gaps related to the institutional or
technical components of national asylum
systems remain. As such, UNHCR is expected
to continue conducting RSD in accordance
with its mandate in at least 43 countries,
implying an ongoing need for dedicated
capacity and expertise.

NEW AND APPEAL ASYLUM APPLICATIONS
REGISTERED | 2010 -2019
2,500,000
2,000,000
1,500,000
1,000,000
500,000

2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019

States

UNHCR

* In addition, UNHCR and States operating joint procedures
received 149,400 applications between 2010 and 2019.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 159

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

PROMOTING AND PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
© UNHCR/Alessandro Penso

UNHCR also highlighted the vulnerabilities
of displaced elderly persons by working
with the Independent Expert on Enjoyment
of Human Rights by Older Persons in an
event at the Human Rights Council.
UNHCR engaged in six Universal Periodic
Review (UPR) sessions by supporting field
colleagues in how best to engage, preparing
42 feedback reports to operations informing
them of UPR recommendations relevant to
UNHCR; delivering eight oral statements
related to adopting UPR outcomes at the
Human Rights Council; and delivering the
first oral statement on the need to strengthen
respect for displaced people during the
Council’s general debate on the UPR.

A UNHCR staff member entertains a four-year old Eritrean child at Rome's Fiumicino Airport, after she arrived in Italy on a relocation flight from Niger.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

6

12

Universal Periodic Review sessions to which
UNHCR contributed through 25 stand-alone,
country-specific submissions. In cooperation with
Member States, this resulted in concrete
recommendations to improve respect for the rights
of displaced people

per month average number of cases referred
by OHCHR and human rights mechanisms
related to people of concern on which UNHCR
followed up. It also provided targeted support
to field colleagues on human rights engagement
queries (on average 20 requests per month)

7
UNHCR developed and issued general guidance
for its operations on how to use the complaints
procedures of the human rights mechanisms in
urgent cases

Annual reports of special procedures mandate
holders to which UNHCR contributed, as well
as supporting 60 country visits by the special
procedures in 2019 with detailed information

UNHCR continued to improve and
strengthen its longstanding engagement
with UN human rights mechanisms in 2019.
This included raising issues affecting people
of concern in standard setting and review
processes. It also sought to encourage
action by governments, civil society and
other entities to promote and protect the
human rights of people of concern to UNHCR.
Key achievements linked to UNHCR’s
engagement with human rights processes
160 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

included several Special Rapporteurs
taking up the Office’s calls for States to
improve asylum systems and encouraging
the concerned governments to strengthen
asylum-seeker registration, legal aid
services, accommodation and freedom of
movement standards. Among other positive
outcomes, vulnerable families were
released from detention in a transit zone
following coordinated advocacy with a
special procedures mandate holder.

UNHCR also regularly engaged with the
UN human rights treaty bodies, raising
protection considerations affecting people
of concern under each of the treaties.
It held eight strategic meetings with the
OHCHR Secretariat supporting the treaty
bodies and provided two statements and
one thematic briefing to treaty body
committees. These measures strengthened
the channels of collaboration between
UNHCR and treaty bodies, as well as their
attentiveness to emerging human rights
issues affecting people of concern.
In addition, UNHCR held strategic meetings
related to 13 different special procedure
mandate holders, identifying common
synergies between mandates and
proactively identifying priority issues and
States for forthcoming country visits or
annual reports, to which UNHCR could
contribute expert advice and support.
UNHCR also established and expanded
existing channels for the exchange of
information with the special procedures on
individual cases, facilitating the sharing of
information on such cases, where
appropriate, and enabling their advocacy
and action on behalf of people of concern,
including those at risk of refoulement.

UNHCR reached out to a variety of
stakeholders from NGOs, national human
rights institutions and academia to
strengthen partnerships, expand outreach
and advocacy opportunities, and create
opportunities to exchange on human
rights. It also sought to strengthen
existing linkages with OHCHR and
other UN agencies. Developing and
strengthening partnerships in the field
of human rights helped identify new
opportunities to ensure the mainstreaming
of protection issues for people of concern.
These included providing input to guidance
prepared by UN sister agencies, as well
as working on joint capacity-building
initiatives to raise issues related to forced
displacement and statelessness in
international and regional normative human
rights frameworks and leveraging the
existing work of other stakeholders.
UNHCR also participated in the UN Task
Team on civic space, which is developing
guidance and a UN system-wide strategy
on promoting, expanding and protecting
civic space and addressing cases of
reprisal.

Constraints and unmet needs
Human rights are a sensitive issue with
certain States and dialogue around
measures to safeguard the rights of people
of concern, or redress threatened or actual
violations, did not, in all cases, lead to swift
action in 2019. This included situations in
which obstacles derived not from lack of
political will, but from limited resources,
institutional capacity, and/or lack of strong
systems to guarantee the rule of law.
In other contexts, populist anti-foreigner
rhetoric or sentiment also limited UNHCR’s
capacity to ensure that the rights of people
of concern were guaranteed in practice.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 161

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

ADDRESSING AND RESPONDING TO MIXED MOVEMENTS
© UNHCR/Gordon Welters

Piles of lifejackets used by refugees and migrants to cross the Aegean Sea from Turkey to Greece at a dumping ground near Molyvos, on the Greek island of Lesvos.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

2,029
Sea arrivals to Italy and the estimated number
of dead and missing people along that route
decreased by almost 50% compared to 2018

people in need of international protection
evacuated from Libya including through
Emergency Transit Mechanisms/Centres

The year saw continuing mixed movements,
with refugees in search of international
protection moving alongside migrants,
often sharing the same routes and the
same dangers. Migration along dangerous
sea and land routes was driven in many
cases by the lack of opportunities for
migrants to move legally, such as through
labour mobility schemes. It was also driven
by migrants’ expectations of conditions in
intended destination countries, encouraged
by the rhetoric of smugglers and, in some
cases, diaspora communities.
With 2019 the first year of the implementation
of the Global Compact on Refugees (GCR)
162 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

and the Global Compact for Safe, Orderly
and Regular Migration (GCM), UNHCR
provided guidance on how the GCR and its
architecture of support could be applicable
to situations of mixed movements. The
Office engaged with the UN Network on
Migration, as a member of its executive
committee, to develop guidance and tools
supporting Member States’ implementation
of the GCM.
Irregular, dangerous movements through
the Central Mediterranean route continued.
However, sea arrivals to Italy, and the
estimated number of dead and missing
people along that route, decreased by
almost 50% compared to 2018.

UNHCR in promoted respect for
international protection principles in
rescue and interception at sea, including
through judicial engagement and
collaboration with partners, such as the
International Maritime Organization. This
contributed to disembarkation schemes
for refugees and migrants, facilitated
by agreements on the distribution of
asylum-seekers among different countries.
Across the Central and West Mediterranean
UNHCR cooperated with more than
15 States of origin, transit and destination
in sub-Saharan and North Africa to
strengthen presence, protection and
solutions, including resettlement
opportunities for people of concern on
the move. A key part of UNHCR’s strategic
response was the use of resettlement
and, in the case of Libya, humanitarian
evacuations of individuals in need of
international protection including through
Emergency Transit Mechanisms or
Emergency Transit Centres to Italy,
Niger, Romania and Rwanda. In total
2,029 refugees were evacuated from
Libya in 2019: 393 to Italy, 878 to Niger,
452 to Romania and 306 to Rwanda.
UNHCR also strengthened access to family
reunification activities for children at risk
through the pilot project "Live, Learn and
Participate". In total, 597 cases were
identified in Egypt, Ethiopia, Libya and
Sudan, 129 of which were formally assessed
and 64 referred for legal services.
Countering the role of human traffickers in
the often-dangerous movements of people
of concern to UNHCR and migrants,
UNHCR intensified efforts with partners,
including IOM, UNODC, the Task Team of
the Global Protection Cluster on Trafficking
and the Inter-Agency Coordination Group
against Trafficking in Persons. Such efforts
included the development of practical tools
and guidance, including the UNHCR-IOM

framework to develop standard operating
procedures to facilitate the identification
and protection of victims of trafficking.
They also analyzed gaps in protection
and assistance for victims of trafficking,
including in refugee settings and situations
of internal displacement. UNHCR delivered
training on asylum and migration-related
topics, including the Mixed Movement
Learning Programme, to increase
meaningful engagement by staff and
partners in protection work for refugees
and responses to migration that reflect
human rights standards and effective,
principled migration management strategies.

Constraints and unmet needs
The complexity and scale of challenges
in the area of asylum and migration
require strategic, multi-actor responses.
As conditions and mobility patterns
evolved in different parts of the world in
2019, up-to-date information and analytical
capacity were needed, alongside resources
to develop and advise States and other
partners on responses. This required
specialist resources that could be adapted
continuously and expertise in UNHCR’s
field operations, bureaux and Headquarters.
In an environment where many competing
priorities exist for UNHCR, ensuring scope
for these proved challenging.
SEA ARRIVALS TO ITALY COMPARED
TO ESTIMATED NUMBER OF DEAD
AND MISSING PEOPLE ALONG
THE ROUTE | 2014 -2019
200,000

5,000
4,000

150,000

3,000
100,000
2,000
50,000

1,000
0

0

2014

2015
Sea arrivals

2016

2017

2018

2019

Dead and missing

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 163

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

ALTERNATIVES TO DETENTION

Alternatives to detention
© UNHCR/Mohamed Alalem

Legislative reform, new regulations and
effective partnerships led to the piloting of
new alternatives to detention in several
focus countries, including Canada,
Indonesia, Mexico, Lithuania and the United
Kingdom. Several of these programmes
allow community-based solutions to be
developed, in partnership with civil society.

Conditions of detention that meet
international standards
Immigration detention monitoring was
strengthened in a number of countries,
including Indonesia, North Macedonia and
South Africa.

Vulnerable refugees prepare for evacuation from Libya to Rwanda.

Across the 20 focus countries, UNHCR’s "Global strategy - beyond detention 2014-2019" was instrumental in:
Securing legal and policy
developments aimed at
improving detention
safeguards and developing
alternatives to detention

Passing or introducing
laws that limited or ended
the immigration detention
of asylum-seeking and
refugee children

The end of 2019 marked the finalization
of UNHCR’s “Global strategy - beyond
detention 2014-2019”. Important progress
was made in its 20 focus countries across
the three goals of ending child detention;
ensuring alternatives to detention are
available to asylum-seekers; and promoting
conditions of detention that meet
international standards.

Ending child detention
Most of the 20 participating countries
passed laws or introduced high-level policy
164 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Strengthening immigration
detention monitoring

decisions limiting or ending the immigration
detention of asylum-seeking and refugee
children. Such prohibitions are now legally
enshrined in Canada, Malta, Mexico
and the United Kingdom. Non-detention
of asylum-seeking and refugee children
is also the practice in Israel, Lithuania
and Zambia. Bulgaria, Malaysia and
Mexico made progress towards providing
special protection and assistance for
unaccompanied and separated children,
including appropriate care arrangements
and the introduction of child-sensitive
screening and referral procedures.

In addition to concrete achievements in
focus countries, the Global Strategy served
to consolidate clear and consistent
protection messages regarding the
detention of asylum-seekers and other
people of concern. It also provided a strong
platform for dialogue, capacity-building,
practical cooperation and advocacy with
governments and other key stakeholders in
implementing countries. Similarly, it fostered
the development of a capacitated and
engaged global community of practice.
While the Global Strategy came to a formal
conclusion at the end of 2019, UNHCR will
continue to pursue its three key goals and
build on its achievements and momentum.
In doing so, UNHCR will capitalize on the
regionalization of its bureaux to anchor
detention work closer to the field, and
maintain the partnerships established or
strengthened in 2019 at global, regional
and country level.
More broadly, developing and strengthening
a wide range of partnerships was crucial in
implementing the Strategy. At a global
level, this included the renewal of the
memorandum of understanding between
UNHCR and the International Detention

Coalition (IDC), reaffirming each actor’s
commitment to promoting effective
alternatives to detention and to working
together in the fields of monitoring, research,
advocacy and capacity-building. In addition,
UNHCR assumed co-leadership, along with
IDC and UNICEF, of the Working Group on
Alternatives to Detention set up under the
umbrella of the UN Network on Migration.
The working group will focus on consolidating
good practices and common positions and
guidelines, as well as establishing a
government peer-learning platform to
improve States’ capacity to develop and
use alternatives to migration detention.
As a member of the advisory board to the
UN global study on children deprived of
liberty, UNHCR provided input and
practical examples to the report, which was
presented, along with recommendations,
to the United Nations General Assembly
in October 2019.

Constraints and unmet needs
Despite progress, immigration detention
of children remains a challenge in many
countries, including in border and transit
zones, during the asylum procedure
and in the context of return procedures.
Exacerbating this challenge, accurate
global-level data on immigration-related
detention is unavailable, for children or
adults, as administrative records are limited
in many immigration contexts and
appropriate systems for data collection
often do not exist nationally.
While alternatives to detention have been
introduced in several countries, discrepancies
between legislation and practice persist,
creating uncertainty for asylum-seekers and
challenges to judicial oversight. In several
countries, conditions of detention fall short
of international standards and intermingling
of asylum-seekers with criminal offenders
remains a problem.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 165

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

94

20

States parties to the 1954 Statelessness Convention,
and 74 States parties to the 1961 Convention,
compared to 83 and 61 respectively at the start
of the #IBelong Campaign in 2014

States established dedicated statelessness
determination procedures, compared to 9 at
the start of the #IBelong Campaign

92

81,074

States reported reliable quantitative data
on stateless persons, compared to 77 at
the start of the #IBelong Campaign

individuals who were formerly stateless
acquired nationality or had their nationality
confirmed, compared to 37,100 at the start of
the #IBelong Campaign

2019 saw some of the most significant
progress in preventing and resolving
statelessness since 2014. The granting
of nationality to some 81,100 stateless
persons represented the key achievement
of 2019. The Kyrgyz Republic became the
first country to resolve all known cases of
statelessness on its territory, having
granted nationality to 13,700 stateless
persons over the last five years. This
remarkable achievement can be attributed
to the close collaboration between
government authorities, civil society
organizations and UN agencies and
illustrates what can be done when political
will is matched with dedicated support.
Considerable progress was also made in
other countries in Central Asia, such as
in Tajikistan, where a large statelessness
identification and reduction programme
is underway following the example of the
Kyrgyz Republic. Elsewhere, in the Asia and
the Pacific region, significant reductions
were achieved in Malaysia and Thailand.

Thousands

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

Sama Bajau children, an indigenous and nomadic ethnic group at risk of statelessness, play in the Valle Vista resettlement community, near Zamboanga city,
Mindanao, the Philippines. It is estimated that around 85% of the Sama Bajau in Zamboanga have no birth certificates. UNHCR and UNICEF have launched a pilot
project to register 1,500 Sama Bajau and provide them with birth certificates.

facilitated naturalization of stateless
persons in Argentina; and the removal
of barriers to birth registration in a large
number of countries with significant
populations of persons at risk of
statelessness. UNHCR also continued
supporting States in establishing and
improving statelessness determination
procedures, including Argentina and
Panama.

stateless persons, preventing statelessness
by removing gender discriminatory
provisions in nationality laws, ensuring
universal birth registration, providing
protection to stateless persons, and
enhancing or initiating data collection on
stateless populations. These pledges
gave a strong boost to the #IBelong
Campaign and the implementation of
the accompanying Global Action Plan to
End Statelessness.

Deepening existing partnerships to
address statelessness, UNHCR worked
with the World Bank on a groundbreaking
new study on the socioeconomic
implications of statelessness among the
Shona minority group in Kenya. The
“Friends of the #IBelong Campaign”,
a group of States represented by their
Geneva-based Permanent Missions, raised
awareness on the issue of statelessness,
including through their participation in the
Universal Periodic Review. UNHCR also
80
maintained its collaboration with the
70
Inter-Parliamentary
Union, working with
68.8
56.5
56.4
parliamentarians
to help them
more
60
49.1
effectively address issues of statelessness.
50
37.1
40
30
2014
2015 WHO
2016HAVE
2017
2018
2019
INDIVIDUALS
ACQUIRED
A NATIONALIT Y | 2014
-2019
Individuals

Thousands

PREVENTING AND RESPONDING TO STATELESSNESS

100
81.1
80
60.8
60

Results of the
High-Level
Segment on
Statelessness

To mark the mid-point of the #IBelong
Campaign to End Statelessness, a High-Level
Segment on Statelessness was convened as
th

part of UNHCR’s 70 Executive Committee.
An unprecedented 360 pledges were
submitted by States, international and
regional organizations, and civil society

166 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

organizations to accelerate progress in
preventing and resolving statelessness.
In particular, 66 States made 252 concrete,
time-bound commitments to prevent and
resolve statelessness. These included
acceding to or ratifying the UN Statelessness
Conventions, facilitating naturalization of

With technical support from UNHCR,
13 States reformed their nationality laws,
policies and procedures to close gaps
leading to statelessness in 2019. Important
examples include the passage of a law in
Latvia automatically granting citizenship
to children born to “non-citizens”;
the adoption of provisions allowing for

For more
information on
statelessness, see
Chapter 6 of the
2019 Global
Trends report

40
20

56.5

56.4

2017

2018

GLOBAL FORCED
DISPLACEMENT
TRENDS IN 2019

49.1
37.1

2014

2015

2016

2019

Individuals

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 167

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Unmet needs and constraints

Despite these efforts however, the number
of States reporting statelessness data
decreased in 2019. In December, UNHCR
and UNFPA co-convened a global expert
meeting on improving official statistics on
statelessness in Thailand to enhance the

REGISTRATION, DOCUMENTATION
AND IDENTITY MANAGEMENT

capacity of national statistics offices
to collect data on stateless persons.
Work to develop a handbook with
recommendations on the production
of statistics on statelessness will
continue in 2020.

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

The key unknown in UNHCR’s work to
resolve statelessness remains the actual
number of stateless persons around
the world. Current statistics cover only
76 countries, with 4.2 million stateless
persons captured. With the true global
figure estimated to be significantly higher,
a key priority in 2019 was to improve data
on statelessness. Working to remedy
this, UNHCR supported studies on
statelessness in Côte d’Ivoire and Mali,
while questions on statelessness featured
for the first time in censuses in Kenya
and Niger.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

In 2019, there were four accessions to
the UN Statelessness Conventions, with
many States pledging to accede to the
Conventions in 2020 and throughout the
remainder of the #IBelong Campaign.
UNHCR’s advocacy to address
statelessness was negatively affected
by the rise of xenophobia and pernicious
forms of nationalism in many parts of the
world. Going forward, it will be critical to
continue making the strongest possible
case for inclusive societies and, specifically,
the removal of discriminatory provisions
in nationality laws, civil registration laws
and related procedures and practices.

Rohingya refugees in Nayapara camp are registered using the Biometric Identity Management System (BIMS) in a joint exercise between UNHCR
and the Government of Bangladesh.

Under a new measure enacted by the
Government of Colombia, children born in
Colombia to Venezuelan parents are now granted
Colombian nationality. This eliminates barriers to
accessing education, health care and other vital rights
enjoyed by Colombian citizens. Thanks to the measure—
which went into effect in August 2019, will remain valid for
two years, and retroactively includes babies born since
January 2015—some 27,000 children born in Colombia to
Venezuelan parents are now acquiring Colombian
nationality.
UNHCR, IOM and UNICEF have pitched in to help pay for
extra personnel at some of the registrar’s
offices with the heaviest workloads. The goal
is to finish modifying all eligible children’s
birth certificates by the end of the year.

168 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

© UNHCR/Daniel Dreifuss

Colombia gives Venezuelan newborns
a start in life

2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

10.2

8.8

73

million individual
records migrated/registered in
proGres v4

million individual records
biometrically registered
in BIMS

country operations using
proGres v4

compared to 4.1 million in 2018

compared to 7.2 million in 2018

compared to 45 in 2018

69

14

country operations using
BIMS and Irisguard

country operations using
UNHCR’s Global
Distribution Tool

compared to 60 in 2018

compared to 7 in 2018

The registration and identification of
refugees is key for the people concerned,
as well as for States to know who has
arrived. It facilitates access to basic
assistance and protection and enables the
early identification of individuals at

heightened risk. Being registered can
protect against refoulement, arbitrary
arrest and detention; it helps keep
families together; and it assists UNHCR
in reuniting separated children with
their families.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 169

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

At the centre of UNHCR’s work with
registration and identity management is
PRIMES, UNHCR’s digital Population
Registration and Identity Management
Ecosystem. The interoperable use of
PRIMES tools, including providing partners
with secure access to data for continuity of
identity in resettlement case management,
digital distribution processes and biometric
identity verification, has had tangible
benefits. Incidents of misrepresentation,
recycling and multiple distribution have
been mitigated, leading to overall savings
in assistance and assurance that aid is
channeled and provided to beneficiaries.
In 2019, proGres v4 (UNHCR’s web-based
registration and case management
database, and a key component of PRIMES)
was deployed to an additional 28 country
operations, taking the overall number using
the tool to 73. As part of this, the records of
10.2 million individuals of concern to
UNHCR were registered or migrated to the
system, up from 4.1 million at the end of
2018.

DATA
TRANSFORMATION
STRATEGY
2020-2025
Supporting
protection and
solutions

INDIVIDUAL RECORDS REGISTERED BY
UNHCR | 2015 -2019
Millions

UNHCR’s Data
Transformation
Strategy
2020-2025

12
10.4

10
8

8.8

September 2019

6
4
2
0

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Individual records migrated/registered in proGres v4
Individual records biometrically registered in BIMS/IrisGuard

170 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Additionally, PRIMES’ Biometric and
Identity Management System was rolled
out to a further nine countries, taking to
69 the number of operations biometrically
enrolling populations of concern, and the
number of individual records to 8.8 million,
up from 7.2 million at the end of 2018.
UNHCR supported its field operations by
providing training, negotiating data sharing
agreements with partners and responding
to emergencies. Eleven registration and
data management specialists were
deployed to emergencies in Bangladesh,
Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Niger and
Rwanda. They supported the planning,
preparation and implementation of
emergency registration activities and
facilitated refugee access to documentation,
protection and assistance. To strengthen
operations’ capacities to carry out
continuous registration, population
verification and preparations for PRIMES
tools, a roster was established with the
Danish Refugee Council resulting in
the deployment of seven registration
specialists to Djibouti, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Israel, Malawi,
the Republic of the Congo, and Rwanda.

medical checks and departures were the
same as those who, prior to entering the
resettlement process, were originally
registered by UNHCR's robust and proven
procedures. This process, used for
example by the Government of the United
States, will be expanded to other
resettlement States in 2020.
In 2019, UNHCR strengthened its
engagement with strategic partners to
promote the inclusion of all people of
concern to UNHCR, including those at risk
of statelessness, in governments’ digital
identity management systems. It also
promoted greater recognition of refugees’
identity credentials to access public and
private sector services, including financial
services. It undertook an online consultation
project, in partnership with the
Government of Canada and a wide range
of external partners, on how digital identity
can provide greater opportunities for
refugees and asylum-seekers, allowing
them to better contribute to their host
communities. The findings were presented
at the Global Refugee Forum and are

contributing to a five-year action plan, in
line with UNHCR’s “Data transformation
strategy 2020-2025".

Constraints and unmet needs
Interoperability between PRIMES and
the systems and databases of other
humanitarian actors, including UNICEF
and WFP, was slower than anticipated.
Additional interoperability resources,
such as the Joint Excellence Hub and the
UN Common Cash Statement will, however,
become available in early 2020 to
accelerate progress.
Other PRIMES development initiatives
had to be deprioritized in 2019 due to
competing priorities. These initiatives
included the centralization of UNHCR’s
Global Distribution Tool (GDT), which
provides UNHCR and partners (including
WFP) with secure access to its biometric
database for identity verification purposes
during aid distributions, for example. Other
initiatives that were put on hold in 2019
included the developments of mobile
applications for both BIMS and the GDT.

The Global
Virtual Summit
on Digital Identity
for Refugees

UNHCR also developed a secure platform
to share biographic and biometric data
with key resettlement countries, thereby
improving the resettlement
case submission process. In support
of resettlement applications, UNHCR
shared the biometric records of over
25,000 people of concern with key
resettlement States using this data transfer
platform. This provided greater assurance
that individuals undertaking interviews,

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 171

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

AGE, GENDER AND DIVERSITY-INCLUSIVE PROGRAMMING
© UNHCR/Aristophane Ngargoune

UNHCR’s AGD policy and its 10 core
actions promote participation and
non-discrimination, recognizing that each
person of concern has unique capacities
and priorities and faces different protection
risks. Supporting the continued roll-out of the
policy, a stock-taking and self-assessment tool
was piloted in 15 operations, while an AGD
policy monitoring tool, to record and track
progress on the 10 core actions through
19 indicators, was also developed and
field-tested in six operations.

In Chad, a UNHCR staff member begins the process of registering newly-arrived Sudanese refugees.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

510

15

4

participatory
assessments reported
across UNHCR operations

operations in the
Americas, East Africa
and the Middle East
and North Africa benefited from
UNHCR’s AGD policy roll-out

Programming for
Protection learning
programmes implemented,
benefiting 95 participants
of multi-functional teams in
4 operations

28

70+

operations supporting
refugee, IDP, returnee and
stateless populations
reported progress in the
disaggregation of data by age,
sex and diversity

refugees participated in
the Global Refugee Forum
through panels and speakers’
corner presentations

Participatory approaches remain a critical
component of UNHCR’s age, gender
and diversity (AGD) and community-based
protection approaches, which are

172 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

some operations applying particularly
creative participatory methods. For example,
in Rwanda, interactive activities and
games with children, including theatre,
photography and painting workshops,
led to increased engagement and
feedback. In Lebanon, 129 refugees were
mobilized as evaluators to help increase
refugee engagement in the monitoring
and evaluation of programmes. By the
end of 2019, this practice was expanded
to different sectors, such as water,
sanitation and hygiene.

To account for the differing needs of
people of concern, UNHCR collected, as
contextually appropriate, data disaggregated
by age, sex and diversity, for both analysis
and programming purposes. In 2019,
28 operations reported progress
disaggregating data by age, sex and
diversity. Moreover, all three UNHCR-led
or co-led clusters—protection, shelter
and CCCM—ensured that data collected for
needs analyses and response planning was
disaggregated by age, gender and
increasingly, disability.

Over 70 refugees participated in the
Global Refugee Forum through panels
and speakers’ corner presentations.
They advocated and provided insight
and guidance on the unique needs of
women, youth, children, persons with
disability and others of diverse
backgrounds. Their engagement was
sought both in the preparations leading up
to and at the Forum.

Constraints and unmet needs
It is often difficult to collect disaggregated
data reflective of the true diversity of a
population, meaning not only age and
gender, but also identifying who within it
may need particular assistance because of
a disability, belonging to a particular ethnic
group, or because of sexual preference.
Where disaggregated data is not available,
this may result in programmes that are
inadequately responsive to all the
community’s needs.
Though data is typically disaggregated by
age, its collection by differing age groups
represented a challenge to UNHCR in
2019. This resulted in certain populations
and their needs, such as youth, going
unidentified and, therefore, overlooked.
Due to limited funding, emerging priorities
and the need to reprioritize activities,
the development of the updated AGD
e-learning programme was postponed
to 2020.

UNHCR’s Policy
on Age, Gender
and Diversity

UNHCR POLICY
ON AGE, GENDER
AND DIVERSITY

implemented across its operations. Globally,
510 UNHCR-led participatory assessments,
inclusive of all people of concern, were
reported across operations in 2019, with

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 173

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

COMMUNITY-BASED PROTECTION
© UNHCR/Adrienne Surprenant

UNHCR, refugees, host communities and
local authorities. In Italy, the PartecipAzione
programme expanded to 11 regions, targeting
145 refugees (50% women) affiliated with
69 community-based organizations with
training to reinforce communication,
fundraising, international protection,
project management and administration
activities. More than 6,000 people directly
benefitted from these micro-projects.
In the Syrian Arab Republic, UNHCR
provided protection responses through
98 community centres and 33 satellite centres
in 12 governorates, as a result of which
619,051 vulnerabilities were recorded.
UNHCR’s capacity at country level to
implement community-based protection
was also supported through the
community-based protection learning
programme, which targeted 75 participants.
In addition, a community-based protection
online training module was launched in
November 2019.

Members of Women Standing, an association that helps widows and orphans, both Christian and Muslim, overcome trauma and rebuild their lives, celebrate
Mother's Day in Begoua, near Bangui in the Central African Republic.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

33

29

operations reported a higher percentage of
implemented programme priorities identified
by community members

operations reported a higher percentage of
people of concern represented in leadership
management structures

Constraints and unmet needs
24

4,235

operations reported a greater percentage of
host community members' expressions of
support for the continued presence of people
of concern

community groups supported by UNHCR
operations across all regions, while 1,620
community self-management structures were
strengthened in 45 operations

Effective community-based protection
requires time, resources and constant

innovation to adapt to rapidly changing
contexts. While the community-based
protection learning programme allowed
for this knowledge exchange, funding
constraints limited the number of staff
who could join the programme in 2019.
Support for community-based mechanisms
was also challenged by funding limitations
as well as context-specific realities, such
as places where outreach and meaningful
participation was hindered by insecurity
and/or restrictions imposed by authorities.
Where such limitations prevailed, and
indeed more broadly, UNHCR invested
in innovative means of outreach and
communication, including with those
it has limited or no direct contact with.
For example, UNHCR operations in
Egypt, Lebanon and Venezuela
(Bolivarian Republic of) used WhatsApp
to communicate key messages and receive
information from communities. In Algeria,
UNHCR started working on a feedback and
complaint system using the KoBo toolbox
as an additional means of seeking and
collecting feedback in challenging
environments from people of concern.

Delivering through partnerships

Efforts in 2019 to ensure proximity and
foster meaningful participation through
community-based approaches included
supporting community action plans, building
leadership and project management skills,
174 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

diversifying communication and outreach
channels, and strengthening community
self-management and self-protection structures.
In Bangladesh, for example, community
outreach volunteers reached
598,405 refugees with messaging on
protection and emergency preparedness,
and 554 religious leaders were engaged
to positively influence the behavioural
norms of their communities. In Jordan,
26 community centres and community
support committees in the camps and urban
areas served as protection hubs and provided
a platform for structured dialogue between

©UNHCR/Jean-Jacques Soha

People of concern are powerful agents
of their own protection and UNHCR
is committed to ensuring their central
participation in decisions that affect their
lives. To strengthen this important work in
its operations, UNHCR ensured dedicated
community-based protection expertise and
capacity was embedded in each of the
seven newly-established regional bureaux.

Strengthening neighborhood policing in Bele refugee settlement
in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
In Haut Uele Province, which hosts high numbers of South Sudanese refugees, a joint pilot project is underway
between UNHCR, UNDP and UNPOL.
The project is designed to reinforce local governance, rule of law, community-based protection and the local economy
by building the capacity of local authorities to protect communities. It involves 150 people from the local administration, police, the army, civil
jurisdictions, traditional chiefs and others in and around the new Bele refugee settlement, to which South Sudanese refugees are being relocated.
UNDP contributes by putting in place neighborhood policing structures, such as local peace and development committees. Under UNDP’s
supervision, UNPOL reinforces the technical and operational capacities of the police with training to ensure the respect of six key principles—
proximity, partnership, prevention, resolution of problems, accountability, and respect of human rights. Modules cover topics such as escorting
refugees, ensuring security in refugee settlements, respect of human rights, prevention and response to sexual and gender-based violence,
protection and more. UNHCR supports income-generating activities, with a focus on women and youth.
“Even the most experienced trainers saw this training as a plus. It has already helped us in our ways of working and dealing with refugees.”
—Major Saidi Mwinji Kaslow, Deputy Superior Commissioner of the Faradje police, trained at the police school in Ituri Province in November 2019.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 175

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

GENDER EQUALITY
© UNHCR/Vania Turner

Somali high school students share a joke during computer lessons at Ifo Secondary School in Dadaab, Kenya's largest and oldest refugee camp.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

56%
of situations reporting on UNHCR’s global strategic priority indicator for female participation had either
improved or maintained the percentage of female participants in leadership and management structures

UNHCR's COMMITMENTS TO WOMEN AND GIRLS

1

Women and girls
participate equally
and meaningfully in all
decision making,
community
management and
leadership structures,
and committees of
people of concern.

UNHCR’s Policy
on Age, Gender
and Diversity

2

Women and girls
are provided with
individual registration
and documentation,
directly or through
support provided by
UNHCR.

3

Women and girls
have equal
access to and control
over management and
provision of food, core
relief items, and
cash-based
interventions.

Guided by UNHCR’s five updated
commitments to women and girls, as
outlined in the 2018 Age, Gender and
Diversity Policy, the Office continued to
promote and strengthen gender equality

UNHCR POLICY
ON AGE, GENDER
AND DIVERSITY

throughout its operational work.
A priority was to ensure women’s equal
and meaningful participation in all
decision making, community management
and leadership structures, as well as

176 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

4

Women and girls
have equal
access to economic
opportunities, decent
work, and quality
education and health
services.

5

Women and girls
have access to
comprehensive SGBV
prevention and
response services.

committees of people of concern.
Operations, including in Burkina Faso,
Egypt, India, Malaysia, Nepal and Uganda,
made specific efforts to provide individual
registration and documentation, with an
emphasis on women. In Liberia and
Zambia, efforts were made to ensure equal
access to and control over assistance,
for example by including women on
distribution committees. Access to
economic opportunities and education

services was promoted in operations
including in Burkina Faso, Jordan, Uganda
and Yemen, where daycare in camps and
community centres allowed mothers
to continue their studies and engage
in livelihood activities. Operations also
worked with community structures to
identify sexual and gender-based violence
(SGBV) risks and support prevention and
response mechanisms.
UNHCR focused on increasing
organizational gender equality capacity
and strengthened its staff’s ability to
respond effectively to gender equality
concerns across operational contexts.
Colleagues from operations across Africa
participated in the third cohort of UNHCR’s
gender equality learning programme,
enhancing their capacity to function
as technical gender focal points and
advocates within operations.
To enable cross-operational learning and
inspire action to advance gender equality,
promising practices were documented and
shared. This includes promising practices
on gender equality from the Asia and the
Pacific region, as well as a study on barriers
to IDP women and girls’ participation in
humanitarian settings. The findings from
the study were shared with staff and
partners through a webinar, which was part
of a series celebrating the 20th anniversary

of the Guiding Principles on Internal
Displacement. Operations also received
guidance on how to apply the Gender with
Age Marker to the operational planning
process to strengthen gender equality
integration in UNHCR programmes.
The marker is also used to strengthen
gender equality integration in projects
included in Humanitarian Response
Planning in inter-agency IDP responses.

Learning from
experience to
advance gender
equality: Promising
practices in Asia

Constraints and unmet needs
Deeply rooted and restrictive gender
norms, discriminatory practices and
structural barriers frequently prevent
refugee women, internally displaced
women and other women of concern
to UNHCR from realizing their rights
and participating meaningfully in the
decision-making and leadership structures
impacting their lives and communities.
UNHCR and partners must continuously
strengthen and innovate when working
with women and girls, their families and
communities to maximize the change
opportunities present in displacement
contexts and to progressively and
positively address entrenched and
restrictive norms. This includes seeking
out strategic partnerships around gender
equality and partnering with local
women’s rights organizations.

LEARNING FROM
EXPERIENCE TO ADVANCE
GENDER EQUALITY
Promising practices in Asia

Tearing down the
walls: Confronting
the barriers to
internally displaced
women and girl’s
participation in
humanitarian
settings

TEARING
DOWN THE WALLS

© UNHCR/Andrew McConnell

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

CONFRONTING THE BARRIERS TO INTERNALLY DISPLACED
WOMEN AND GIRLS’ PARTICIPATION IN HUMANITARIAN
SETTINGS

Gender audit of the Global Refugee Forum 
UNHCR promoted global-level participation and leadership of refugee women through support for a
gender audit of the Global Refugee Forum and the processes leading up to it. Led by refugee women,
the audit drew attention to gender equality-related challenges in refugee contexts. It sought to ensure the
commitments made to refugee women and girls in the Global Compact on Refugees were acknowledged and
integrated concretely through the Forum pledging process and by identifying good practices. Throughout
the preparatory meetings, and at the Forum itself, the gender audit team documented the way gender
equality, age, gender, diversity and SGBV were addressed by different stakeholders across key thematic
areas. The team also provided specific recommendations on how to effectively implement and monitor
pledges focusing on these areas.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 177

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

CHILD PROTECTION, YOUTH ENGAGEMENT AND EMPOWERMENT
© UNHCR/Antoine Tardy

collaboration to respond to the needs of
refugee and migrant children.
Demonstrating its commitment to IDPs
at country level, UNHCR built up case
management capacity in Iraq and enhanced
the child protection expertise of 174 staff
from a local NGO working with IDP children,
as well as staff from the Federal Ministry of
Labour and Social Affairs and the Directorate
of Social Affairs. Staff were coached on child
protection and case management at tailored
child protection training sessions and
peer-to-peer discussions.

Scaling up best interests procedures
and improving case management
Rohingya children participate in "Essence of Learning" activities in one of Caritas’s child-friendly spaces in Kutupalong refugee camp in Bangladesh.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

In 25 operations,
the proportion of
unaccompanied or separated
refugee children for whom a Best
Interests Procedure was completed
or initiated increased

In 18 operations,
non-discriminatory access
to national child protection
and social services for refugee
children was improved

55,769

compared to 32 operations in 2018

compared to 22 operations in 2018

best interests assessments
were conducted in
63 operations

551

18

children's committees,
groups and other
structures were supported across
19 operations

youth-led initiatives
were supported under UNHCR’s
Youth Initiative Fund

compared to 763 such structures
across 18 operations in 2018

compared to 25 in 2018

Working with national authorities, civil
society, communities and children
themselves, in 2019 UNHCR protected
displaced and stateless children and youth
by strengthening national systems, scaling
up best interests procedures and improving
case management, and empowering and
engaging youth, children and communities.

Strengthening national systems
At the Global Refugee Forum, 36 pledges
related to child protection and youth
178 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

compared to 62,790 in
57 operations in 2018

empowerment were made, with concrete
initiatives from States including greater
inclusion of refugee children in national
child protection and birth registration
systems, ending child detention and
ensuring family unity. Progress was made
regionally, too, with UNHCR supporting
Member States of the East Africa
Community and the Intergovernmental
Authority on Development to strengthen
their inclusion of refugees in national child
systems. It also promoted cross-border

Despite UNHCR's work to scale up access
to, and improve the quality of, best interests
procedures and other child-friendly
procedures, during the last three years
the number of best interests assessments
undertaken has decreased (from 65,561 in
2017 to 55,769 in 2019), while the number
of unaccompanied and separated children
in need has continued to increase. This has
led to a widening gap between needs and
access to services. Operations have cited
a lack of both staffing and comprehensive,
community-based programmes for children
that allow for the effective identification
and support of unaccompanied and
separated children, and for other children
at risk.
UNHCR's investment in timely identification
and referral of children at risk, alongside
quality best interests assessments, has
been essential to improving the quality
of care for children at risk. For example,
UNHCR worked in the Syrian Arab Republic
with ILO and the Ministry of Social Affairs
and Labour to offer specialized case
management services in support of
489 IDP children engaged in the worst
forms of child labour. Of these children,
10% returned to school, 8% enrolled in

vocational training and 47% joined remedial
classes with the objective of returning to
school in 2020.

Empowering and engaging youth,
children and communities
UNHCR improved the linkages between
case management for refugee children
and family strengthening initiatives, in line
with guidance from the Global Partnership
to End Violence Against Children. In
Uganda, UNHCR reinforced alternative
care monitoring for unaccompanied and
separated children and positive parenting
activities. UNHCR and partners trained
1,148 stakeholders to identify children at
risk and implemented the Best Interests
Procedure for individual children in need
of targeted support. Together, they also
conducted positive parenting training
for 15,027 parents and caregivers, and
awareness sessions on ending violence
against children for 10,921 community
members and 2,566 adolescents.
UNHCR supported a range of initiatives
to strengthen youth leadership and action,
including through youth-led projects,
the Global Youth Advisory Council,
and capacity building for youth. In 2019,
UNHCR funded 18 youth-led projects
in 16 countries under the Youth Initiative
Fund. Some 900 refugees, host community
and IDP youths identified creative solutions
to address the protection problems they
faced, including sexual and gender-based
violence, child protection, integration with
host communities, and the lack of
education and livelihood opportunities.

Coordination, knowledge, and
information management
UNHCR strengthened information
management capacity for child protection to
maximize resources, ensuring smarter, more
effective and evidence-based programming.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 179

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Constraints and unmet needs
In promoting inclusion in national child
protection systems, challenges remained
due to the complexity of the issues and
involvement by stakeholders. Legal, policy
or procedural barriers often prevented
access to child protection systems and
services. Where national child protection
systems were accessible to refugees
and other children of concern, key service
providers often lacked the knowledge
and capacity to effectively coordinate and
respond to the complex protection needs
of these children.

PROTECTING PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
AND OLDER PERSONS

For UNHCR and its governmental and NGO
partners, a commonly cited challenge in
providing quality case management for
children at risk was insufficient staffing.
Further challenges included sudden
increases in the numbers of unaccompanied
and separated children and their onward
movement in crises; little support for foster
families; lack of access to unaccompanied
and separated children in detention; limited
capacity on best interests procedures;
limited availability of durable solutions
and specialized services; and weak
national systems.

© UNHCR/Jim Huylebroek

Such investments resulted in 30 UNHCR
operations using the child protection module
in proGres v4, UNHCR’s case management
software, up from 16 at the end of 2018.
At the end of 2019, 8,047 child protection
cases were entered in proGres v4,
a 150% increase compared to 2018.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

There is a strong foundation of innovative
approaches to youth programming across
UNHCR. However, no streamlined way exists
to capture youth-disaggregated data across
humanitarian agencies. This continued lack
of a common means to systematically track
progress and ensure accountability for
the implementation of the Core Actions for
Youth is hampering further progress.
Refugees returning to Afghanistan from Pakistan rebuild despite challenges.

Delivering through partnerships

From May 2019 to February 2020, UNHCR teamed up with
the Scort Foundation and the FCSA—the Football Club Social Alliance,
a network of European football clubs from Austria, Germany and
Switzerland—to implement the Young Coach Education Programme
in Mexico.
This programme, which in the past few years has been rolled out in
conflict-affected, post-war or developing regions around the world, uses football to create positive social change within host
communities like in Mexico by empowering young people to become role models and mentors for children.
Drawn from 15 of UNHCR’s local partners in Mexico, 41 young adults were educated to become so-called Young Coaches—community
leaders and grassroots football coaches for children aged 6-12. They learned how to promote the inclusion of refugees and
asylum-seekers through football, how to pass on important values such as acceptance, openness and tolerance, and thus how
to ease tensions between refugee and host populations.
During the modules, UNHCR and partners provided the Young Coaches with knowledge on relevant social topics such as child
protection and sexual and gender-based violence, which now helps them in their work with youth. To date, the Young Coaches
have passed on their knowledge to 321 peers, and over 7,700 children from both host and refugee populations have benefitted
from these regular activities.

© Scort Foundation

Football providing role models and mentors
for children

2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

30
operations reported progress in the
percentage of older persons of concern who
received services for their needs

Persons with disabilities make up an
estimated 15% of the global population,
although disability prevalence in situations
of forced displacement, particularly among
refugees and other displaced populations,
is estimated to be considerably higher.
The year saw the launch of two new
resources to enhance UNHCR’s capacity to
better protect and respond to the needs of
persons with disabilities in situations of

49
operations reported progress in the
percentage of people of concern with
disabilities who receive services for their needs

forced displacement. The new e-learning
programme provides an understanding
of the rights of persons with disabilities,
offers a foundation to strengthen inclusion,
and suggests practical approaches to
addressing barriers and fostering
participation. The revised need-to-know
guidance on working with persons with
disabilities in situations of forced
displacement presents principles and

FCSA works with UNHCR in five different locations, providing full funding for programmes to use sport education and football
as a tool to help integrate refugee children into their new communities.

180 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 181

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

actions for strengthening UNHCR’s work
across all areas of protection, assistance
and solutions.

Vulnerability
Assessment
Framework:
Population
Study 2019

In line with UNHCR’s Age, Gender and
Diversity Policy, efforts to collect data
disaggregated by age, sex and disability
as a minimum diversity requirement were
strengthened. To better identify persons
with disabilities in Algeria, Lebanon and
Mauritania, UNHCR operations started
using the Washington Group Questions,
a standardized set of questions designed to
identify people with disabilities during
registration activities. In Jordan, these
questions were included in the vulnerability
assessment framework. Data from this
assessment ultimately revealed that up to
21% of Syrian refugees were living with a
disability and 45% of households had
at least one individual with a disability.

At the regional and country levels,
collaboration was strengthened with
national and international disability and
ageing partners, including organizations of
persons with disabilities, the International
Disability Alliance, Humanity and Inclusion
and HelpAge International. For example,
in Lebanon, UNHCR collaborated with
the Lebanese Physically Handicapped Union

182 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

to improve support for those with disabilities
during a humanitarian response. As a result,
the Union signed cooperation protocols
with 97 companies, which began adding
inclusion standards to their employment
policies, as well as ensuring full accessibility
to their buildings. In Yemen, 156 children
with disabilities had access to rehabilitation
and education services in UNHCR-run
early learning centres for children with
disabilities, preparing them to enroll and
learn in formal schools. In Libya, UNHCR
collaborated with Humanity and Inclusion
and four organizations of persons with
disabilities to offer support to refugees and
advocate their inclusion in social activities
and vocational training, as well as their
access to prosthetic devices and information
and awareness raising. Over 860 persons
with disabilities accessed rehabilitation
services.
As a result of UNHCR’s consultations with
organizations of persons with disabilities
to prepare for the Global Refugee Forum,
14 pledges supporting UNHCR’s work on
disability inclusion were made at the
Forum. Commitments, most of which were
global in scope and coverage, included
developing policies and programmes that
are disability inclusive; strengthening
disability-inclusive practices in education
and livelihood projects; supporting the
institutionalization of disability inclusion
in all UNHCR’s activities through greater
technical capacity; and facilitating the
integration of refugees with disabilities.

They also pledged to strengthen the
capacity of organizations of persons with
disabilities for meaningful participation and
leadership, which is expected to generate
an institutional agreement for collaboration
between the International Disability
Alliance and UNHCR in 2020.
Recognizing the need to prioritize work
on disability inclusion, UNHCR invested in
additional staff resources to ensure both
institutional mainstreaming and disability
inclusion at the country level.

Constraints and unmet needs
As displaced populations are often located
in areas of conflict with limited government
infrastructure, persons with disabilities
remain under identified and do not fully

© Courtesy of Bawk Ra

To further advance the Convention on the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities, UNHCR
actively contributed to developing the
UN Disability Inclusion Strategy and the
IASC guidelines on inclusion of persons with
disabilities in humanitarian action.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

access assistance or services. UNHCR’s
methodology used to collect data on
disability still relies heavily on observation
(82% of all data disaggregated by
disability), which is not in line with
international recommendations. As such,
the most pressing constraints identified
in relation to the objectives laid out in
the Global Compact on Refugees include:
the development of harmonized or
interoperable standards for the collection,
analysis, and sharing of age, gender,
disability and diversity disaggregated
data on refugees and returnees;
dedicated human and financial resources;
and expertise to strengthen accessibility
and the provision of reasonable
accommodation in all refugee
responses.

Internally displaced persons with disabilities
share their stories
Since 2017, UNHCR has partnered with
professional photographers to provide a 12-day
masterclass on photo storytelling in Myanmar for
internally displaced people with disabilities and
their caregivers. The project empowers displaced
persons with disabilities by giving them the skills,
confidence and opportunity to tell their story
and advocate for their needs. It also enables
caregivers and frontline humanitarian workers to
raise awareness on disability and the challenges
associated with disability.
In February 2019, Bawk Ra, a young woman who acquired a physical disability when she was five, was
selected to compete in the Yangon Photo Festival and won third prize in the emerging photographers
category. She subsequently shared her skills in photo-training workshops for other displaced persons
living with a disability in IDP camps in Kachin State.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 183

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

PROTECTING LGBTI PERSONS IN FORCED DISPLACEMENT
UNHCR/Diego Ibarra Sánchez

Two Syrian refugees who risked their lives for the sake of love, await resettlement.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

5
regional consultations
organized to better assess
protection risks and priorities
of LGBTI persons in forced
displacement

Partnerships with global,
regional and national
LGBTI stakeholders
established or strengthened
through regional consultations

UNHCR has made steady progress in the last
several years to better protect persons of
diverse sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression and sex characteristics.
These efforts have included issuing guidance
and tools, and developing training that help
create safe spaces and identify solutions
for LGBTI persons of concern.
Despite this progress, in most operations,
many LGBTI refugees, IDPs, stateless
persons and returnees continued to
experience discrimination and abuse.
To counter this, UNHCR operations around
the world invested in better understanding

184 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

50
UNHCR and partner staff
in East Africa benefited
from the LGBTI learning
programme "Working with LGBTI
persons in forced displacement"

of the needs and protection risks faced by
LGBTI persons in forced displacement to
ensure a rights-based and results-oriented
response. This included creating a
welcoming environment in UNHCR and
partner offices, engaging with LGBTI
displaced communities and their
organizations, ensuring communication
and feedback channels are accessible
to them, and that services are available
and accessible for those in need.
In Jordan, for example, UNHCR ensured
its offices were safe for LGBTI persons
and that staff were trained to identify and

address their concerns. Specific measures
included a network of LGBTI-sensitized staff
and fast-track, confidential and specialized
standard operating procedures. Similarly,
in Uganda, UNHCR established and trained
gender and LGBTI focal points in all
settlements, while in the Venezuela
situation, questions on LGBTI protection
risks were included in the protection
monitoring tool used in all countries
involved in the response.

country level. The official UNHCR learning
programme on working with LGBTI persons
in forced displacement was organized with
a primary focus on East Africa. In addition
to the global and regional training initiatives,
operations also organized country-level
training sessions that were contextualized
and adapted to national needs, such as in
Belgium, Israel, Kenya, Mozambique,
Tajikistan and Uganda.

Other operations recruited LGBTI refugees
as outreach workers with the aim of
conducting targeted and low-profile
information sessions that meet the
information needs of LGBTI refugees.
In Thailand, in collaboration with an
operational partner, a peer support group
for LGBTI persons of concern was
established to combat the overwhelming
feelings of isolation often experienced by
individuals in this population. In Ecuador,
UNHCR reviewed its partner’s interview and
registration process to ensure sensitivity
towards LGBTI persons and partnered with
LGBTI organizations to establish safe
spaces.

Constraints and unmet needs

UNHCR continued to invest significantly
in training and capacity-building of staff,
partners, asylum officers and service
providers, both at Headquarters and

In many parts of the world, LGBTI persons
of concern face virulent and often violent
discrimination. Despite all efforts, they
remain a largely under-identified population
and, as such, targeted programmes and
interventions remain limited. Building the
capacity to the required scale of UNHCR
staff, partners, service providers and asylum
adjudicators in this area will require
significant further investment.
While identified LGBTI refugees most at
risk are prioritized for RSD and resettlement,
the reality of shrinking resettlement
opportunities dictates that more effort must
be dedicated to identifying alternatives,
including complementary pathways and
carefully-crafted integration strategies,
where possible.

LGBTI regional consultations across the globe 
Beginning in May 2019, UNHCR embarked on regional consultations in the Americas, Asia and the
Pacific, the Middle East and North Africa, and East and West Africa to gain a contemporary understanding
of the protection risks, perspectives and priorities of LGBTI persons in forced displacement. A wide
range of actors in the LGBTI space were consulted, including civil society advocates and those displaced
with an LGBTI profile. In addition to fostering the creation of new networks and avenues of collaboration,
findings from these consultations will be the basis of a global round table in 2020, aimed at identifying
concrete actions that will advance protection and solutions for LGBTI displaced and stateless persons.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 185

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Responding
with lifesaving
support

During 2019, UNHCR and its partners
responded to the needs of 16.7 million
displaced people affected by multiple and
simultaneous emergencies worldwide. By
mobilizing financial, human and material
resources, and facilitating partnership
engagement, UNHCR responded to refugee
and IDP emergencies, providing protection
and assistance despite challenging security
environments.
Given the scale of needs, UNHCR activated
six new emergencies involving eight countries,
including four L3 and four L2 emergencies.
These included three refugee emergencies,
and three IDP emergencies—one of which
was the response to the natural disaster
and displacement caused by Cyclone Idai—
during which UNHCR boosted its
preparedness and response capacities.
The Office also continued responding to
emergencies activated in the previous
year. However, the pace of emergency
deployments did slow, as emergency
declarations in 31 countries were
deactivated throughout the year.
In 2019, 22 operations reported a high risk
of new or escalated refugee or IDP situations
in the High Alert List for Emergency
Preparedness (HALEP), UNHCR's internal
global repository of preparedness information.
UNHCR completed the Preparedness
Package for IDP emergencies (PPIE), which
is aligned with the Preparedness Package
for Refugee Emergencies (PRRE) and the
IASC’s Emergency Response Preparedness
Approach. The PPIE reaffirms UNHCR’s
commitment to engage more consistently,
predictably and sustainably in situations of
internal displacement, as called for in the
revised IDP Policy issued in September
2019.
A Somali woman carries her baby from a plane
after being evacuated to safety from Tripoli,
Libya, to Rome, Italy.
© UNHCR/Alessandro Penso

186 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

During the decentralization and regionalization
process, UNHCR reviewed its emergency
preparedness and response procedures.

It was decided to keep centralized
management of emergency deployments,
including UNHCR's Emergency
Management Team and Emergency
Response Team (ERT) rosters, ensuring
overall coordination and fast decision
making when deploying additional human
resources to and between regions.
Roles and authorities for emergency
preparedness remained within the operations,
with support and oversight by the regional
bureaux, whereas Headquarters continued
to set preparedness standards and provide
global analysis and technical support, while
engaging in inter-agency preparedness
work. The strategic and analytical capacities
of the bureaux were reinforced. New
thresholds governing procurement and
asset management were introduced, and
the seven regions increased their supply
management capacity. In addition, work
began on a new emergency stockpile
in Panama City to serve emergencies in
the Americas, bringing UNHCR’s global
emergency stockpiles to eight.
This chapter outlines UNHCR’s emergency
response in 2019 and its coordination
of principled, comprehensive and prompt
high-quality lifesaving interventions.
It highlights the progress made, and
challenges faced, in meeting the most
urgent humanitarian and protection needs
of refugees and IDPs, as well as those
of the communities hosting them.

The Preparedness
Package for
Refugee
Emergencies
THE PREPAREDNESS
PACKAGE FOR REFUGEE
EMERGENCIES (PPRE)

In this chapter
•	 Emergency preparedness and response
•	 Global supply management
• 	Prevention and response to sexual and
gender-based violence
• 	Cash assistance
• 	Public health
• 	Nutrition and food security
• 	Water, sanitation and hygiene
• 	Shelter and settlements

A reference guide
for preparedness
Version 2 - 2018

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 187

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Emergencies

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

UNHCR activated six new emergencies affecting eight countries in 2019

Level 3

EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

The Democratic
Republic
of the Congo

IDP emergencies

UNHCR emergency
staff deployed

7

Malawi

Iraq

Niger

Level 2

Burkina Faso

167

Zimbabwe

© UNHCR/Alissa Everett

Mozambique

Costa Rica

Refugee emergencies

102

Emergency standby
partners deployed

Global stockpiles were
used to deliver CRIs

Tents

8

1,094

UNHCR staff & partners trained in
emergency preparedness and response

Emergency airlifts, fulfilling

Solar lamps

122

Eight tons of humanitarian aid arrives at Beira, Mozambique, for distribution to survivors of Cyclone Idai.

Requests

Plastic sheets

10,480

114,505

452,390

Kitchen sets

Thermal blankets

Buckets

250,935

1,052,905

261,813

Jerry cans

Sleeping mats

Mosquito nets

305,376
188 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

751,269

431,345

Preparing for an emergency requires risk
monitoring and preparation, including
scenario-based contingency planning.
In 2019, UNHCR activated six new
emergencies involving eight countries,
including four L3s (the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC), Malawi, Mozambique
and Zimbabwe) and four L2s (Burkina Faso,
Costa Rica, Iraq and Niger). These
activated countries included five IDP
emergencies (Burkina Faso, the DRC,
Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe) and
three refugee emergencies (Costa Rica,
Iraq and Niger).
As some emergencies stabilized in places
like Bangladesh and Uganda, and with the
deactivation of emergencies in 31 countries,

the pace of emergency deployments
slowed in 2019. UNHCR facilitated
269 deployments compared to 420 in
2018, including 167 UNHCR internal
staff, and 102 external staff working for
emergency standby partners.
Most staff deployed (161 or 60%) lent vital
support to UNHCR’s refugee responses,
while most of the others (103 or 38%) joined
efforts to help IDP responses, with 2%
in roving roles. In addition, UNHCR's
Emergency Management Team spent
1,779 days on emergency missions and
747 days providing functional support to
UNHCR operations. More than half of these
emergency deployments (54%) were to
14 countries, including: Burkina Faso,

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 189

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Cameroon, Colombia, the Republic of
the Congo, the DRC, Libya, Mozambique,
Niger, Nigeria, South Sudan and
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
UNHCR signed one new standby
agreement with the Danish Emergency
Management Agency (DEMA) and updated
two agreements with the Swedish Civil
Contingencies Agency (MSB) and IrishAid.
At the end of 2019, the recorded annual
in-kind contribution from the 18 emergency
standby partners stood at nearly $7 million.
The Office also signed memorandums
of understanding for cooperation on
emergency response with EMERCOM—the
Russian Federation’s Ministry for Civil
Defense, Emergencies and Elimination of
Consequences of Natural Disasters—and

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

with AFAD—Turkey’s Disaster and
Emergency Management Authority.
New frame agreements with iMMAP,
REACH and CANADEM strengthened
UNHCR’s capacity to quickly deploy
quality information management experts,
particularly to IDP operations worldwide.

In 2019, UNHCR completed the
Preparedness Package for IDP
emergencies, which is aligned with the
Preparedness Package for Refugee
Emergencies and the IASC Emergency
Response Preparedness Approach. The
tool reflects UNHCR's aim to engage more
consistently, predictably and sustainably in
situations of internal displacement, in both
its coordination and operational roles.

There were 22 operations which reported
a high risk of new or escalating refugee
or IDP situations in the HALEP, with
81% prepared for the risk. New contingency
plans were prepared for 23 country
operations. There were 345 UNHCR
and partner staff trained on emergency
management and who participated in
inter-agency emergency exercises
and workshops.

Field security
UNHCR’s security workforce, made up
of 88 international and more than
250 national security professionals,
ensured security and safety were
integrated as normal functions of the
Office’s operations and activity. In addition
to responding to 311 security incidents,
UNHCR’s security workforce also
supported managers and staff on 12 critical
incidents in 2019, coordinating with the
UN Department of Safety and Security
in New York and government personnel.

Working with standby partners on emergency preparedness and response
Partnership is critical for effective emergency preparedness and response. In 2019, UNHCR
maintained 17 active emergency response partnerships:
•	IrishAid
•	 International Humanitarian Partnership
•	 Norwegian Refugee Council
•	 RedR Australia
•	 Save the Children Norway
•	 Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency
•	 Swiss Agency for Development and
Cooperation
•	 Veolia Environment Foundation
•	 White Helmets Commission

In the course of 2019, three new emergency response partnerships were established:
•	 Danish Emergency Management Agency
•	 Turkey’s Disaster and Emergency
Management Authority

190 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

•	 Russian Federation’s Ministry for Civil
Defense, Emergencies and Elimination
of Consequences of Natural Disasters

Maintaining a robust training programme
remained key to field security work.
In 2019, 749 UNHCR and partner staff were
trained on security-related topics, including

© UNHCR/Filip Pongrac

•	 Bundesanstalt Technisches Hiflswerk
•	CANADEM
•	 Danish Refugee Council
•	 Department for International Development,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland
•	 Directorate for Civil Protection and
Emergency Planning of Norway
•	 Dutch Surge Support Water
•	 Emergency.lu, Luxemburg Ministry of
Foreign Affairs
•	iMMAP

the Security Management Learning
Programme and Women’s Security
Awareness Training. UNHCR also adapted
service delivery to the new, decentralized
organizational model, focusing on effective
field support through the new empowered
regional bureaux. In addition, UNHCR was
represented in key forums, such as
the Inter-Agency Security Management
Network, and it participated in developing
IASC and UN guidance on civil-military
coordination.

Preparedness
Package for IDP
Emergencies

Constraints and unmet needs
Key gaps identified in emergency
preparedness included staffing capacity,
stalled discussions with host governments
regarding their willingness and approach to
receive refugees, and technical expertise
in areas such as site planning, supply and
cash preparedness.
The diverse locations of the emergencies
requiring UNHCR deployments meant
multiple languages (French, Spanish and
English) and profiles were needed, despite
limited resources. This required more staff
time and effort, both from UNHCR and
its partners.

UPS Foundation transports critical
supplies to refugees
In 2019, the UPS Foundation supported
UNHCR through emergency funding to
provide core relief items to affected populations in
the DRC, and through in-kind air charter flights to Malawi,
Niger and Somalia to deliver lifesaving supplies such
as blankets, emergency shelter and sleeping mats.
Since 2010, the UPS Foundation has been a leading
UNHCR corporate partner, contributing funds, services
and expertise in transportation, supply chain logistics
and communications to support refugees and
displaced people across the globe.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 191

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

GLOBAL SUPPLY MANAGEMENT
© UNHCR/Hossein Fatemi

UNHCR dispatches aid and shelter supplies to Bardarash camp in Duhok, Iraq, for Syrian refugees fleeing the north-east of the Syrian Arab Republic.

UNHCR provided timely, cost-effective
support when responding to new and
ongoing emergencies, dispatching
$30 million-worth of emergency core
relief items from seven global stockpiles
to 23 emergency-affected countries.
The top five recipients of this assistance
were the DRC and Yemen (900 tons each),
and Ethiopia, Nigeria and South Sudan
(500 tons each). Global stockpiles were
used during eight emergency airlifts,
fulfilling 122 requests. In addition to the
seven global stockpiles in Accra, Amman,
Copenhagen, Douala, Dubai, Nairobi
and Kampala, work began on an eighth
stockpile in Panama City.
UNHCR’s supply chain provided reliable
and efficient service delivery to new and
ongoing emergencies and field operations
throughout 2019. By merging the
procurement, supply and logistics teams,

192 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

UNHCR developed a responsive, agile
service that allowed more efficient
decision making. This was important given
UNHCR’s newly-decentralized structures,
and in a year when procurement requests
increased from $1.1 billion to $1.14 billion,
including $803 million in the field and
$337 million in Headquarters. UNHCR
also provided contract administration
services for 296 global frame agreements
with international suppliers for a wide
range of relief items, supplies and
services.
In 2019 UNHCR managed 5,150 vehicles
under the centralized global fleet
system—a 23% increase compared with
4,165 vehicles in 2018.
To boost its supply and delivery capacity,
the Office collaborated with partners and
sister UN agencies and remained an active

member of the High-Level Committee on
Management, the UN’s Procurement
Network and the Common Procurement
Activities Group. Collaborative procurement
activities also continued via the United
Nations Global Marketplace and other
stakeholders. Inter-agency partnerships
also grew as UNHCR made greater use
of the opportunity to piggyback on the
common procurement of UN country
teams. The Office also participated in the
UN Global Sustainable Transport Working
Group and took the first steps towards
greening UNHCR’s supply chain through
the United States Agency for International
Development-led, multi-institutional effort
to reduce packaging waste in aid delivery.
The UN Secretary-General remained
committed to reforming the business
practices of the United Nations. The
Business Innovation Group (BIG), which
is one of the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals’ Results Groups,
has been tasked with achieving greater
effectiveness and efficiency by harmonizing
back office functions, expanding common
premises and mutually recognizing policies
across different UN agencies and
organizations. In 2019, UNHCR prioritized
BIG participation, supporting 29 common
office projects to reach the BIG target on
common premises and facility services.
UNHCR organized inter-agency auctions
to responsibly dispose of light vehicles.
Seven sister UN agencies participated, as
did three other humanitarian organizations.
As part of its offer for fleet management
services, UNHCR also developed a pilot
carpool project in Lebanon, in coordination
with other UN agencies. The service
developed a project to optimize fleet size
and cost performance through a carpooling
business model that may also be of interest
within the BIG concept.

Enhancing the supply chain, UNHCR
introduced several automated processes,
and Power BI-based key performance
indicator reports revolutionized its
big data analyses. For more efficient
supply chain planning and forecasting,
UNHCR successfully rolled out Demantra
(a demand management and supply
chain management tool) to more than
20 additional operations covering more
than 90% of the inventory value for further
distribution in 2019. The service provided
supply chain-related, back office support
with updated user guidelines, resolving
more than 3,000 incidents.
Beyond guaranteeing efficient delivery,
UNHCR helped deploy skilled workers to
emergencies and conducted 451 functional
clearances for supply positions worldwide,
to ensure a broader range of more qualified
and diverse UNHCR supply staff.

Constraints and unmet needs
Throughout the year, supply structures
needed continuous strengthening in terms
of numbers of staff, their grade and access
to up-to-date training and learning
opportunities, so staff could effectively
deal with ongoing and emerging crises.
New emergencies in the Americas and
other places lacking established global
stocks presented a challenge in terms of
effective coverage. UNHCR coordinated
through the new regional bureaux to
explore how new stocks and fleet hubs
could be established.
Road safety remained an area of concern.
UNHCR worked to reduce the incident rate,
both directly and through the Inter-Agency
Steering Committee implementing the
UN Road Safety Strategy.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 193

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TO SEXUAL
AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE
© UNHCR/John Wessel

An internally displaced Congolese woman talks to UNHCR in Tshikapa, in the DRC. “While fleeing, I travelled for four days and nights. The militia killed two people
in my group, and me and the other women were raped by one man after another.”

In 2019, UNHCR expanded its SGBV
prevention, risk mitigation and response
work, including at the outset of
emergencies. This was largely thanks to
the Safe from the Start initiative, a joint
United States of America-UNHCR
partnership launched in 2014 that was
designed to prevent and respond to SGBV
among people of concern, promote multisectoral risk mitigation strategies, and
ensure SGBV prevention and response
programmes were mainstreamed at the
onset of an emergency as a lifesaving
intervention.
Under Safe from the Start, UNHCR
deployed senior SGBV staff to Brazil,
Cameroon, Chad, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Nigeria, Mozambique, Sudan, Uganda,
Yemen and Zambia, six of which–Cameroon,
Ethiopia, Nigeria, Sudan, Uganda and
Yemen—had large IDP populations.
An evaluative review, using UNHCR
data, found these experts helped more
than double the coverage (25% to 59%)
and efficiency (35% to 82%) of SGBV
programming.

2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

45,557

3,308

6,745

reported SGBV incidents
for which survivors received
psychosocial counselling

reported SGBV incidents
for which survivors
received legal assistance

reported SGBV incidents
for which survivors
received medical assistance

compared to 47,857 in 2018

compared to 4,699 in 2018

compared to 9,613 in 2018

34

50

displacement situations
in which UNHCR sought
to improve community
involvement in the prevention of
SGBV and the protection of survivors

displacement situations
in which known SGBV
survivors received
appropriate support
compared to 44 in 2018

compared to 35 in 2018

Sexual and gender-based violence (SGBV),
predominantly perpetrated against women
and girls, remained a serious human rights

194 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

violation and public health problem.
It affects all people of concern to UNHCR
in all locations and situations.

To ensure quality case management
systems, referral pathways and SGBV
services were in place, UNHCR worked
with national and local partners. In Lebanon,
for instance, national standards for case
management were raised when 438 case
workers, supervisors and government
staff completed a peer-to-peer coaching
programme. In 2019, 2,885 UNHCR staff
also completed an SGBV e-learning course.
Emergency deployments to refugee and
IDP operations meant 1.2 million additional
people of concern had benefited from
expanded SGBV-relevant medical referral
systems since 2014.
UNHCR worked to prevent SGBV and
encourage refugee and IDP women’s
participation in decision-making processes,

focusing on combatting unequal gender
norms that legitimize violence against
women and girls. For example,
in Nigeria, UNHCR and partners
reached around 45,000 IDPs through
the Zero Tolerance Village Alliance
model, which propelled community action
against SGBV through community groups,
peer-to-peer support and campaigns.
They implemented SASA!, a community-led
SGBV prevention programme addressing
root causes by engaging men and boys,
as well as religious, community and
traditional leaders in Bangladesh, Ethiopia,
Iraq, Kenya, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia,
Pakistan, Rwanda, Sri Lanka, Turkey,
Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania
and Yemen. Assessments found a positive
effect on attitudes towards power dynamics
in relationships and gender norms.
UNHCR improved community involvement
in SGBV prevention and protection of
survivors in 24 refugee situations, as well
as seven involving IDPs and three involving
returnees. Working with communities,
the Office implemented prevention
programmes and awareness-raising
initiatives addressing the root causes of
gender-based violence, which brought
changes in behavior and social norms.
Furthermore, UNHCR supported SGBV
survivors in 50 situations, involving
refugees (43), IDPs (six) and returnees
(one). More than 55,600 SGBV survivors
had better access to medical, psychological,
social and legal services, and the Office
promoted inclusive services for all
survivors, including women, girls, men,
boys and other at-risk groups.

Guidelines for
Integrating
Gender-Based
Violence
Interventions in
Humanitarian
Action

UNHCR’s multi-sectoral approaches to
SGBV risk mitigation were strengthened in
Asia and the Pacific, the Middle East and
North Africa, and East Africa by implementing
the IASC Guidelines for integrating

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 195

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Photo by : Peter Biro/IRC

WHERE IS
THE MONEY?

HOW THE HUMANITARIAN
SYSTEM IS FAILING IN ITS
COMMITMENTS TO END
VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN AND GIRLS

gender-based violence interventions
in humanitarian action, which outline
responsibilities for addressing SGBV and
the practical steps humanitarian sectors
should take to reduce risk in their relevant
area. By the close of 2019, 414 UNHCR
staff in 12 national and four regional
cohorts had boosted their knowledge of
risk mitigation by completing UNHCR’s
learning programmes. The Office also
produced national action plans on SGBV
risk mitigation. In Bangladesh, for example,
UNHCR installed 2,500 streetlights,
distributed 86,706 shelter locks, and
issued 107,000 refugee households and
10,700 host community families with liquid
petroleum gas canisters, thereby reducing
the risks associated with firewood collection,
a task that often falls to women and girls.
A UNHCR policy on the prevention, risk
mitigation and response to gender-based
violence (GBV), developed in 2019 and due
for release in 2020, draws extensively on
UNHCR’s GBV work and will institutionalize
and consolidate progress made by UNHCR
and its partners.

A recent study by the IRC and Voice found
that SGBV funding accounted for just 0.12%
of all humanitarian funding, representing
one third of what was requested. Available
funding did not meet needs or reach
necessary targets or protection outcomes.
The study found lifesaving services, such
as clinical care for SGBV survivors and
female-only safe spaces, continued to be
significantly underfunded and deprioritized
in humanitarian responses. This means the
needs of millions of women and girls
caught in crisis are not being met.
Early and effective SGBV programming
saves lives and money. Having dedicated
staff with SGBV expertise, particularly from
the onset of emergencies, improves
survivors’ access to services and reduces
SGBV risks. However, resource constraints
meant that dedicated staff remain limited
across UNHCR, which in turn restricted the
systematic prioritization of lifesaving SGBV
services and programming.

Virginie Laure, a woman in Cameroon, was
attacked and raped by a group of strangers. Now seeking
asylum in Greece, she is raising her voice to help others.
The Greek charity Diotima works with UNHCR to help
survivors like Virginie learn about their rights and
access medical and legal services. But with victims often
reluctant to come forward, the biggest hurdle to that work
can be identifying them in the first place.
“There is a huge stigma around sexual violence generally,
but especially about rape. But survivors are now coming forward. Somehow, they overcome it.”
—Adamantia Lambouka, a psychologist working with Diotima.

Aziza Ibish, a Syrian asylum-seeker living in Greece, shops in the municipal market. Thanks to UNHCR’s cash assistance programme, she has more choice in how
she covers her daily needs.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

© UNHCR/Achilleas Zavallis

Asylum-seeker in Greece
speaks out about the violence
that upended her life

196 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

CASH ASSISTANCE

Constraints and unmet needs

© UNHCR/Achilleas Zavallis

WHERE IS
THE MONEY?

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

$650

100

million in cash assistance was distributed

country operations implemented cash-based
interventions

compared to $568 million in 2018

compared to 93 in 2018

5,000

80%

UNHCR staff trained in cash assistance

of UNHCR’s cash assistance was disbursed
electronically

compared to 3,800 in 2018

compared to 65% in 2018

Cash assistance brings a measure of
dignity and predictability to people
of concern. In line with its Grand Bargain
commitment to double the use of cash as
a proportion of its assistance by 2020,
UNHCR has delivered some $2.4 billion
in cash assistance since 2016 in more than
100 countries. Cash assistance now

exceeds in-kind assistance. In 2019,
some $650 million was distributed—a
13% increase on 2018 expenditure and a
50% increase since 2015 ($325 million).
UNHCR used cash for a range of purposes,
including protection, basic needs, education,
shelter, health, livelihoods and winterization.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 197

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

UN agencies
Common Cash
Statement

© UNHCR/David Azia

CashAssist

CashAssist
UNHCR’s Cash Assistance
Management Systems

UNHCR's Refugee
Livelihoods
and Economic
Inclusion:
2019-2023 Global
strategy
Refugee Livelihoods
and Economic Inclusion
2019-2023 Global Strategy Concept Note

Engage in advocacy to enhance the enabling
environment such that refugees have legal
and de facto access to decent work (such as
through rights to work, own a business,
access financial services, land/property
ownership, and freedom of mobility).

Partner with and convene expert entities to
facilitate inclusion of refugees into existing
programmes/services.
© UNHCR/Christian Als

● Conduct consultations with different types of
stakeholders, such as:
o Financial and Business Development Service
Providers
o Private Sector (companies, chambers of commerce,
employment agencies, business associations)
o Training Institutes (public and private)
o Development Actors
o NGOs
o Governments
o UN Agencies
o Academia and Research Institutions
● Complete an institutional mapping exercise to see if
inclusion is viable, considering:
o Whether actors have relevant services for refugees;
o Capacity, incentives and influence of actors to
include all targeted refugees; and
o Expertise of entities and quality of market-based
interventions.

As a last choice, implement
interventions to fill a gap in service
only when:
● There is limited or no presence of expert
entities who can include refugees; or
● The engagement of other stakeholders is not
possible or still insufficient to meet the needs
of refugees.
In cases of implementation, operations are
recommended to apply the Minimum
Economic Recovery Standards, which were
initially a great contributor to the
development of the Minimum Criteria for
Livelihoods Programming.

Most of the cash (95%) was multi-purpose,
meaning it was disbursed without
restriction. This allowed refugees and
others of concern to choose how
to meet their own needs. Evaluations
demonstrated that cash prevented
displaced people from resorting to
negative coping strategies, such as child
labour, selling or exchanging sex, early
marriage or premature return to conflict
zones. It also enhanced gender equality
and women’s empowerment. UNHCR
research in Ecuador, Lebanon and
Morocco indicated that access to cash
could render women and girls less
vulnerable to sexual exploitation, too.
In Lebanon, female cash recipients
reported feeling stronger, more equal
and more independent, thanks to
the control cash gave them to meet
their most pressing needs.
Cash assistance required a shift in mind
set by UNHCR. Staff at all levels needed
access to e-learning and face-to-face
training, as well as guidance,
implementation modalities and lessons
learned. Since 2016, UNHCR has trained
some 5,000 of its own and partners’
staff on cash assistance. More than
1,000 people were trained in 2019 alone,
with a network of 100 cash experts
established across UNHCR's operations.
Pursuing collaborative cash delivery
mechanisms to ensure efficiencies in aid
remained a cornerstone of UNHCR’s cash
institutionalization strategy. A common
cash facility clause was implemented in
45 countries and the High Commissioner
endorsed the Common Cash Statement—
reaffirming UNHCR’s commitment to
provide cash through a common cash
system used in crises globally to avoid

198 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

parallel systems among operational
agencies or duplicate financial instruments,
based on the identification of “shared
business needs” across agencies. UNHCR
implemented the Common Cash
Statement in seven priority countries and
through global systems and guidance
development, along with OCHA, UNICEF
and WFP. The system is to be collectively
owned, jointly governed, have clear and
predictable roles, responsibilities and
arrangements, and be available to
multiple partners (including those outside
the United Nations). Implementation built
on existing good practices, such as
LOUISE in Lebanon, the Common Cash
Facility in Jordan and the Greece Cash
Alliance. Among other achievements,
UNHCR, UNICEF and WFP launched the
Guidance for Collaborative Procurement
for Humanitarian Cash Transfers and
developed a minimum core data set
for vulnerable populations.
To ensure accountability to populations
affected by displacement, UNHCR
developed CashAssist, a cash
management system that ensured cash
transfers were made to refugees, IDPs
and others of concern in a timely, efficient
and accurate manner while avoiding
duplication and minimizing fraud. By the
end of 2019, CashAssist had been rolled
out in 10 operations, with the roll out
to another 50 planned in the coming
two years.
UNHCR quadrupled its use of cash
assistance for livelihoods programming
too, increasing from 18 to 54 countries.
Cash was an integral element of UNHCR’s
forthcoming “Refugee livelihoods and
economic inclusion: 2019-2023
Global strategy”.

Constraints and unmet needs

The Office increasingly leveraged its cash
assistance to promote financial inclusion
and facilitated refugees’ access to formal
bank and mobile money accounts in
countries such as Cameroon, the DRC,
Ethiopia, Iraq, Niger, Jordan, Kenya,
Rwanda, Uganda and Zambia.

While cash was an efficient form of aid
that gave beneficiaries the power to
prioritize their own spending, UNHCR
analysis in nine countries revealed
just 4% of interviewees could meet
their basic needs with the cash assistance
they received. Nearly half (47%) said
the assistance met just half of their
basic needs. As a result, many engaged
in negative coping mechanisms, such
as pulling children out of school,
begging, onward movement or child
labour. While it remained an efficient
way to provide assistance, there was
not enough cash available for it to
meet people’s basic needs in a
long-term and sustainable way.

Most of UNHCR’s cash assistance (80%)
was electronically disbursed, meaning
vulnerable populations could access funds
via their mobile phone or bank accounts.
In addition, in line with the objectives
of the Global Compact on Refugees
and building on the World Bank’s IDA18
regional sub-window for refugees and
host communities initiative, UNHCR
leveraged its cash assistance to
align with national social protection
systems. Most recently, for instance,
the Governments of Cameroon and
Chad allowed refugees to access their
national social safety nets.

Targeted assistance was crucial to ensuring
the most vulnerable families were reached.
UNHCR is therefore working with partners
on common targeting approaches and
developed joint guidance with WFP.

CASH ASSISTANCE BY SECTOR | 2015 -2019

CASH ASSISTANCE | 2015 -2019
USD millions

2019

61

8

24

8

800
682

700
2018

58

9

24

9

568

600
2017

66

7

17

11

2016

68

2015

69

29

3

496

500
400

650

358

300
200

0%

20%

Basic needs

40%
Seasonal grants

17

60%

80%

Lifesaving support

14

100%
Solutions

100
0
2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 199

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

PUBLIC HEALTH
© UNHCR/Samuel Otieno

Manirakiza, a 25-year-old refugee from Burundi, and her baby, Irakoze, at Kalobeyei health clinic in north-west Kenya.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

0.3

0.12

93.5%

under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 people a month)

crude mortality rate
(per 1,000 people a month)

of births were attended
by skilled personnel

compared to 0.3 in 2018

compared to 0.13 in 2018

compared to 94.4% in 2018

UNHCR remained committed to refugees,
IDPs and host communities accessing
health services. In 2019, it supported
access to primary health care, including
sexual and reproductive health and nutrition
services in 46 countries. It delivered HIV
prevention and treatment, as well as
reproductive health programmes within
a framework of public health, protection
and community development.

systems. In 2019, it supported countries
in making that happen. For instance,
the Islamic Republic of Iran continued
to provide access to 92,000 refugees
through its national health insurance
scheme, while seeking to increase the
number of most vulnerable enrolled.
Rwanda also made significant progress,
enrolling 12,000 refugees in its national
health insurance scheme.

UNHCR’s aim was for people of concern to
be included in national health policies and

To advance access to quality health care
and related data, UNHCR rolled out

200 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

iRHIS—its new integrated refugee health
information system—in 18 countries hosting
refugees in camps, including the DRC,
Ethiopia, Iraq and Yemen. More than
7.3 million registered consultations took
place across 179 sites. UNHCR and partners
conducted quality of care assessments in
71 sites or camps and 148 health facilities
in Bangladesh, Chad, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Jordan, Kenya, Malawi, Rwanda, Somalia,
South Sudan, Sudan and Uganda using the
balanced scorecard. The scorecard was
designed to assess care quality in primary
health care facilities. The average country
scores ranged between 70% and 89%, well
above the moderate range of 60%. Results
were available immediately, allowing
decisions to be made on capacity and
other gaps at health facilities.
UNHCR continued its mental health
and psychosocial support (MHPSS) to
people of concern, including by training
26 Bangladeshi psychologists working
with Rohingya refugees on interpersonal
therapy for depression. The integration
of mental health into primary health
care continued in Burundi and Zambia,
where 49 primary care staff in refugee
settings were trained as part of the
Mental Health Gap Action Programme.
In the last five years, 1,133 partner staff in
14 countries completed the training,
significantly improving access to mental
health services for refugees and host
populations. In addition, UNHCR remained
an active member of the IASC MHPSS
Reference Group and supported MHPSS
efforts for IDPs through its Protection Cluster.
A UNHCR initiative to improve
non-communicable diseases care for
people of concern saw approximately
300 health staff from 12 countries receive
training and support introducing treatment

protocols. These included participants
from UNHCR, NGOs and government
partners in countries such as Burundi,
Cameroon and Ethiopia. UNHCR worked
with the Centres for Disease Control and
Prevention and national tuberculosis
programmes to assess the challenges
facing urban refugees and asylum-seekers
needing health care in Cameroon and
South Africa.

iRHIS, UNHCR's
integrated refugee
health information
system

Despite systems being inadequately
equipped to meet their needs, and
discrimination from some health care
workers, most refugees could access HIV
tests. Refugees were also confident they
could get tuberculosis treatment in the
health care system and stay in the country
after a tuberculosis or HIV diagnosis.
UNHCR developed a comprehensive
approach to improving access to national
systems for people of concern, which
included greater partnership and
coordination with national authorities and
partners, translation services in health care
facilities, translating information material
into refugees’ languages, sensitizing health
care workers to refugees’ needs and
ensuring refugees’ contact information
was updated at each appointment.
In 2019, two-thirds of preventable maternal
deaths and nearly half (45%) of newborn
deaths occurred in countries affected
by recent conflict, natural disaster or
both. The majority (94%) of live births
occurred with the assistance of skilled
health personnel. The under-five
mortality rate improved slightly, with
one in 3,000 children under five dying.
In 2019, a UNHCR project in
refugee-hosting regions of Cameroon,
Chad and Niger, saw 29 health centres
and district hospitals receive training,

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 201

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Constraints and unmet needs
Although UNHCR focused on expanding
service delivery for refugees through
existing national systems and strengthening
access for refugees and host populations,
including refugees in national health care
systems will take years.
In the meantime, during emergencies,
UNHCR must mobilize timely and quality
public health support for people of concern.
When national services are available, they
often require considerable support,

Humanitarian-specific responses, such
as vaccinations, screening for acute
malnutrition and prioritized interventions
are still needed to minimize avoidable
morbidity and mortality.
Gaps remained in 2019 in services such
as palliative care; high-impact elective
surgeries, such as for blindness-preventing
cataract surgery; treatment for hepatitis B
and C through national programmes;
adolescent, maternal and newborn care;
and integrated mental health services.

Malaria, HIV and AIDS, and tuberculosis (TB) present unique
risks to refugees and IDPs. High levels of mobility, poor
living conditions, exposure to violence and less access to
health services are all contributing factors. The Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria remained a vital support to
ensure refugees and IDPs could access quality disease
prevention, treatment and care services.
UNHCR and the United Nations Foundation (UNF) reviewed
how refugees and IDPs were included in Global Fund
applications between 2002-2019. The global results and
downloadable scorecards for each eligible country were
discussed with the Global Fund, to be shared with UNF
partners. As part of the review and annual public health report, the team also analyzed how
refugees benefit from country grants. The scorecards will help encourage national programmes to
include refugees, IDPs and surrounding populations in proposals for the next three-year funding cycle
(2021-2023).

© UNHCR/Hugh Kinsella Cunningham

Working towards refugees' and IDPs' access to
quality disease prevention and care services

202 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

NUTRITION AND FOOD SECURITY

including medicines and medical supplies,
equipment, training and human resources.
Furthermore, refugees’ impact on national
delivery systems should be assessed early
on and monitored as the situation unfolds.

© UNHCR/Martim Gray Pereira

equipment, supplies, monitoring and
community outreach to improve the
quality and uptake of maternal, newborn
and family planning services.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Two refugees working with the standardized expanded nutrition survey team in Pamir camp, South Sudan, take a blood sample from a four-year-old Sudanese
refugee to screen for anemia.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

61%

6%

of surveyed sites in which levels of acute
malnutrition were acceptable (<10%)

of surveyed sites in which anemia levels
were acceptable (<20%)

compared to 2018 levels: 48%

compared to 2018 levels: 5%

23%

74%

of surveyed sites in which levels of stunting
were acceptable (<20%)

of surveyed sites met the UNHCR
target (≥70%) for the rate of exclusive
breastfeeding

compared to 2018 levels: 32%

compared to 2018 levels: 61%

While malnutrition causes vary, food insecurity
is a significant contributing factor among
refugee and IDP populations, particularly for
children. Malnutrition is a major challenge
to protection and threatens development
gains. UNHCR focuses on tackling it in all its
forms, stressing the need for a multi-sectoral
approach to nutrition and food security.

The collection and use of good quality data
is pivotal to decision-making and targeted
responses. The Standardized Expanded
Nutrition Survey, known as SENS, was
updated in 2019. It aligns with international
standards; with Sustainable Development
Goal (SDG) 2 (end hunger, achieve food
security and improved nutrition and

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 203

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

UNHCR's SENS
dashboard

UNHCR ensured robust methodologies for
all nutrition surveys undertaken in 77 sites
across 13 countries, 91% of which were in
Africa, predominantly in East and Central
Africa, to ensure the accuracy of data
generated. It sought to prioritize the effects
of rising malnutrition when funding and
designing programmes for country
operations. To make the data more
accessible to other sectors and partners,
the UNHCR SENS dashboard was
developed, providing a comprehensive
overview of all data and allowing analyses
of nutrition and food security trends.
The information from nutrition surveys
conducted in 13 countries during 2019
highlights the extremely precarious nutrition
situation of refugee populations, notably in
Ethiopia, Nigeria and Sudan. All forms of
childhood malnutrition are at concerning
levels. High stunting—indicative of
longer-term nutritional deficits—was present
in almost 50% of sites; high anemia in almost
70% of sites; and global acute malnutrition
(GAM) standards exceeded the 10%
threshold in 39% of the sites monitored.

With malnutrition representing a significant
concern for refugee populations, improving
the prevention of undernutrition and
micronutrient deficiencies, and managing
existing malnutrition cases, was a priority
and challenge in 2019. In addition to
treatment, UNHCR focused on preventing
malnutrition in collaboration with other
sectors. Poor infant and young child
feeding (IYCF) is a major driver of
malnutrition and, while exclusive
breastfeeding levels among UNHCR
operations are improving, complementary
feeding indicators remain poor. The
IYCF framework, which outlines the
practical steps each sector can take to
mitigate malnutrition, was rolled out at
new sites in seven operations, including
in Uganda and the United Republic of
Tanzania, with further roll out planned
for 2020.

The IYCF framework has been implemented for the first
time in an emergency context, resulting in a substantial
reduction in child mortality in Gambella camp, while
global acute malnutrition was nearly halved in Gambella
and Melkadida camps.
In October 2019, the international conference “Building innovative partnerships: tackling child malnutrition
and achieving sustainable developments goals” was organized in Barcelona, involving experts and
stakeholders from the public and private sectors, providing innovative ideas for sustainable solutions.

In Bangladesh, following the influx of almost 1 million
refugees in 2017 to the Cox’s Bazar district, levels of
GAM in the Kutupalong refugee camp were well above
the emergency levels (≥15%) at 24.3%, with stunting and
anemia also exhibiting extremely high prevalence.

This improved enrolment and use of nutrition services.
While in 2018 only 27% of eligible children were enrolled in treatment programmes for severe acute malnutrition,
this figure increased to 78% in 2019. Promotion of appropriate IYCF was also scaled up, with pregnant and
lactating women receiving counselling while mother-to-mother support groups were established in communities
to enhance the adoption of IYCF and health practices in the first 1,000 days of life.

Constraints and unmet needs
Refugee food security continued to
deteriorate in many protracted situations
where UNHCR operates, particularly in
Africa. This was most concerning in
contexts where drought was coupled
with limited livelihood opportunities.

© UNHCR/Eduardo Soteras Jalil

“la Caixa” Banking Foundation supports
innovation for tackling the issue of child
malnutrition in Ethiopia through the MOM Project.

Nutrition services scale up in Bangladesh

In response, local and international actors ramped up
efforts to reduce the overcrowded conditions by massively
scaling up the extension areas. Efforts were also multiplied
to ensure refugees had access to regular food distributions
and to expand community management of acute
malnutrition practices.

Lastly, UNHCR conducted a comprehensive
five-day nutrition and food security
training session in Nairobi for public
health and nutrition staff with 28 staff from
10 operations. Specialists from the region,
including from other agencies, shared
their expertise, which promoted synergies
between various sectors and agencies.
This training was the first to be held by
UNHCR since 2011.

Taking steps to fight child malnutrition
in refugee camps

204 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

© UNHCR/David Azia

promote sustainable agriculture) and the
nutrition targets of SDG 2.2, which aims to
end all forms of malnutrition by 2030; and
with indicators and methodologies from
agencies such as UNICEF and WFP.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Refugee food security is largely dependent
on humanitarian food assistance provided
by WFP. Funding shortfalls resulted in basic
needs not being met in Cameroon, Chad,
Ethiopia, Malawi, Kenya and South Sudan,
among others. To deal with these challenges,
refugees often put themselves at great
risk leaving camps to search for income
or livelihoods. Some migrated to mining
areas. Women often took their children
to the fields for weeks at a time, resulting
in a break in access to health centres
providing malnutrition prevention and
treatment services and school.
The nutritional impact of food insecurity
contributed to detrimental effects on the
growth and development of refugee
children at the most critical window of
opportunity between conception and

two years of age. Stunting levels increasing
in 2019 could be a physical manifestation
of this.
UNHCR and WFP collaborated to address
resource challenges by shifting from
providing assistance to all, to targeting
those most in need, increasing biometric
verification in food assistance distribution,
and jointly fundraising for additional
support.

% OF SURVEYED SITES MEETING
THE NUTRITION INDICATOR TARGETS
2013 -2019
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0
2013

2014

2015

GAM <10%
Stunting scenario <20%

2016

2017

2018

2019

Anemia <20%
Exclusive breastfeeding >70%

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 205

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

© UNHCR/Sebastian Rich

disparities across UNHCR operations.
In some countries, such as Iraq, refugees
and IDPs had their own household toilet,
while in other operations such as Kepembele
camp in the Republic of the Congo, as many
as 110 people shared one toilet.
Monitoring is key to addressing inequalities,
enhancing UNHCR’s accountability to
affected populations, and mitigating
financial and reputational risks to UNHCR.
Smart monitoring technology was piloted
in Iraq, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda, and the
United Republic of Tanzania, allowing
UNHCR and partners to ensure service
standards were maintained by tracking
water trucking operations, the performance
of water distribution networks, water levels
in boreholes, and water quality.
UNHCR also invested in cost-effective and
environmentally-sustainable technologies,
such as urine-diverting dry toilets that

WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SERVICES
2014 -2019
Number of people

WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE

40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2014

2015

2016

Persons per drop-hole

2017

2018

2019

liters per person per day

require little maintenance in hot and dry
climates. Rapid groundwater assessments
were rolled out in Sudan (White Nile),
Uganda (Adjumani, Bidibidi, and Kyangwali),
and Zimbabwe (Tongogara) to increase
the probability of finding water when
drilling boreholes and the yield of finalized
wells, and substantially reduce the costs
for sustainable water supply systems.

Somali refugees collect water from a waterpoint in Hagadera camp, Dadaab, Kenya. UNHCR provides water to more than 200,000 refugees there and 19 of these
boreholes operate on a solar photovoltaic-diesel hybrid system.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

17

21
liters of potable water on average available
per person per day in 24 refugee situations

21L

average number of people of concern
per drop-hole

compared to 20 liters in 26 refugee situations in 2018

compared to 22 in 2018

1,755

30

average number of people of concern
per hygiene promoter

average number of people of concern
per shower/bathing facility

compared to 1,200 in 2018

compared to 31 in 2018

UNHCR's WASH
dashboard

In 2019, approximately 8.1 million people
accessed water and sanitation services
thanks to UNHCR support. Effective
monitoring helped UNHCR address
inequalities, enhance its accountability to
affected populations, and mitigate financial
and reputational risks.

206 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

In September 2019, the Office launched the
WASH dashboard, providing access to live
WASH data from 144 refugee camps and
settlements in 29 countries on 4.3 million
refugees. It also installed smart meters,
allowing it to study the WASH situation in
any camp. The meters helped reveal

Working together to help refugee
children stay healthy
UNHCR partnered in 2019 with Lifebuoy,
a soap brand owned by the multinational
company Unilever, to improve hygiene conditions for
Syrian refugees in Lebanon, with the aim of reaching
10,000 refugee mothers through Lifebuoy’s “Mum’s
Magic Hands” handwashing behaviour change programme.
Through a combination of financial investments in water
and sanitation programmes, a donation of
50,000 bars of soap, and working together to
co-create new Mum’s Magic Hands materials,
the project ensured refugee mothers and
children had the information and resources
they needed to stay healthy.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 207

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

In addition, 10 people were selected for
an in-depth field training on applied
hydrogeology and solar water pumping
in order to build capacity for planning
and constructing sustainable water
supply systems.

Constraints and unmet needs

SHELTER AND SETTLEMENTS
© UNHCR/Will Swanson

In addition, 50 UNHCR WASH staff learned
how to operationalize the Global Compact
on Refugees at training sessions,
particularly how to ensure WASH services
are sustainable for refugees and host
communities. Specific tools in the training
included: the global solar water initiative;
tools to reduce the maintenance costs
of water supply; real-time monitoring of
WASH systems to improve effectiveness;
and a suite of tools on applied
hydrogeology and rapid groundwater
potential mapping to improve the overall
lifespan of WASH infrastructure.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Gaps in UNHCR’s technical expertise
remained. Only one region had WASH
technical staff in 2019 and there were
17 operations with WASH expenditure
but no technical WASH staff. In addition,
and most importantly, the budget did
not meet emergency needs, let alone
ensure longer-term service sustainability.
In 2019, only 28% of the requested funding
for WASH was allocated. UNHCR often
operates in remote areas without pre-existing
infrastructure. Establishing sustainable
water and sanitation systems remained
costly and takes significant time.
Sustainable infrastructure requires a larger
cash injection from the outset; therefore,
the Office faces the dilemma of targeting
more people with emergency facilities or
fewer with sustainable facilities.

Nor Kalam, 25, helps to prepare bamboo logs for chemical treatment at Kutupalong camp, Bangladesh. Bamboo treatment brings more sustainable housing to camps.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

Full solarization of water supply systems
in refugee camps
In 2019, solarization took place for three boreholes in
Zambia, two water supply systems in Chad, one water
supply system in Sudan, while full solarization was achieved
for the water supply systems in northern Iraq’s refugee camps.
Nonetheless, there were still more systems that run on fossil
fuel than on solar power. To intensify UNHCR’s efforts to
become carbon neutral, solarizing camp and settlement
water supply systems was identified as a key component
of the UNHCR Clean Energy Challenge, announced at the
Global Refugee Forum in 2019. An overview of
solarized boreholes and those running on
alternative power can be found on the UNHCR
borehole database.

219,000

27,880

86,426

people of concern
lived in refugee housing units

transitional shelters were
provided to people
of concern

households received
cash grants for rental
accommodation

compared to 143,101 in 2018

compared to 16,457 in 2018

compared to 93,942 in 2018

9,516

94,488

long-term/permanent
shelters provided to
people of concern

emergency shelters
provided to people
of concern

compared to 11,849 in 2018

compared to 161,603 in 2018

Adequate shelter and settlements provide
refugees and IDPs with the space they
need to live safely and as part of a wider
community. The Office improved the
quality and type of shelter options,
providing emergency shelter to more
than 116,527 people of concern, while

208 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

139,400 people of concern benefited from
transitional shelter. However, mounting
displacement meant at least half of
emergency shelter needs went unmet.
To improve the living conditions of
76,000 refugees and IDPs, 15,198 refugee
housing units (RHUs) were deployed to

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 209

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Cash for shelter
programme

15 operations. The majority (70%) went to
operations in Africa, and the remainder to
the Americas, Asia and the Pacific, and the
Middle East and North of Africa. Globally,
219,000 people of concern were living in
RHUs by the end of 2019 and, reflecting
UNHCR’s commitment to engage decisively
and predictably in situations of internal
displacement, 90,200 IDPs were living in a
RHU by year's end, with a third of RHUs set
aside for IDPs. With Better Shelter, UNHCR
trained 450 additional staff, partners and
people of concern in RHU assembly and
safety standards across 15 operations.
Throughout the year, UNHCR pursued
comprehensive responses, which
promoted progressive shelter solutions.
The aim was a more permanent solution
for people of concern, including IDPs in
Burkina Faso, the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (DRC), Iraq and the Syrian Arab
Republic. People of concern received a
holistic package of assistance that
supported them to transition from
emergency to more durable shelter and
settlement solutions.

UNHCR humanitarian settlements should
promote local development and the
inclusion of people of concern, so
settlement profiling tools were developed
with UN-Habitat. These allowed UNHCR
to rapidly obtain information that could

210 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

inform decision-making and sustainable
investments in settlements housing people
of concern. Settlement profiles were also
developed for Ethiopia (Kebri Beyah) and
Uganda (Nakivale).

files to shelter strategies, drawing templates,
guidelines, construction guidance, site
planning reference, settlement maps and
RHU guidelines. The SIP dashboard is a
comprehensive community of practice,
which also allows a more in-depth
technical monitoring of sectoral activities
in 690 settlements, covering both IDP
and refugee contexts.

At the onset of emergencies, UNHCR
deployed experts and increased its use
of new technology and cash to improve
shelter response, with cash assistance
as an effective way to ensure people of
concern had shelter. UNHCR scaled up
cash assistance for immediate shelter
needs, with 17 operations implementing
cash for shelter programmes, including
for IDPs in Burkina Faso, the DRC, Iraq,
Somalia and Ukraine. Globally, households
could buy shelter construction materials
using cash grants (27,387) or vouchers (722);
buy shelter-related core relief items using
cash grants (7,524); or use cash grants
to rent accommodation (86,426).
The technical capacity of staff, partners
and people of concern was strengthened
through comprehensive training sessions
organized for 20 national shelter and
settlement planners from 17 countries.
UNHCR also facilitated peer-to-peer
learning and opportunities to share lessons
learned, and outlined ways to implement
the “Master Plan” approach to settlement
planning.
Aligned with institutional priorities for
better data when implementing technical
programmes, the settlement information
portal (SIP) continued to grow and connect
with other UNHCR information databases,
including the cash assistance dashboards,
the WASH portal, the health facility
balanced scorecard, HALEP and
emergency deployments dashboards,
as well as the UNHCR operational
portal. The SIP now contains more than
4,000 documents, ranging from AutoCAD

Constraints and unmet needs
Insufficient funding, mounting or prolonged
displacement, the growing impact of
climate variability, difficult access to
affected populations, limited technical
capacity and challenging political
environments, all remained significant
barriers to UNHCR meeting the shelter
needs of people of concern.
In Burundi, for example, UNHCR supported
refugees and asylum-seekers living in

© UNHCR/Caroline Gluck

To improve emergency preparedness and
response, UNHCR developed revised
shelter strategy templates and checklists
to facilitate a prompt and efficient response.
For example, in Bangladesh, the response
evolved from a transitional shelter-only
approach to a multi-faceted one, also
incorporating emergency upgrades and
hazard preparedness, reflecting the dynamic
nature of the conditions in Bangladesh
where multiple shelter options are required.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

camps, including through sensitization
activities and by providing shelter kits and
materials. However, increased numbers
of refugees arriving from the DRC saw
funding diverted from the much-needed
rehabilitation of existing shelters and
infrastructure towards the construction of
neighborhoods to accommodate new arrivals.
As a result, only 6,595 people of concern
received shelter support instead of the
10,000 intended, and only 1,530 shelter
kits were distributed instead of the
2,000 that were originally planned.
In Myanmar, UNHCR and partners continued
to prioritize reconstructing temporary
shelters in camps hosting Rohingya.
However, limited funding for shelter and
the rapid degradation of temporary shelters
(built to last two years) caused by local
weather conditions meant that only 380
of the 800 communal shelters targeted
for reconstruction could be rebuilt.

Rohingya refugee volunteers work to
avert monsoon damage in Bangladesh
Volunteers were at the forefront of a drive to
protect residents of the sprawling refugee
settlements as the cyclone and monsoon season
approached.
While humanitarian agencies strengthened essential
infrastructure and pre-positioned relief items in the
settlements, the shift in emergency planning is towards
a community-centred approach.
Volunteer community outreach members went house-tohouse, spreading information and awareness about how
families can better protect themselves and their shelters.
At the same time, UNHCR focused on improving
the fragile and densely-crowded refugee
settlements, building kilometre after kilometre of roads, steps and bridges. Drainage, water and
sanitation systems and upgraded shelters were installed and built, tie-down kits and plastic tarpaulins
distributed to families, and emergency items pre-positioned.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 211

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Building
Better
Futures

The affirmation of the Global Compact on
Refugees in December 2018, and the first
Global Refugee Forum, which took place a
year later, created momentum for enhanced
and innovative approaches to achieving
solutions and resilience for refugees,
returnees, the internally displaced and
stateless persons.
The Forum saw significant pledges,
some cross-cutting, made in the areas
of education; energy; settlements; water,
sanitation and hygiene; health and
infrastructure; jobs and livelihoods; and
solutions, including local integration and
reintegration. Providing employment
opportunities for refugees—crucial for
allowing them to live in dignity and give back
to the communities they reside in—
also saw strong support. In addition to
humanitarian and development pledges at
the Forum, significant funding was pledged
by business groups. At least 15,000 jobs will
be made available to refugees through these
initiatives, along with some 125,000 hours
per year of pro bono legal counselling.
The Compact also called for the
establishment of a global academic
network on refugees, as well as other
forced displacement and statelessness
issues, to facilitate research, training
and scholarship opportunities involving
universities, academic alliances and
research institutions. This network,
the Global Academic Interdisciplinary
Network, was launched at the Forum.
It builds on the many academic networks
that individual UNHCR teams currently
work with, both regional and thematic. 
As it begins its work in 2020, it will
focus on creating links between
academics, policymakers and practitioners
(see the Global Compact Overview). 

Um Nour, a Syrian returnee, was able to open a
repair shop in Aleppo thanks to the grant she
received from UNHCR’s livelihoods programme.
© UNHCR/Antwan

212 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Chnkdji

In 2019, there were further advances in
implementing the Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF) by
15 vanguard countries, as well as a more
global uptake of the Compact’s principles
in support of refugee-hosting countries and
countries of origin.

During the year, more States reviewed their
policies towards refugees and strengthened
efforts to support self-reliance through
socioeconomic inclusion, including by
extending national services to refugees
such as education systems and birth
registration. In doing this, many developed
multi-stakeholder approaches, drawing
on the expertise and contributions of line
ministries and other stakeholders, including
the private sector. These efforts were
supported by further investment from
the development donor community, with
increased financing and commitments to
work more closely with humanitarian donors
to achieve more harmonized and sustained
support in nexus situations. For example,
UNHCR-World Bank Group cooperation has
supported policy changes to include
refugees in national service delivery
systems and ensure their economic
inclusion, such as through improved
access to labour markets.
Furthermore, the affirmation of the Compact
and the variety of pledges made at the
Forum have been accompanied by renewed
enthusiasm among many States for
resettlement and complementary pathways
for refugees. These States recognize them
as tangible, lifesaving mechanisms by which
governments and communities across
the world share responsibility for finding
solutions for the increasing number of
refugees worldwide. However, although
expanding third-country solutions is a key
objective of the Compact, in 2019 those
solutions were still only available to a
fraction of the world’s refugees.
In this chapter
•	 Delivering through partnerships
•	 Voluntary return and local integration
and solutions
•	Resettlement and complementary
pathways
•	 Access to quality education
•	 Livelihoods and economic inclusion
•	 Strengthening city networks and
supporting the urban displaced
•	 Energy and environmental protection
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 213

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Delivering through partnerships
© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

The World Bank and UNHCR also completed comparable (nationals and refugees) socioeconomic data studies
in Chad, Niger and Uganda and finalized a socioeconomic study comparing the Shona, a stateless population
in Kenya, with citizens. The analysis from this data informs programming and policy, and it provides evidence
with which to work in a more informed way with host governments, development and other partners.
Partnerships were also strengthened with bilateral development actors, such as the German Federal Ministry
of Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), the European Commission’s Directorate-General for
International Cooperation and Development (DEVCO) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA).
With BMZ’s support, an urbanization project supporting out-of-camp solutions in the Tillabery region of
Niger began, with planned construction of social housing and services for 40,000 Malian refugees and host
community members. JICA has also supported basic services, including water and health, in Cox’s Bazar.
Partnerships and support from Denmark, Luxembourg and the Netherlands, have built significant
opportunities for UNHCR to grow its knowledge and practical experience in the humanitarian-development
nexus.
Under the framework of the joint action plan, UNHCR and UNDP developed a Sustainable Development Goals
(SDG) tool on displacement and an internal displacement guide. They further collaborated on the regional
refugee responses for the Congolese, Nigeria, Rohingya and Syria crises; rule of law and governance efforts in
more than 20 countries; and livelihoods programming in Ethiopia, Somalia, Turkey and Uganda, among others.
A UNHCR and ILO joint action plan saw collaboration to advocate refugees’ inclusion in national social
protection health systems in eight African countries. They also called for the monitoring and follow-up of child
labour cases in the Syrian Arab Republic among displaced and host populations.
The agencies further collaborated to support the Intergovernmental Authority on Development regarding the
adoption of the “Kampala declaration on jobs, livelihoods and self-reliance for refugees, returnees and host
communities”; and collaborated on the Venezuela situation through the Regional Inter-Agency
Coordination Platform for refugees and migrants. In addition, supporting efforts to translate
international standards into national policies, ILO and UNHCR developed “Decent work for refugees”
guidelines, and training sessions on market-based livelihoods and access to decent work.

Shifat Ullah, 23, holds up his chequebook at his fabrics shop in Karachi, Pakistan. Afghan refugees like Shifat have recently been allowed
to open bank accounts in Pakistan.

Key partnerships and engagement with development actors

A stronger engagement in forced displacement issues by multilateral development banks—through targeted
financing instruments and policy dialogue—was exemplified by the commitments to the Compact made
by the African Development Bank, Asian Development Bank, European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, European Investment Bank, Inter-American Development Bank, Islamic Development Bank
and the World Bank Group at the Forum in December 2019.
By the end of 2019, approximately 20 projects receiving financing from the IDA18 sub-window for host
communities and refugees (RSW) were approved by the World Bank in support of 13 low-income countries
hosting major refugee populations.
Examples include an integrated water management and development project in the north-east of Uganda
designed to gradually replace water trucking to refugee hosting sites with sustainable water supply systems,
as well as an RSW-supported project in Niger, providing community infrastructure and better access to basic
services and economic opportunities.
Other elements of the partnership continue to flourish, including joint learning and capacity-building
initiatives that are increasing technical collaboration in specific sectors, such as employment, social protection,
education, and data collection and analysis. The latter was exemplified by the launch in October 2019 of the
UNHCR-World Bank Joint Data Centre on Forced Displacement.

214 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

© UNHCR/James Male Kiwalabye

The Global Compact on Refugees and the first Global Refugee Forum encouraged development
actors to strengthen their engagement in the humanitarian-development-peace nexus. UNHCR
played a catalytic role in supporting host governments to strengthen complementarity of
programmes and policy interventions by development actors, targeting areas hosting forcibly displaced
populations.

Hope for a refugee child of becoming
an electrical engineer
With financial support from the Netherlands,
David Kiiza, a refugee born in the Democratic Republic
of the Congo (DRC), secured a scholarship from UNHCR
to study electrical installation at Nakivale Vocational
Training Centre in Uganda.
Through the Prospects Partnership, the Netherlands
brings UNHCR, UNICEF, ILO, the World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation together to provide
decent work opportunities for skilled young people
like David, lifting the local economy and increasing
earnings.
The type of initiative available through the Prospects Partnership will allow refugees to send their children
to school and further invest in household self-reliance. David says that he is happy and motivated to complete
his course.
“I am already an engineer because I can wire a house and do any electrical work.”
—David Kiiza, a refugee from the DRC in Uganda.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 215

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

VOLUNTARY RETURN AND LOCAL INTEGRATION
© UNHCR/John Wessels

infrastructure. Nearly 13,000 individuals
benefitted from livelihood and
cash-for-work activities, job placements
and entrepreneurial skills development,
with many later establishing grocery
shops or wool-spinning projects.
The African Union declared 2019 the
year of refugees, returnees and IDPs.
This encouraged States parties to adopt
national laws and policies. Equatorial
Guinea acceded to the African Union
Convention for the Protection and
Assistance of Internally Displaced
Persons in Africa, also known as the
Kampala Convention, which remains
the world’s only legally binding regional
instrument on internal displacement.

Binianga Asiya and her family are Congolese returnees living in their new house in Tshikapa, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

317,291

55,000

refugees returned to their country of origin

people of concern were supported with
naturalization processes

compared to 593,814 in 2018

compared to 62,600 in 2018

41

42

situations in which refugees were supported
to return voluntarily in safety and in dignity,
where conditions permitted

situations in which refugees were supported
to integrate

compared to 40 in 2018

compared to 31 in 2018

Voluntary return
For more
information on
solutions, see
Chapter 5 of the
2019 Global
Trends

The number of refugees who returned in
2019 decreased from 593,814 in 2018 to
317,291 in 2019—a 46% decrease when
compared with 2018. UNHCR worked with
governments and key humanitarian and
development partners to ensure sustainable
conditions for the reintegration of returnees
and IDPs. For example, in Afghanistan,

216 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

15 priority areas were selected based on
government planning, the number of
returnees and the range of communities’
protection needs. UNHCR projects
supported 334,028 people, around a third
of the total population in priority areas,
with cash and in-kind assistance,
shelter, education and skills training,
entrepreneurial support, quick impact
livelihood projects, and public

Other African countries took measures
to support solutions for IDPs and refugees.
The Central African Republic established a
national strategy for sustainable solutions
for IDPs and returned refugees covering
2018 to 2021, with UNDP and UNHCR as
facilitators. In Chad, the National Commission
for Reception and Reintegration of
Refugees and Repatriated Persons was
tasked to support the implementation
of the Kampala Convention, while the
Government of Niger adopted a law on
the protection of, and assistance to, IDPs.
To create conditions for the safe,
sustainable and voluntary return and
reintegration of refugees and IDPs
following adoption of the Nairobi
Declaration, the Federal Government
of Somalia drafted a national policy for
refugees, returnees and IDPs; a land
distribution policy for returning refugees
and IDPs; and a national disaster
management plan. Mogadishu is home
to nearly 400,000 IDPs, more than a third
of the country’s IDPs. More than half (55%)
are concentrated in two of Mogadishu’s
peripheral districts and live in informal
settlements within urban areas, a sign

that protracted internal displacement is
becoming an urban phenomenon.
In response, UNHCR identified collective
aims to be achieved by 2022, including risk
and vulnerability mitigation; strengthening
the resilience of IDPs, refugee returnees
and host communities; and searching for
durable solutions for 100,000 displaced
households.
Despite complex security situations
and fragile peace, UNHCR observed
self-organized refugee and IDP returns
to or within places like the Syrian Arab
Republic (Syria) and South Sudan. In Syria,
between November 2018 and January 2019,
UNHCR conducted its fifth Refugee
Perceptions and Intentions Survey in Egypt,
Iraq, Jordan and Lebanon with Syrian
refugees. The majority (75%) hoped to
return to Syria eventually, but only 5.9%
intended to return in 2019. Most wanted
to return to their place of origin (93%).
Refugees planning to return were
motivated by better security, family
reunification, and livelihood opportunities.
To improve return conditions, UNHCR
strengthened its support and capacity in
documentation, pre-departure vaccination,
health referrals, housing, land and property,
legal counselling and return monitoring.

Syrian refugees’
perception and
intentions on
return to Syria
FIFTH REGIONAL SURVEY ON

SYRIAN REFUGEES’ PERCEPTIONS
AND INTENTIONS ON RETURN
TO SYRIA
Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan – March 2019

In 2019, UNHCR worked with the
South Sudan Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission and others to monitor
self-organized returnees. It also advocated
including vulnerable returnees in existing
aid programmes. In countries hosting
South Sudanese refugees, a Regional
Intention Survey was organized, to help
prepare for possible returns. In Sudan,
UNHCR and other UN agencies supported
the Government in designing and launching
a project to implement the peace process,
with three main priority areas identified:
rule of law, durable solutions and community
peacebuilding. In Ethiopia, to make returns
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 217

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

more sustainable, refugees were included
in a government-run national justice
perception survey, with the report
available in 2020.

Local integration and solutions

Ethiopia law
grants more
rights to
refugees

Refugees’ local integration is a complex
and gradual process, comprising distinct
but inter-related legal, economic, social
and cultural dimensions, all of which are
important for refugees’ ability to integrate
successfully as full members of society.

Civil registration, documentation and
legal stay options for refugees and
asylum-seekers was a focus in several
countries. In Zambia, UNHCR advocated
issuing residence permits for 10,000 former
Angolan refugees and 4,000 former
Rwandan refugees as part of the legal
integration process. Namibia also began
formalizing the residency and inclusion of

218 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

former Angolan refugees. In Gambia and
Guinea Bissau, more than 5,000 refugees
gained citizenship in 2019. Some
55,000 refugees were naturalized, a
decrease of 12% compared to 62,600 in
2018. UNHCR and governments worked
to improve refugees’ access to adequate
housing, exploring options to include
them in national housing services and
pursuing alternatives to camps, as in the
Kurdistan region of Iraq, and in Niger.
During the Global Refugee Forum,
several countries pledged to advance
and promote local integration and
solutions. The DRC committed to
offering 10-year residence permits to the
200,000 Rwandan refugees who opted
to stay in the DRC after their status clause
ended, while the Government of Liberia
pledged to provide land for agriculture
and permanent housing to 5,000 locallyintegrated Ivorian refugees.

Constraints and unmet needs
Sustainable voluntary repatriation is
contingent on addressing the root causes
of displacement. Despite some promising
steps, many countries could not offer
displaced populations safe and dignified
returns.
More displaced people were gravitating
towards urban centres rather than their
places of origin, requiring a different
response for housing, infrastructure and

service delivery. Development actors
needed greater understanding of trends in
urbanization and increased engagement in
support of refugees and host communities.
Sustainable reintegration was hindered in
Sudan when returnees did not receive their
civil documentation, which was mainly
available locally. As in several other
contexts, access to land also remained
a concern, leading to secondary
displacement. Some IDP families in Iraq

returned to camps after discovering
partially damaged houses, homes occupied
by relatives, or finding themselves unable
to pay rent on return. UNHCR continued
“know-before-you-go” campaigns as well
as “go-and-see” visits to support access
to reliable information ahead of returning.

Delivering through partnerships
© UNHCR/Adrienne Surprenant

UNHCR welcomed Ethiopia’s historic new
refugee proclamation in January 2019,
which enables refugees who have stayed
in the country for a protracted period to
locally integrate, if they wish to do so.
The Proclamation also provides refugees
the right to acquire work permits; access
primary education; obtain drivers’ licenses;
register life events, such as births and
marriages; and open bank accounts. The
Abuja Action Statement was reaffirmed,
calling for proactive approaches to local
integration and alternatives to camps.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Central African Republic
returnees rebuild their lives
While parts of the country remain
unstable because of the conflict that has now
lasted for over five years, a recent peace
agreement between the Government of the CAR
and armed groups has brought security to other
areas.
UNHCR and partners are working closely with
the Government and those of asylum countries
to organize and assist refugees who have made
an informed choice to voluntarily return to the
CAR to do so in safety and in dignity.
Returning from the Republic of Congo, Clavette Bodo is one of them, using the voluntary return money
she received to rebuild her destroyed house in Mongoumba.
For those who choose to return, UNHCR and partners, including WFP, UNICEF and
UNFPA, provide relocation support of three months of food and a modest cash grant,
yellow fever vaccines, and sanitary kits for women. Altogether, 116,000 CAR refugees
have voluntarily chosen to return home since 2016.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 219

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

© UNHCR/Sebastian Rich

Somali refugees aboard a flight from Dadaab to be resettled in Sweden.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

81,671

63,726

81

refugees identified in need
of resettlement, submitted
for resettlement

UNHCR-facilitated
resettlement departures

country operations
submitted refugees
for resettlement

compared to 81,337 in 2018

compared to 55,680 in 2018

compared to 82 in 2018

For more
information on
solutions, see
Chapter 5 of the
2019 Global
Trends
GLOBAL FORCED
DISPLACEMENT
TRENDS IN 2019

Against a backdrop of continuing largescale forced displacement, resettlement
and complementary pathways remained
important tools for protection and solutions
for some of the world’s most vulnerable
refugees as well as tangible demonstrations
of solidarity and responsibility-sharing.
In total, 81 UNHCR operations submitted
81,671 refugees to 29 countries for
resettlement consideration. The majority
(three-quarters) of those submitted
in 2019 originated from just five countries:
the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria, 29,660),
the Democratic Republic of the Congo
(DRC, 18,997), Afghanistan (5,892),

220 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Somalia (4,393) and Eritrea (3,147), all of
which suffered from protracted conflict
or insecurity.
States accepted more than 90% of the
cases referred by UNHCR. The largest
number of UNHCR-facilitated resettlement
departures in 2019 were from five major
refugee-hosting countries, including Turkey
(10,558), Lebanon (8,359), Jordan (5,501),
the United Republic of Tanzania (4,030)
and Egypt (3,995). Women and girls
comprised half (50%) of those submitted
for resettlement and 52% were children,
while urgent/emergency submissions
represented 18% of all submissions.

Lifesaving mechanisms for evacuation,
resettlement and other solutions were
expanded by establishing a second
Emergency Transit Mechanism (ETM)
facility in Rwanda, which opened on
10 September 2019. In all, 878 people
were evacuated from Libya through the
mechanism in Niger; 393 people were
evacuated to Italy; 452 were evacuated to
Romania; and 306 to Rwanda, where the
first seven evacuees later departed for
resettlement. In Central America, the
Protection Transfer Arrangement (PTA)
continued to provide people at serious
risk with safe and legal access to a
resettlement country. Of the 1,023 people
processed from El Salvador, Guatemala
and Honduras, 716 were resettled in
five countries.

in the Southern Cone (Argentina, Brazil
and Chile). The ERCM culminated in
September 2019, having started in 2016.

UNHCR and IOM worked together on
the Emerging Resettlement Countries
Joint Support Mechanism (ERCM) and
expanded the overall resettlement base

An objective of the Global Compact
on Refugees was to expand refugees’
access to third-country solutions as
a means of achieving comprehensive
refugee responses. In 2019, UNHCR and
stakeholders launched the "Three Year
(2019-2021) Strategy on Resettlement
and Complementary Pathways". Its aim
is to increase the number of refugees
obtaining solutions through resettlement
or complementary pathways by, for example,
greater opportunities in education and
labour, and its targets are ambitious.
By the end of 2028, the strategy aims
to have 3 million refugees benefit from
effective protection and solutions
through resettlement (1 million refugees)
in 50 resettlement countries and
complementary pathways (2 million refugees).

GLOBAL RESETTLEMENT SUBMISSIONS
BY CATEGORY | 2019

GLOBAL RESETTLEMENT
DEPARTURES | 2015 -2019

11%
11%
12%
12%

31%
31%

Ind iv i du a l s

RESETTLEMENT AND COMPLEMENTARY PATHWAYS

140,000

The Three-Year Strategy (2019-2021)
on Resettlement and
Complementary Pathways
June 2019

126,291

105,000
81,891
65,108

70,000
14%
14%

The Three Year
(2019-2021)
Strategy on
Resettlement and
Complementary
Pathways

55,680

63,726

35,000
31%
31%

Legal and/or physical protection needs
Legal and/or physical protection needs
Survivor of violence and/or torture
Survivor of violence and/or torture
Women and girls at risk
Women and girls at risk
Lack of foreseeable alternative durable solutions
Lack of foreseeable alternative durable solutions
Other
Other

0

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

Zimbabwe | 2%
Zimbabwe | 2%
Zambia | 7%
Zambia | 7%
South Africa
South
Africa Office | 9%
Multi-Country
Multi-Country Office | 9%
Mozambique | 3%
Mozambique | 3%
Malawi | 7%

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 221

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

More than 63,000 refugees assisted by
UNHCR were resettled in 2019, surpassing
the 60,000 target.
To achieve these targets, in 2019 UNHCR
enhanced its operational capacity. For
example, it used innovative processing
methods and leveraged data and evidence
to monitor global progress against
submission targets.

Doubling our
Impact: Third
Country Higher
Education
Pathways for
Refugees

DOUBLING
OUR IMPACT
THIRD COUNTRY HIGHER EDUCATION
PATHWAYS FOR REFUGEES

COMPLEMENTARY PATHWAYS
FOR ADMISSION OF REFUGEES
TO THIRD COUNTRIES
Key considerations
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
Division of International Protection (DIP), April 2019

In 2019, UNHCR issued “Key considerations
for complementary pathways”, while taking
steps to build its operational architecture.
It released internal guidance on planning
and reporting on complementary pathways,
introduced staff positions to cover this
area of work in various regions, and forged
internal partnerships for advancing
complementary pathways.

Constraints and unmet needs

The Office launched a pilot project for
family reunification covering the Central
Mediterranean region with six staff
deployed to Egypt, Ethiopia, Libya
and Sudan to assist the most vulnerable
unaccompanied children. As a result,
UNHCR reached approximately
600 children, conducted 129 best
interests determinations, and referred
129 children for legal assistance.
UNHCR also enhanced its engagement
with partners working on complementary
pathways. With the World University
Service of Canada, it convened the first
conference on education pathways at
UNESCO in Paris. The conference was the
first step in engaging relevant actors in a
task force on education pathways, guided
by the Three-Year Strategy and aimed at
expanding education pathways globally.
The conference produced a guidance
report specifying steps to build education
programmes.
Partnerships with the ILO, the OECD,
Talent Beyond Boundaries and United
World Colleges were also strengthened in
2019. The OECD-UNHCR study, “Safe
pathways for refugees”, was updated to
include 2018 data, and discussions with
non-OECD countries began for their
inclusion in future editions.

Less than 5% of global resettlement needs
were met in 2019, meaning a small fraction
of those at risk found a safe and lasting
solution to their plight.

© UNHCR/Annie Sakkab

UNHCR's
Complementary
pathways for
admission of
refugees to third
countries - Key
considerations

In August 2019, a new Priority Situations
Core Group was established, under the
co-chairmanship of Ireland and Sweden,
to boost support for resettlement and
complementary pathways, facilitate joint
advocacy between States and UNHCR,
and maximize the impact of resettlement
for refugees at risk in countries under
the Syria and Central Mediterranean
priority situations. UNHCR and IOM also
launched the Sustainable Resettlement
and Complementary Pathways
Initiative, crucial for implementing the
Three-Year Strategy. In line with the
strategy, the initiative seeks to grow
sustainable resettlement programmes
and advance complementary pathways
for admission through multi-stakeholder
partnerships and targeted capacitybuilding of States and key actors.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

The lack of consistent information-sharing
among States and partners hindered the
comprehensive and accurate counting
of refugees accessing pathways separate
from government-sponsored resettlement
programmes. During the past few years,
UNHCR has worked closely with
resettlement States to conclude or revise
data-sharing agreements that ensure the
safe, secure and reliable transfer of data.
Further partnerships were needed to
support people of concern who require
legal, financial, and in-kind assistance to
access complementary pathways. Overly
restrictive visa requirements kept many
refugees from accessing potentially
life-changing programmes.

Syrian software developer
starts new life as Canadian
skilled worker
After eight years in Lebanon, Mohammed Hakmi
is the first refugee to arrive in Canada as a skilled
worker under an innovative pilot programme.
Bonfire Interactive, a Canadian tech company
in Kitchener, Ontario, recently welcomed
Mohammed to their team.
“We’ve got a great candidate who went through
the same process other candidates go through,
very high technical ability, good communication
skills, everything you’d expect.”
—Corry Flatt, Bonfire’s CEO.
Mohammed sees the model as “a two-way benefit” because employers are helping to change the lives
of refugees for the better and, in return, they profit from their skills and talents.
This belief in a win-win situation is at the heart of Talent Beyond Boundaries (TBB), an organization that
matches employers to refugees who have the skills they need, which is how Bonfire found Mohammed.
In Lebanon and Jordan, TBB has identified over 10,000 Syrian professionals in IT, engineering, trades,
accounting and health care, most of the whom are unable to work, so their skills go unused.
The Canadian Government created an innovative pilot programme, called the Economic
Mobility Pathways Project, to test the possibility for refugees to immigrate as skilled workers.
Mohammed is its first success story.

222 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 223

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

ACCESS TO QUALITY EDUCATION
© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

Encouragingly, the education theme
at the Global Refugee Forum received
vast support, with 68 stakeholders,
including 16 States, joining the Education
Co-sponsorship Alliance. More than
204 pledges were received on education
(27 of them cross-cutting other themes).
Pledges, made by governments,
humanitarian and development actors,
covered a range of activities: inclusion in
national development plans and education
systems; teacher training; scholarships for
higher education; support to language
learning; support to girls and women;
development of early childhood education;
better education infrastructure; and
continued or increased financing of
education in emergencies.

Afghan refugee children stand outside a school in an Islamabad settlement, Pakistan.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

1,136,002

63,888

8,362

children of concern enrolled
in primary education

children of concern
enrolled in secondary
education in four countries

students supported in
tertiary education

compared to 1,076,935 in 2018

compared to 51,649 in 2018

compared to 6,866 in 2018

10

10

operations supported in
strengthening educational
programming for out-of-school
children

operations supported in
increasing access and
enrolment to secondary
education

compared to 5 in 2018

compared to 4 in 2018

Refugee
Education 2030:
A strategy for
Refugee Inclusion
REFUGEE
EDUCATION

2030

A Strategy for
Refugee Inclusion

2019 EDITION

Throughout 2019, UNHCR worked to
support access to quality primary and
secondary education to refugee, asylumseeker, returnee and internally displaced
children and youth around the world,
with its educational activities aligned
with “Refugee education 2030: a strategy
for refugee inclusion”. Launched in
September 2019, the strategy outlines the
Office’s approach to supporting refugee
inclusion in national education systems,

224 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

in line with the Compact and SDG 4
(ensure inclusive and equitable quality
education and promote lifelong learning
opportunities for all). Activities to support
the provision of quality education included
construction of, or improvements to, school
facilities; the distribution of teaching and
learning materials; specialized teacher
training; cash assistance for vulnerable
households; and skills training, also linked
with employment.

Refugee enrolment in primary school rose
from 61% to 63%, while secondary level
enrolment increased from 23% to 24%.
More refugees were also accessing higher
education, rising from 1% to 3%. Peer-topeer schemes were set up with UNHCR
support, enabling operations to share
challenges and lessons learned in
facilitating refugee children’s access
to primary education in Cameroon,
Egypt, Ghana, Iraq, Malaysia, Mexico,
Mozambique, Pakistan, Rwanda

and South Sudan. These same 10 countries
were also supported to prioritize refugee
children’s access to secondary education
as part of the Secondary Youth Education
Initiative, which promotes the inclusion
of refugee learners in national education
systems. In tertiary education, UNHCR’s
higher education scholarship programme,
DAFI (Albert Einstein German Academic
Refugee Initiative) continued to offer
financial support to undergraduate
refugees. UNHCR supported
8,362 refugee students in 54 countries
with a DAFI scholarship, with more than
2,643 newly-enrolled students. In 2019,
the programme opened in Mexico,
Afghanistan and Somalia, with additional
focus on returnees in the latter two
countries. UNHCR also supported the
launch of the Tertiary Refugee Student
Network, a global network of refugee
students from different programmes,
which is committed to the Office’s goal
of enabling 15% of refugee students
to access higher education by 2030.
In 2019, more than 12,600 additional
students were enrolled in digital blended
programmes through the Connected
Learning in Crisis Consortium including
in bachelor and master’s degrees,
preparatory programmes and professional
development. Consortium membership
grew to 27 university and higher education
partners in 21 countries, all dedicated
to increasing access to blended higher
education opportunities. In 2019, 11 countries
received remote and field-based technical
assistance to strengthen educational data
management.

Tertiary Refugee
Student Network

Connected
Learning in Crisis
Consortium

UNHCR continued its leadership of the
inter-agency Accelerated Education
Working Group (AEWG), collaborating
and strengthening partnerships straddling
the humanitarian and development nexus.
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 225

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Constraints and unmet needs
Funding remained inadequate to meet
growing education needs. This was
demonstrated by the large number of
out-of-school refugee and displaced
children and youth, both at primary and
secondary levels, and by the high number
of applications that were received for the
DAFI tertiary education scholarship
programme but could not be met. Further
evidence could be found in the ambition

In situations where the legal framework
and policy environment was not conducive
with inclusion in national systems, children
and youth may have had no educational
alternatives besides parallel systems
offering uncertified, poor quality education.
Ministries of education in host countries
may have lacked the capacity or support to
meet the education needs of refugees and
the internally displaced, particularly at the
onset of an emergency. More area-based
approaches where the host community is
included were needed, as nationals often
have similar or sometimes even worse
educational conditions than refugees.

Azeem Mohamed, 27, sells spices at his shop in Al-Asif Square market in Karachi, Pakistan. Afghan refugees like Azeem benefit from a 2019 law allowing them to
open bank accounts.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

17
financial service providers in 12 countries
offered financial services to refugees

A lack of robust data in 2019 continued to
hamper advocacy and programming at all
education levels, including in accelerated
education programmes. Efforts were
underway to improve education data
management, in line with UNHCR’s data
transformation strategy for 2020 to 2025.

Vodafone Foundation has been a flagship
partner for UNHCR since 2013, expanding
refugees’ access to education and connectivity
through the Instant Network Schools programme. As of the
end of 2019, there are 35 Instant Network Schools in Kenya,
the United Republic of Tanzania, South Sudan and the DRC.
Since the programme’s inception, it is estimated that the
Instant Network Schools programme has reached over
130,000 students and over 2,000 teachers.
In December 2019, Vodafone Foundation and UNHCR announced the ambitious plan to scale up to 255 schools
and improve learning outcomes for 500,000 refugee and host community students by 2025.
Selected schools will be provided with a digital package that includes computer tablets, a laptop,
solar-powered batteries, connectivity and a suite of digital learning material. The programme is
supported by a dedicated team at Vodafone Foundation and more than 50 employee volunteers
worldwide.

30%
of refugees lived in countries with
the right to work

compared to 16 financial service providers
in 10 countries in 2018

© UNHCR/Sebastian Rich

Expanded programme to benefit more
than 500,000 young refugees

226 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

LIVELIHOODS AND ECONOMIC INCLUSION

and success of the AEWG, in line with the
capacity and funding available to meet
demand. Furthermore, UNHCR lacked
dedicated education personnel in many
field locations, limiting its capacity to
effectively mobilize humanitarian and
development funding at country level.

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

The AEWG worked with governments
and key stakeholders to improve
programme quality for both refugees
and host communities. In 2019, the AEWG
collaborated with governments and partners
to harmonize accelerated education at a
national level in Kenya, Pakistan and
Uganda; conducted a global mapping of
accelerated education programmes in
51 countries; developed an Accelerated
Education Monitoring and Evaluation Toolkit;
and advocated key donors’ support for
accelerated education. One of the working
group’s key achievements was the inclusion
of the AEWG’s tools and guidance in
ECHO’s “Education in emergencies” policy
document.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

34%

53%

of refugees lived in countries with the
unrestricted right to freedom of movement

of refugees lived in countries with the
unrestricted right to access bank accounts

In 2019, UNHCR engaged with partners to
enhance the economic inclusion of refugees
and other forcibly displaced communities.
Platforms were established to promote
and advocate multi-stakeholder actions
and commitments in the lead up to the
Global Refugee Forum in December 2019.
Progress looked promising, as more than
125 pledges for jobs and livelihoods were
received during the Forum and 35 good
practice examples of refugee inclusion shared.

entrepreneurship forums engaging the
private sector, governments, NGOs and
refugee communities in Argentina, Brazil,
Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Estonia, Ghana,
Italy, Mozambique, Pakistan, Panama and
Ukraine to promote and advocate refugees’
access to entrepreneurship and employment
opportunities. These countries were
chosen based on needs and opportunities
identified by refugees, local partners and
UNHCR.

Over the year, with IOM, OECD and UNCTAD,
UNHCR organized 14 employment and

Following presentations of the OECDUNHCR joint publication “Engaging with
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 227

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

employers in the hiring of refugees” and
the UNCTAD-IOM-UNHCR “Policy guide
on entrepreneurship for migrants and
refugees”, policy- and programme-related
recommendations were developed by
different stakeholders to facilitate the hiring
of refugees and establish refugee-owned
businesses. These forums enabled local
firms to share best practice and
encouraged peer companies to hire
refugees. They also helped form a local
network of companies and organizations
committed to including refugees and
encouraged links across countries,
including with multi-national companies
committed to hiring refugees and offering
them apprenticeship programmes; and
with government agencies committed to
enhancing refugee employment.

Advancing economic and financial
inclusion of refugees

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Brazil, Ecuador, Jordan, Kenya, Lebanon,
Malawi, Morocco, Peru, Rwanda, Tunisia and
Uganda are now offering financial services
to refugees, while more than 15 others are
working on doing likewise.

intervention that supports the poorest
and most vulnerable households to
achieve sustained income and move out
of extreme poverty within a specified
period (18-36 months). Targeting for
the Graduation Approach is contextspecific and draws on socioeconomic
criteria. Four joint proposals for funding
in three countries have been approved,
while five are awaiting decision.

A joint initiative with Grameen Crédit
Agricole Foundation and Sida was launched
in 2019, providing technical assistance to
three financial service providers in Uganda
(BRAC, Ugafode and VisionFund). Services,
such as microcredit, are expected to benefit
100,000 refugees and host community
members in the next four years, most of
whom (70%) are women.

MADE51 helps craftspeople who have fled
conflict or persecution achieve economic
inclusion by providing a global platform
to market and sell their crafts. In 2018
and 2019, MADE51 was implemented in
15 countries, in partnership with 22 local
social enterprises. This enabled more than
2,600 refugee and host community artisans
to access market opportunities. In 2019
alone, MADE51 participated in six events
reaching more than 500 buyers.

In 2019, UNHCR and the ILO conducted
rapid market assessments in Ethiopia,
Malawi and Thailand. More than 15 joint
market assessments have been finalized
in the past three years. The countries
were chosen based on needs identified
by UNHCR and local partners.
These assessments identify gaps
and opportunities in refugees’ access to
economic opportunities, informing plans
to enhance refugees’ economic inclusion
in each country.

Efforts continued to include refugees and
other forcibly displaced people in national
systems and development plans through
UN Development Assistance Frameworks
at country level.
In Iraq, a vulnerability assessment model
aligned to a government and World Bank
system is helping allocate multi-purpose
cash grants. It has identified up to 2.8 million
highly vulnerable people requiring assistance.

Alleviating poverty for refugees
The Poverty
Alleviation
Coalition

INCREASING INCOME FOR THE
WORLD’S POOREST REFUGEES AND
THIER HOSTS

Access to affordable financial services,
such as bank accounts, mobile money,
loans and credit, are key to ensuring
refugees’ financial inclusion. These enable
them to cope with negative shocks, reduce
their exposure to risk and stimulate
economic activity in their communities
as consumers, producers and businessowners. Following UNHCR’s outreach,
17 financial service providers in Argentina,
228 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

The Coalition implements the Graduation
Approach–a sequenced, multi-sector

© UNHCR/Sebastian Rich

POVERTY
ALLEVIATION
COALITION

In July 2019, UNHCR launched the “Poverty
Alleviation Coalition” with the Partnership
for Economic Inclusion of the World Bank
and several NGO partners, including BRAC,
The BOMA Project, Caritas, Concern, the
Danish Refugee Council, GOAL, HIAS,
Innovations for Poverty Action, Mercy Corps,
Norwegian Refugee Council, Trickle Up,
Village Enterprise, and World Vision.
Through this coalition, partners aim at
supporting 500,000 refugees and host
community households in 35 countries
within five years in their journey out of
poverty.

Potential referrals will be made to various
social protection schemes, including those
administered by the Government for poverty
reduction. Efforts to strengthen links
between humanitarian, development
and State actors include the National
Development Plan, Poverty Reduction
Strategy 2028-2022 and the Social
Protection Strategic Roadmap 2015-2019.

Constraints and unmet needs
UNHCR and partners raised awareness
of refugees’ potential to be contributors
to their host communities and economies.
However, legal barriers, a lack of awareness
of how refugees’ economic inclusion can be
supported, as well as the limited capacity or
presence of some actors to offer services
in remote refugee locations, all limited
refugees’ access to the labour market
and financial services.
The 2019 UNHCR Global Livelihoods and
Economic Inclusion Survey revealed
70% of refugees lived in countries with
restricted right to work; 66% of refugees
lived in countries with restricted freedom
of movement; and 47% of refugees lived
in countries with restricted access to
bank accounts. These statistics highlight
the need to continue advocating towards
more favorable conditions enabling
refugees’ economic inclusion.

An ingenious and inclusive approach
to agricultural livelihood in Rwanda
UNHCR and the IKEA Foundation have been
creating livelihood opportunities for refugees
and host communities since 2012.
An example comes from Rwanda where, since 2018,
1,427 Congolese refugee and host community farmers have
farmed land provided by the Government of Rwanda. The earnings from the harvest provide a sustainable income,
helping families cover their basic needs, and improving children’s access to education. Additionally, a
portion of the earnings is reinvested in agricultural activities to maintain and improve future crops.
This project has enhanced livelihoods, improved food security and encouraged social cohesion
between refugees and host communities.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 229

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

STRENGTHENING CITY NETWORKS AND SUPPORTING
THE URBAN DISPLACED
© UNHCR/Will Swanson

Congolese refugee Aimee Vwase at RefuSHE in Nairobi, Kenya, where urban refugees find skills and friendships.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

5

225

urban contexts in which UNHCR had a shelter
response strategy

cities engaged in refugee advocacy through
the Cities #WithRefugees initiative
compared to 126 in 2018

According to projections, it is likely that
by 2050, 6.7 billion (68%) of the world’s
population will live in cities, while the
current figure is 4.2 billion (55%). This
situation is similar for refugees, IDPs,
stateless persons and asylum-seekers,
with more than half living in urban settings,
often in situations where essential services
are overstretched or inaccessible and
national social safety nets are not fully
accessible. Refugees in urban settings
live in privately hosted and out-of-camp
individual accommodation. As recognized
in the Global Compact on Refugees, city
or municipal administrations are
increasingly important for delivering
protection, assistance and solutions
to people of concern to UNHCR.
230 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

In 2019, the Office tackled both policy and
operational challenges related to cities and
urban displacement through integrated
support to national and local governments
to enable them to absorb the needs of
people of concern. To support cities in this
endeavour, UNHCR also provided refugees
and others of concern with cash assistance
for basic needs covering rent and essential
items, while facilitating education, child
protection and mitigating sexual and
gender-based violence. The Office also
established community outreach networks
as well as complaints and feedback
mechanisms. It provided identification
and documentation, engaged in case
management and legal advice, and
monitored protection concerns.

In 2019, the partnership with UN-Habitat
delivered the first draft of “Guidance
for responding to displacement in urban
areas”, as well as assessment methodologies,
including settlement profiling tools that
prioritize developing interventions in
settlements. The tools are applicable at
any scale, including in urban areas, and
build on several years of development
and implementation of the “Master Plan”
process for sustainable settlements. They
were used in 2019 in Kebribeyah, Ethiopia,
and Nakivale, Uganda, for multi-sectoral
spatial assessment and to plan future
interventions.
The presence of large refugee or IDP
populations in urban areas can strain
the capacities of local authorities and
put pressure on basic social services,
such as education, health, housing, civil
documentation, justice, and water and
waste management. At the operational
level, UNHCR adapted how protection
and assistance are delivered. With
UN-Habitat, it deployed technical experts
to urban settlements. For example, an
urban planning specialist in Cox’s Bazar,
Bangladesh, carried out detailed planning

and analysis inside Kutupalong camp and
across the district with local government.
This produced a detailed district settlement
profile, which supported the Asian
Development Bank and Government
stakeholders’ understanding and
prioritizing of current needs and future
investments in the area, benefiting both
refugees and host communities.
Shelter and settlement response strategies
covering urban contexts were developed
for Iraq, Lebanon, the Syrian Arab Republic,
Ukraine and Yemen. Globally, most
people of concern to UNHCR in urban
areas live in privately hosted and individual
accommodation. While finding safe and
affordable housing is a challenge for
everyone in the lower economic strata,
refugees and IDPs can face additional
barriers, such as not knowing how to find,
or not being able to secure, somewhere to
rent; not possessing the necessary rental
documentation; and not understanding
local, informal rental mechanisms.
UNHCR’s “Rental assistance guidelines”
facilitated a standardized approach to
establishing cash-for-rent programmes for
all people of concern to UNHCR.

Cities stand #WithRefugees at the Global Refugee Forum
UNHCR sought to anchor cities’ implementation of the Compact in international refugee and
migrant policy fora, including in the lead up to the Global Refugee Forum. More than 50 pledges
directly involving local authorities, and those given through the efforts of global city networks were
made. Pledges by international organizations, NGOs and academic institutions included engagement with local
authorities varying from capacity-building efforts to addressing the challenges of including the forcibly displaced in
urban areas.
Pledges were made by cities ranging from Bristol to Milan and São Paulo at the Global Refugee Forum. Bristol
pledged to create a bespoke programme facilitating refugee entrepreneurship with local businesses and civil
society. Milan pledged to pilot a municipal website to expand and strengthen in-person services, facilitating access
to verified and updated information about hiring procedures for asylum-seekers and employers. São Paulo
committed to creating the city’s first municipal migration policy, in consultation with hundreds of locally-elected
migrant and refugee representatives.
Durban (eThekwini municipality), in South Africa, pledged to improve social cohesion between refugees and host
community members. It also committed to set up “one-stop shops” to provide information, as well as linguistic
and cultural mediation, for migrants, refugees and asylum-seekers, so they could effectively access
health care, education and welfare services. Advocacy efforts were also strengthened through the
Cities #WithRefugees initiative, which recognizes the importance of municipalities as advocacy and
communications partners.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 231

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

While rental support was scaled-up in
urban contexts, there were in-kind
solutions in many locations. In cities across
Argentina (400), Bolivia (516), Chile (933)
and Paraguay (112), 1,961 people of concern
were assisted with transitional shelter.
In Argentina, UNHCR provided food
and non-food items, as well as home
appliances, to vulnerable Venezuelans
in four cities. The Office also supported
infrastructure improvements in
12 community shelters run by civil society
organizations and local governments,
providing shelter to 400 people of
concern, including 200 women. In
Santiago, Chile, UNHCR provided financial
and technical support to seven community
shelters hosting Venezuelan families.
Financial support was given to five partners
so they could refer people to alternative
emergency accommodation in the cities of
Antofagasta, Arica, Iquique and Santiago.

Mastura Ekhlas, an Afghan refugee, arrived in
Germany in 2013. On inquiring at the job centre, she found
Volkswagen had a year-long qualification programme for
refugees at its huge plant and logistics centre in Baunatal
and, once accepted, gave everything to impress her
superiors.
Volkswagen’s programme started in 2017 and has helped
5,000 refugees across its sites. Its entry qualification
couples a traditional programme with extra
language tuition to help newcomers find
their feet in the German workplace.

232 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

Constraints and unmet needs
Despite some notable success, multiple
challenges remained for displaced
populations in cities. Refugees faced
numerous disadvantages; these include
lack of community support systems,
uncertain legal status and legal restrictions,
cultural and linguistic differences, exclusion
from social security systems or health
insurance schemes, and insufficient income
or support to meet even half of their basic
needs, such as rent or food. Stigma and
discrimination also reduced access to
already overstretched government
services.

Thanks to solar lighting, a Burundian refugee studies in his refugee housing unit in Kigoma refugee camp, in the United Republic of Tanzania.
2 0 1 9 R E S U LT S

© UNHCR/Gordon Welters

Refugees get traction in Germany’s auto
industry

ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

Reflecting UNHCR’s commitment to
stepping up responses in all IDP contexts,
significant support was provided to urban
IDP operations. In South Sudan, where
12,147 IDPs received shelter and
infrastructure assistance, significant
numbers of those receiving assistance
were in, or returning to, urban areas
such as Bentiu and Juba.

© UNHCR/Clemence Eliah

The guidelines were implemented during
the Venezuela situation, as well as in Iraq,
Libya, Mexico, and Nigeria.

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

1,000,000

838,220

people of concern had access to a sustainable
source of cooking fuel

tons of CO2 emissions reduced by using
cleaner sources of energy

compared to 200,000 in 2018

compared to 18,120 in 2018

100

4

UNHCR field offices participated in the
UN-wide environmental inventory

country operations where plastic waste audits
were completed

compared to 10 in 2018

compared to 2 in 2018

In 2019, UNHCR scaled up its work to
improve people of concern’s access to
sustainable and clean energy and bolster
the environmental protection of refugeehosting areas. By strengthening
collaborations with partner agencies,
it increased its technical capacity in the field.
For example, NorCap and the Swedish Civil
Contingencies Agency supported
the deployment of six energy and two
environmental experts, respectively,
to UNHCR field locations.

In line with UNHCR’s integrated approach,
highlighting the key relationship between
energy, environment and WASH, UNHCR’s
partnership with Engineers Without Borders
Norway helped solve challenges with solid
waste management. By the end of 2019,
waste audits were completed in camps in
Algeria and Zambia, leading to a plastic
waste processing and recycling proposal,
which received support from donors with
funding for innovative projects. Similar
support was received for a “trash to cash”
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 233

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

project in Ethiopia, with the Norwegian
Geotechnical Institute managing the project
in Melkadida refugee camp, in partnership
with the Norwegian Refugee Council and
with UNHCR support. The project will
improve solid waste management in the
camp and create job opportunities in the
plastic recycling facility for approximately
15 refugees and members of the host
community. In the long-term, more people are
likely to benefit as the project upscales in size
and location, and it will also give the wider
community the opportunity to collect plastic
and sell it to the recycling facility.
Collaboration between UNHCR and Land
Life Company, a Dutch social enterprise,
led to the establishment of the first ever
green refugee camp, in Minawao,
Cameroon. The project provided
environmentally-sustainable shelter and
cooking solutions, while protecting the
environment through reforestation. The
cocoon technology applied in this project,
and replicated in Sudan, has significantly
increased the survival rate of trees planted
in refugee-hosting areas. In 2019, the
project was selected as a global best
practice for delivering on the SDGs.
In a bid to have a more comprehensive
picture of the energy data and capacity
in operations worldwide, UNHCR
partnered with the Global Plan of Action
for Sustainable Energy Solutions (GPA) in
2019. The GPA brings together UN and
development agencies, the private sector,
NGOs, research institutions and donors to
develop responses that improve access to
affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern
energy services for forcibly displaced
people and their hosting areas.
UNHCR also collaborated with GIZ to
improve access to electricity and cooking
fuel in refugee hosting areas and boost
sustainable energy use at UNHCR
compounds in Ethiopia, Kenya and Uganda.
234 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S I B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

The project targets three main interventions:
improving the policy framework in the
energy sector in support of the CRRF;
market-based access to sustainable
energy for UNHCR infrastructure; and
access to sustainable energy for households,
businesses and social institutions.
UNHCR also scaled up its contribution to
UN-wide sustainability targets by better
monitoring carbon emissions. In 2019,
100 UNHCR offices participated in the
environmental inventory, which covers
emissions of greenhouse gases, waste
generation and water use—up from 10 in
2018. This enabled UNHCR to estimate
its total emissions and offset them, being
declared carbon neutral for the first time.
A Sida-commissioned study demonstrated
that converting field offices from diesel
fuel to solar energy could have a positive
carbon and financial impact. Based on this,
Sida committed seed funding to establish
an internal UNHCR green fund that would
help convert its offices. Renewable energy
will be provided through private sector
independent power producers and savings
will be reinvested in future conversions.
UNHCR and its partners successfully
scaled-up the liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) programme in Bangladesh, which not
only reduced deforestation and net carbon
emissions but also diminished the risk
to women and girls of sexual and genderbased violence (SGBV). A 2019 survey
conducted by IUCN showed that the
distribution of LPG in the camp meant a
Rohingya family currently only uses one
kilo of firewood per day, compared to
4.76 kilos before the LPG distribution
programme. As household demand for
firewood fell by 80% in the Rohingya camp,
so did the need for firewood collection
from the forest–one of the causes of
SGBV in refugee-hosting areas (see the
Climate Action Overview for more details).

Constraints and unmet needs

UNHCR continues to seek innovative and
cost-effective means of delivering
environmentally-sound services to people
of concern, while greening its own
operations.

UNHCR increasingly mainstreamed
environmental concerns in its various
activities and sectors—through its choice
of shelter materials and during
procurement—minimizing, as far as
possible, subsequent adverse
environmental impacts.
There has been a net increase in the
number of people of concern having
access to sustainable cooking fuel in 2019,
but about 80% of UNHCR’s people
of concern still rely on unclean and
unsustainable energy for their cooking
needs. UNHCR is therefore collaborating
with the Global LPG Partnership on a
concept note for a global LPG market
creation fund for refugees, for which
UNHCR will be seeking international
community support.

Global Strategy for Sustainable Energy and the Clean Energy Challenge
In October 2019 UNHCR developed and launched the “Global strategy for sustainable
energy 2019-2024”. The strategy aims to ensure that the priority energy needs of
people of concern for cooking, lighting and heating are safely and sustainably met,
supporting both refugees and host communities. In December 2019 at the Global
Refugee Forum, the High Commissioner launched the Clean Energy Challenge
underlining that its aim is for “all refugee settlements and nearby host communities
Global StrateGy
to have access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy by 2030”.
The Challenge sets an ambitious and forward-looking agenda, pushing to do more
around a measurable target that helps refugees and host communities
to access clean energy, while also delivering on commitments towards
climate action. The Challenge is aligned to the SDGs and speaks to SDG 7 (ensure access
to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all).
for SuStainable enerGy
A UNHCR StRAtegy 2019-2024

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 235

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

C A M PA I G N S A N D G O O D W I L L A M B A S S A D O R S

C A M PA I G N S A N D G O O D W I L L A M B A S S A D O R S

PUBLIC CAMPAIGNS AND GOODWILL AMBASSADOR SUPPORT
© UNHCR/Antoine Tardy

Similarly, 25 faith actors came together to communicate their commitment to upholding the
dignity of refugees through offering effective protection, access to social services, fulfilment
of human rights and enhancing peacebuilding efforts. 
Since 2016, the #WithRefugees Coalition has focused the support of powerful civil society
entities in the worlds of faith, sport, education, business, technology, and humanitarianism
to drive action and keep refugee inclusion on the global agenda. By the end of 2019 the
Coalition’s membership had grown to 500 companies, universities, foundations, faith-based
organizations, and youth groups, and had members in 82 countries. In 2019 the Coalition
amplified key communication milestones such as World Refugee Day and UNHCR’s annual
Education Report, and its thematic groups made important commitments at the Global
Refugee Forum.

Watch the video
“What does it
mean to be
stateless ?”

UNHCR’s ten year #IBelong Campaign to End Statelessness reached its mid-point in 2019,
marked by a High-Level Segment on Statelessness during the Executive Committee
meeting in October. Throughout the year, positive actions by governments and NGOs
towards the Campaign’s goals were highlighted, most notably the Kyrgyz Republic
becoming the first country to resolve all known cases of statelessness, an achievement
reflected in the choice of 2019’s Nansen Refugee Award winner.

Public campaigns
As part of its advocacy to raise empathy and increase support for refugees, IDPs and
stateless persons, UNHCR strives to engage audiences through broad-based platforms
such as World Refugee Day, the Nansen Refugee Award and the #IBelong Campaign to
End Statelessness.

Cities
#WithRefugees
initiative

“Take a Step With
Refugees”
video series

For World Refugee Day, UNHCR launched a global challenge to #StepWithRefugees.
Thousands of people walked, ran, danced, cycled or took inspiring steps in support of
refugees. Similarly, the private sector campaign, 2 Billion Kilometres to Safety, launched
in 2019, engaged over 110,000 new supporters who covered 30 million km in solidarity
with refugees. The campaign raised UNHCR's profile through promotion at major (sporting)
events, fitness apps, media and social media coverage and partnerships, and reached
over 870 million people worldwide.
UNHCR also launched its 2019 World Tour, resulting in 280 solidarity events in 190 cities
around the world. From food and music festivals to community walks and 10 km runs, the
narrative reinforcing better inclusion of refugees was loud and clear. More than 225 cities
across some 50 countries added their support to a global statement of welcome and
inclusiveness for families forced to flee. The statement is part of UNHCR’s year-old Cities
#WithRefugees initiative. The “Take a Step With Refugees” video series also highlighted
shared values between six refugees and their welcomers in Beirut, Denver, Kuala Lumpur,
Nairobi, Paris and Panama City.

236 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

©UNHCR/Mark Henley

A refugee student delegation visits Free University of Berlin on World Refugee Day 2019 in Germany.

The Nansen Refugee Award
Since the Nansen Refugee Award was established
in 1954, more than 60 people, groups and
organizations have been acknowledged for their
dedication and outstanding work on behalf of
forcibly displaced people.
Mr. Azizbek Ashurov, a lawyer whose work was
crucial in the efforts of the Kyrgyz Republic in
becoming the first country in the world to end
statelessness, was honoured as the 2019 winner.
The Award recognized Mr. Ashurov’s dedication
over sixteen years in helping thousands of people
gain Kyrgyz nationality after they became stateless
following the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
The monetary prize of $150,000, jointly donated by the Norwegian and Swiss Governments, will be used
by Mr. Ashurov to focus on the prevention of future statelessness in the Kyrgyz Republic and the region,
with the opening of a centre for legal identity and nationality in Osh, and on setting up legal clinics for law
students.
Five regional winners were also honoured with Nansen Refugee Award certificates. These were
Mr. Évariste Mfaume, the founder of NGO Solidarité des Volontaires pour l'Humanité in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, who champions the rights of Congolese people displaced by conflict as well as the
rights of refugees and their host communities; Ms. Bianka Rodriguez, a trans woman and executive director
of NGO COMCAVIS TRANS who advocates for the rights of forcibly displaced LGBTI persons in El Salvador;
Mr. Alberto Cairo, a physiotherapist in Afghanistan and head of the International Committee of the Red
Cross orthopaedic programme, who for 30 years has worked in Afghanistan to provide prosthetics and help
find jobs for injured Afghans; Humanitarian Corridors, a cross-border initiative established with
the Italian Government in 2015 to enable particularly vulnerable refugees to start a new life
in safety in Italy; and Mrs. Abeer Khreisha, a community volunteer in Jordan, known as
“the mother of Syrians” for her work helping refugees.

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 237

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

C A M PA I G N S A N D G O O D W I L L A M B A S S A D O R S

“We all have an individual duty should […refugees] reach our own doorstep in search of
safety and sanctuary that we welcome them.”

© UNHCR/Pierre Albouy

Goodwill Ambassador support

C A M PA I G N S A N D G O O D W I L L A M B A S S A D O R S

—Khaled Hosseini, novelist and UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador
With the support of a core group of diverse and committed UNHCR Goodwill Ambassadors,
celebrity supporters and influencers around the world, 2019 was another impactful year for
UNHCR in leading the global narrative on the refugee cause. By generously donating their
time and harnessing their networks, they raised awareness, leveraged fundraising, and
amplified refugee voices. Their advocacy included 73 missions across 27 countries,
reaching new and existing audiences in the hundreds of millions across a variety of media
platforms. Their support also bolstered partnerships and helped raise millions of dollars.
By conveying the humanity of the refugee story through innovative and creative projects,
they inspired empathy, uniting people in their commitment to make a real difference in the
lives of the forcibly displaced and their hosts.

Platforms were provided for young refugee advocates such as UNHCR high-profile
supporter and Syrian refugee trainee pilot, Maya Ghazal who brought her personal story
and her powerful advocacy to many events during the year, including at the Global Refugee
Forum, where she spoke about the importance of education. With determination, hope
and resilience Maya has started a new life in the UK and is currently studying Aviation
Engineering at Brunel University with the aspiration of becoming the first female Syrian
refugee pilot. Pictured with her, after her inaugural solo flight, was British actor Douglas Booth,
who has supported UNHCR since 2015. He met in Sicily with survivors of the Mediterranean
sea crossing, and with families resettled through safe and legal pathways.

The Global Refugee Forum enjoyed the prominent backing of UNHCR celebrity supporters
and refugee advocates via the #EveryoneCounts campaign. The campaign galvanized
expressions of solidarity for its core message that “everyone has a role to play”, by promoting
inclusion, compassion and tolerance, while giving refugees a voice and opportunities to
positively impact society. The main campaign video was viewed 7 million times. Other
dialogues between supporters and refugee advocates, such as Goodwill Ambassador
Ben Stiller and South Sudanese model and former refugee Adut Akech, elevated the
stories of refugees in public debate and discourse in countries around the world.

#EveryoneCounts
multi ambassador
film

Elsewhere, UNHCR supporter and Iraqi refugee, Aya Mohammed Abdullah, joined highprofile speakers to champion refugee voices at The Imagine Forum: Women for Peace,
in Iceland; while UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador and Sudanese refugee, Emi Mahmoud’s
powerful and poignant slam poetry at the Sziget festival in Hungary went viral with
1.3 million views on social media.

Through a powerful and insightful interview with activist Maha Mamo at the High-Level
Segment on Statelessness, Goodwill Ambassador Cate Blanchett brought prominence
to the global plight of an estimated 10 million stateless persons.
© László Mudra/Rockstar Photographers

© UNHCR/Pierre Albouy

238 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 239

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

EXCOM MEMBERS
AND PARTIES TO CONVENTIONS

ANNEXES
MEMBERS OF UNHCR’s EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
AND STATES PARTIES TO THE REFUGEE AND
STATELESSNESS CONVENTIONS

1951 1967

UNHCR is governed by the United Nations General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). In 1958,
ECOSOC established the Executive Committee of the High Commissioner’s Programme (ExCom), pursuant to a resolution
of the General Assembly. Its main tasks are to approve the High Commissioner’s programmes, advise the High
Commissioner in the exercise of his functions and oversee the Office’s finances and administration.
ExCom holds an annual session in Geneva every October. The 70th session took place from 7 to 11 October 2019. Meetings
of the Executive Committee’s Standing Committee are held at various dates throughout the year to carry on the work
between plenary sessions.
ExCom membership is on the widest possible geographical basis from those States (Members of the United Nations) with
a demonstrated interest in, and devotion to, the solution of refugee problems. By the end of 2019, there were 106 ExCom
members in the following table–in blue–which also shows the States parties to the 1951 Convention relating to the Status
of Refugees and its Protocol of 1967 and to the 1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons and the 1961
Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness.

ExCom members (in blue)
and other States parties
to the Conventions

Conventions on
the Status of
Stateless Persons and
Convention
relating to the Status the Reduction of
Statelessness
of Refugees and its
Protocol

1954 1961
1951 1967

Angola acceded to
the 1954 and 1961
Conventions in 2019.

Colombia and Malta
acceded to the 1954
Convention in 2019.

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas (the)
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bolivia
(Plurinational State of)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon

240 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

1951 1967

1992 1992

2003 2003

Canada
Central African Republic

1963 1967

1964

(the)

2005 2005

1981 1981

2019 2019

1995 1995

1988

1961 1967

1972 2014

1993 1993

1994 1994

1954 1973

1973 1973

1954 1973

2008 1972

1993 1993

1996 1996

1993 1993
1972
2001 2001
1953 1969

1960 2014

1990 1990

2006 2015

1962 1970

2011 2011

1982 1982

1983 1983

1993 1993

1993 1996

1969 1969

1969

1960 1972

1996 2007

1993 1993

2012 2012

1980 1980

2012 2017

1963 1971
1987
1992 1992
1961 1967

Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czechia
Dem. Rep. of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France

1954 1961

1969 1969

1978

1962 1967
1981 1981

1999 1999

1972 1972

2018 2018

1982 1982
1961 1980

2019 2014

1962 1970
1978 1978

1977 1977

1961 1970

2013 2013

1992 1992

1992 2011

1963 1968
1993 1993

2004 2001

1965 1975
1952 1968

1956 1977

1977 1977
1994 1994
1978 1978
1955 1969

1970 2012

1981 1981
1983 1983

2015

1986 1986
1997 1997
2000 1969

1999 1999

1969 1969
1972 1972

1972

1968 1968

1968 2008

1954 1971

1960

Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea‑Bissau
Haiti
Holy See
Honduras
Hungary
Iceland
India
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Norway
Pakistan
Panama

1954 1961

1964 1973
1966 1967

2014 2014

1999 1999

2011 2014

1953 1969

1976 1977

1963 1968
1960 1968

1975

1983 1983

2000 2001

1965 1968

1962 2014

1976 1976

2016 2016

1984 1984

2018 2018

1956 1967
1992 1992

2012 2012

1989 1989

2001 2009

1955 1968
1976 1976
1956 1968

1962 1973

1954 1968

1958

1954 1972

1962 2015

1964 1980

2013

1981 1982
1999 1999
1966 1981
1983 1983
1996 1996
1997 1997
1981 1981
1964 1980

1999 1992
1974 2004
1964 2004
1989 1989

1957 1968

2009 2009

1997 1997

2000 2013

1953 1971

1960 2017

1967
1987 1987

2009

1973 1973

2016 2016

1971 1971

2019

1987 1987
2000 2000

2000

1954 2010
2006 2006

2006 2013

1956 1971
1983 1989

2014 2014

1995 1995
2011 2011

1951 1967
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines
Samoa
Sao Tome and Principe
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sudan
Suriname
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Kingdom of
Great Britain
and Northern Ireland
United Republic of
Tanzania
United States of America
Uruguay

1956 1968

1962 1985

1960 1973

2006

1980 1980

2013 2013

Venezuela

1961 1970

2014 1985

(Bolivarian Republic of)

1967 1968

2011 2011

1994 1994

1994

Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

1953 1967

1956 1971

1978 1978

2011 2011

Total Parties

1954 1961

1986 1986
1970 1970

2014 2012

1964 1983

2014 2014

1981 1981

2011

1991 1991
1960 1976

2012 2012

1992 1992

1962

2002 2002

2012 2012

1991 1991

2006 2006

1993 1993
1980 1980

2006 2006

2002
1993 2003

1999

1988 1994
1978 1978
1963 1967

2005 2005

2001 2001

2001 2011

1980 1980
1981 1981

2016 2016

1993 1993

2000 2000

1992 1992

1992

1995 1995
1978 1978
1996 1996
2018 2018
1978 1978

1997 2018

1974 1974
1978 1978
1954 1967

1965 1969

1955 1968

1972

1993 1993
2003 2003
1962 1969
2000 2000

1966

1957 1968

1969 2000

1962 1968

2015

1998 1998

2011 2012

1986 1986
1976 1976

1965

2002 2002

2013 2013

1954 1968

1959 1966

In 2019, Burkina Faso,
Iceland, Mali and Malta
became ExCom
Members bringing the
total of ExCom Members
to 106.

1964 1968
1968
1970 1970

2004 2001

1986
1980 1980
1969 1969

1974

1981 1981

1998

146.

147

94

74

U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 241

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

ACRONYMS
3RP Regional Refugee and
Resilience Plan in response to
the Syria crisis
AGD Age, gender and diversity
(UNHCR)
ASEAN Association of Southeast
Asian Nations
AU African Union
BIMS Biometric Identity
Management System
BMZ Federal Ministry of Economic
Cooperation and Development
(Germany)

EU European Union

IMF International Monetary Fund

ExCom Executive Committee
of the High Commissioner’s
Programme

IOM International Organization
for Migration

FAO Food and Agriculture
Organization (UN)

CRRF Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework

UNDG United Nations
Development Group

GP20 20th anniversary of the
Guiding Principles on Internal
Displacement

JPO Junior Professional Officer

SIDA Swedish International
Development Cooperation Agency

UNDP United Nations
Development Programme

SSAR Solutions strategy for
Afghan refugees

UNEP United Nations Environment
Programme

THW Technisches Hilfswerk
(German Federal Agency for
Technical Relief)

UNESCO United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization

UN Women United Nations Entity
for Gender Equality and the
Empowerment of Women

UNFCCC United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate
Change

UNAIDS Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS

UNFPA United Nations Population
Fund

GPC Global Protection Cluster

GSP Global Strategic Priority (for
UNHCR)
HALEP High Alert List for
Emergency Preparedness
HIV and AIDS Human
Immunodeficiency Virus and
Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome

LGBTI Lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender and intersex
MERCOSUR Mercado Común del
Sur (Common Market of the South)
MHPSS Mental health and
psychosocial support
MSB Swedish Civil Contingencies
Agency
NCA North of Central America
NFIs Non-food items

OCHA Office for the Coordination
of Humanitarian Affairs (UN)

DFID Department for International
Development (United Kingdom)

HRWG Human Rights Working
Group (UNDG)

OECD Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development

DRC the Democratic Republic of
the Congo

IASC Inter-Agency Standing
Committee

EAC East African Community

ICGLR International Conference
of the Great Lakes Region

OHCHR Office of the High
Commissioner for Human Rights
(UN)

ICT Information and
communications technology

UNVs United Nations Volunteers
UNODC United Nations Office
on Drugs and Crime
UNPOL United Nations police
UPR Universal Periodic Review
(by the Human Rights Council)
WASH Water, sanitation and
hygiene
WFP World Food Programme
WHO World Health Organization

NGO Non-governmental
organization

HRP Humanitarian Response Plan

OSCE Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe
PARR Priority area of return and
reintegration

ECHO Directorate-General for
European Civil Protection and
Humanitarian Aid Operations

IDA International Development
Association (World Bank)

ECOSOC Economic and Social
Council (UN)

IDMC Internal Displacement
Monitoring Centre

ECOWAS Economic Community
of West African States

IDP Internally displaced person

RAHA Refugee-affected and
hosting areas

ERC Emergency Relief Coordinator
(UN)

IFRC International Federation
of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies

RBM Results-based management
(for UNHCR)

ERCM Emerging resettlement
countries joint support mechanism

IGAD Intergovernmental Authority
on Development

ETM Emergency transit
mechanism

ILO International Labour
Organization

242 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

SEA Sexual exploitation and abuse

SGBV Sexual and gender-based
violence

NRC Norwegian Refugee Council

ECA Economic Commission
for Africa (UN)

UNICEF United Nations
Children’s Fund

JICA Japan International
Cooperation Agency

HLS High-level segment on
statelessness

DAFI German Albert Einstein
Academic Scholarship Programme
for Refugees

UNCTAD United Nations
Conference on Trade
and Development

GCR Global Compact on Refugees

GSC Global Shelter Cluster

CRIs Core relief items

SDG Sustainable Development
Goal(s)

SENS Standardized expanded
nutrition survey (UNHCR)

CCCM Camp coordination and
camp management (cluster)

COP 25 25 United Nations
Climate Change Conference

UN-Habitat United Nations Human
Settlements Programme

IYCF Infant and young child
feeding

GAM Global acute malnutrition

GRF Global Refugee Forum

th

UNCDF United Nations Capital
Development Fund

UNDAF United Nations
Development Assistance
Framework

CAR the Central African Republic

CERF Central Emergency
Response Fund

IUCN International Union for
Conservation of Nature

SDC Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation

PRIMES UNHCR’s digital
population registration and identity
management ecosystem

RHU Refugee housing unit (for
UNHCR)
RRP Refugee Response Plan
RSD Refugee status determination
U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9 243

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

CREDITS
UNHCR wishes to acknowledge the contributions of all staff and consultants at Headquarters
and in the field who have participated in the preparation of the narrative, financial and graphic
components of this document.
Concept design: UNHCR
Layout design, production and printing: Printing section, Production and support service,
United Nations Office – Geneva (2004860E).
The maps in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion on the part of
UNHCR concerning the legal status of any country or territory or area, of its authorities,
or the delimitation of frontiers or boundaries.
Data in this report are drawn from the most recent statistics available to UNHCR, and from
other United Nations agencies. For any corrigenda found subsequent to printing, please visit
the Publications page on Global Focus website (http://reporting.unhcr.org/publications).
All amounts are in US dollars unless otherwise specified.
UNHCR
PO BOX 2500
1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
Tel: 0041 22 739 81 35
Email: HQGARS@unhcr.org
http://reporting.unhcr.org and www.unhcr.org
Twitter@UNHCRgov | Twitter@refugees | Facebook | Instagram
Cover photo:
A mother takes care of her baby in her hammock in Pintolandia refugee camp, Brazil.
© UNHCR/Vincent Tremeau

244 U N H C R G LO B A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 9

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

reporting.unhcr.org
www.unhcr.org

Published by UNHCR
PO Box 2500
1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
For information and inquiries
please contact:
DRRM
hqfr00@unhcr.org
HQGARS@unhcr.org
Twitter@UNHCRgov | Twitter@refugees
Facebook | Instagram

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

