GLOBAL REPORT
2017

F I N A N C I A L

|

O P E R A T I O N A L

|

S T A T I S T I C A L

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

GLOBAL
REPORT
2017

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

CONTENTS

CONTENTS

The Global Report presents the work carried out by UNHCR in 2017 to protect and improve the lives of tens of
millions of forcibly displaced people: refugees, internally displaced people, returnees, stateless persons and
others of concern. It highlights the year’s achievements, as well as challenges faced by the Office and its partners,
in attempting to respond to multiple life-threatening crises and ever-growing humanitarian needs.

OVERVIEW
OF 2017

REGIONAL
SUMMARIES

6

THEMATIC
CHAPTERS

56

118

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S

152 	 Safeguarding
fundamental rights

2	
	

UNHCR IN 2017
UNHCR’s mission with key
facts and figures

6	

Foreword by the High
Commissioner

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

14	
	

Expanding partnerships
UNHCR’s evolving approach
to strengthen and diversify
partnerships to help deliver
on its mandate

28	 Global Strategic Priorities
	
Priority areas of concern
for UNHCR in 2017 and a
summary of progress

The Special Envoy’s message

184	 Emergency preparedness
and response

211	 Comprehensive solutions
(voluntary repatriation, local
integration, resettlement,
complementary pathways to
protection and solutions)

158 	 Addressing and responding
to mixed movements, central
Mediterranean route

172	 Ending statelessness

191	 Preventing, mitigating and
responding to sexual and
gender-based violence
194	 Expanding cash-based
interventions

60 	 Africa

221	 Improve access to quality
education
227	 Economic inclusion and
livelihoods
232	 Access to energy and healthy
environment

80 	 The Americas
94 	 Asia and the Pacific
110 	 Europe
126 	 Middle East and North Africa

ANNEXES

176	 Engaging in situations
of internal displacement
180	 Engaging in climate change
and disaster displacement

32 	 Funding UNHCR’s
programmes

12	

208 	Building better futures

154	 Strengthening national
systems (asylum law,
refugee status determination,
alternative to detention)

164	 Understanding the needs of
people of concern (identity
management and registration,
identifying the needs of
people of concern, promoting
gender equality)

OVERVIEW OF 2017

182 	 Responding with
lifesaving support

198	 Meeting basic needs and
essential services (shelter and
settlement, public health, food
security and nutrition, WASH)

58	 Map of populations of
concern to UNHCR as of
December 2017

236	 Member States of UNHCR’s
Executive Committee and
Parties to the Refugee and
Statelessness Conventions
238	 Glossary of technical terms
used throughout the book
244	Acronyms

142 	 Operational support and
management

Global Focus website audience in 2017

The Global Focus website–http://reporting.unhcr.org–is UNHCR’s main
operational reporting platform for donors. Regularly updated, it complements
and augments information in the Global Report with greater detail on
UNHCR operations, data on key operational themes and objectives,
and in-depth information on UNHCR’s budgets, funding and expenditure.

2 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

125,500

47%

38,000

countries (+99%)

top 10 donor

per month (+65%)

users from 195

visits from the

countries to UNHCR

page views

9,200

documents
downloaded

per month (+170%)

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 3

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

JANUARY
Developing countries hosted 84 per cent of the world’s refugees under UNHCR’s mandate. The least developed countries provided asylum to more than
4.2 million refugees or about 26 per cent of the global total.

UNHCR IN 2017

70

60

50

40

30

20

10

0

MISSION

The High Commissioner for Refugees is mandated by
the United Nations to lead and coordinate international
action for the worldwide protection of refugees and the
resolution of refugee problems. To date (December 2017),
148 States are parties to the 1951 Convention relating to
the Status of Refugees and/or to its 1967 Protocol.
UNHCR’s primary purpose is to safeguard the rights
and well-being of refugees. In its efforts to achieve this
objective, the Office strives to ensure that everyone can
exercise the right to seek asylum and find safe refuge in
another State, and to return home voluntarily. By assisting
refugees to return to their own country or to settle
permanently in another country, UNHCR also seeks
lasting solutions to their plight.
UNHCR’s Executive Committee (101 member States as
of October 2017) and the UN General Assembly have
authorized involvement with other groups. These include
former refugees who have returned to their homeland;
internally displaced people; and persons who are

stateless or whose nationality is disputed. To date
(December 2017), 89 States are parties to the 1954
Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons
and 70 to the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of
Statelessness.

67.7M

36.6M

17.2M

3.2M

People of concern to UNHCR worldwide

IDPs protected and
assisted by UNHCR

Refugees, including
12.3 million assisted
by UNHCR

Stateless persons,
with 60,800 acquiring
or confirming
nationality in 2016

During 2016, UNHCR made 162,500 resettlement
submissions and some 125,600 refugees departed for
resettlement.

The Office seeks to reduce situations of forced
displacement by encouraging States and other institutions
to create conditions which are conducive to the protection
of human rights and the peaceful resolution of disputes.
In all of its activities, it pays particular attention to the
needs of children and seeks to promote the equal rights
of women and girls.
The Office carries out its work in collaboration with many
partners, including governments, regional organizations,
and international and non-governmental organizations.
It is committed to the principle of participation, believing
that refugees and others who benefit from the Office’s
activities should be consulted over decisions which affect
their lives.

552,230 returned refugees,
including 500,200 assisted
by UNHCR

2017

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
INCREASED BY 5.4%
UNHCR needed $7.9 billion to respond
The funding gap was 43%
TOP 10 REFUGEE-HOSTING COUNTRIES

UNHCR EXPENDITURE

TOP 10 DONORS

31%

$4.1 billion

$3.9 billion

Of the world’s refugees are hosted
in three countries

Total expenditure

Voluntary contributions
$400 million from the private sector

GLOBAL PRESENCE
UNHCR IS PRESENT IN 130 COUNTRIES WITH 478 LOCATIONS

15,273

11,423

3,850

GLOBAL WORKFORCE

STAFF MEMBERS

AFFILIATE WORKFORCE MEMBERS*

STAFF MEMBERS
International

National

Pakistan

Uganda

Lebanon

Iran (Islamic Rep. of)

Germany

Bangladesh
Jordan

Sudan
All other countries

Ethiopia

Pillar 1 Refugees 83%

USA

Germany

European Union

Pillar 2 Stateless 1%

Japan

UK

Sweden

Pillar 3 Returnees 2%

Norway

Canada

Pillar 4 IDPs 14%

Netherlands

Private donors
in Spain

12%

88%

28%

Turkey

Field

HQ
Staff by region

43% Africa

DECEMBER
The vast majority of refugees—some 85%—under UNHCR’s mandate remain in low and middle-income countries, close to conflict.

21% Middle East and
North Africa

72%

Global

%
61

%
39

12% Headquarters

Field

64

36

11% Asia & Pacific

HQ

41

59

9%

Europe

4%

Americas

* UNVs, individual contractors and consultants hired through UNOPS or directly, deployees, secondees, and interns, of whom 47% are male and 53% female
4 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

70

71.4M

60

50

People of concern to UNHCR worldwide
Over half of the world’s refugees came from three countries: the Syrian Arab
Republic, Afghanistan and South Sudan. Bangladesh kept its borders open
to nearly 655,500 refugees fleeing violence in Myanmar. More than
1.2 million refugees were in need of resettlement. In 2017, some 75,200 resettlement
places were made available and some 65,100 refugees departed to third
resettlement countries.

40

30

20

10

667,380 returned refugees,
including 518,600 assisted
by UNHCR

0

IDPs protected and
assisted by UNHCR

Refugees, including
11.9 million assisted by UNHCR

Stateless persons,
with 56,500 acquiring
or confirming nationality
in 2017

39.1M

19.9M

3.9M

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 5

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | FOREWORD BY HIGH COMMISSIONER FILIPPO GRANDI

A world
in turmoil

As of the end of 2017, there were some
71.4 million people of concern to UNHCR
around the world—asylum-seekers,
refugees, returnees, the internally displaced
and stateless. Millions were newly displaced
during the year, fleeing war, violence and
persecution in countries including the
Central African Republic, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC), Iraq, Myanmar,
South Sudan and the Syrian Arab Republic
(Syria). As a result, UNHCR was called on to
address a succession of new or recurring
or deepening displacement crises, some
shifting in new and complicated directions.
Torn from their homes and propelled across
borders, there could be no illusion that
they were moving voluntarily, in search
of a better life. Fleeing for their lives,
their movement was often chaotic and
improvised, their assets left behind. Almost
two thirds remained internally displaced
within their own countries, often unable to
reach safety abroad as borders closed and
restrictive admissions policies prevailed. At
the same time, protracted crises remained
entrenched. Refugees fled Afghanistan
almost 40 years ago, but some two million
are still hosted in the Islamic Republics
of Iran and Pakistan, and hundreds of
thousands more across the world.

©UNHCR/Andrew McConnell

6 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Marjan, 60, and her granddaughter Jannat Ara, 7, (in
red) stand among other Rohingya refugees to receive
aid at Kutupalong camp in Bangladesh. They fled their
home in Myanmar two months ago with four other
family members.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 7

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

As a result, UNHCR was called upon to
respond, together with States, to a series
of new and recurring emergencies in the
course of 2017. Standby capacities including
emergency funding mechanisms, personnel
deployments, airlifts of relief items, and
standby partnerships were activated
through UNHCR emergency declarations for
displacement related to crises in the DRC,
Libya and Myanmar. Emergency capacities
were maintained at regional and country
level to respond to new displacement and
returns in relation to Iraq, South Sudan,
Syria, Yemen and elsewhere.
Efforts to address complex mixed
movements, by trying to secure protection
and solutions for refugees moving along
dangerous routes such as through
sub-Saharan Africa to the central
Mediterranean and beyond, and across
northern Central America, were also a
growing priority, seeing UNHCR deepen
its partnerships with the International
Organization for Migration and others.
Growing weaknesses in international
cooperation and in the ability of political
leaders to prevent, mitigate, and resolve
conflict remained prominent. Among the
millions of people uprooted, just a small
number were able to return home following
effective international conflict resolution or
progress towards stability. Those refugees
or IDPs who did return often did so under
less than ideal circumstances, returning
to situations of hardship, destruction and
ongoing risk. At the same time, weaknesses
in international cooperation and solidarity
undermined the global response to refugee
flows, and state-by-state responses often
prevailed amidst an ongoing politicization of
the refugee issue at domestic, regional and
international levels.
As this bleak series of events unfolded,
host countries and communities continued
to extend protection and assistance,
8 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OVERVIEW | F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

often despite significant pressure on their
infrastructure and services, and despite
waning international support. The majority
of countries next to conflict zones kept their
borders open and continued to receive
refugees in a very practical expression of
their commitment to international protection
standards and humanitarian values.
Further afield, the picture was more mixed.
In many parts of the world, genuine public
concerns related to security, the economy,
and identity have been distorted, and
misperceptions of the nature, composition
and impact of refugee flows have been
fueled by irresponsible politicians. Refugee
rights have been eroded and protection
undermined—sometimes by States that
have traditionally been champions of
refugee protection.

An emerging model for change
And yet, despite—or perhaps because
of—these many challenges, a powerful
momentum emerged around the
principles and approaches set out in
the Comprehensive Refugee Response
Framework (CRRF), adopted as part of the
New York Declaration for Refugees and
Migrants. Now being applied in 13 countries
and in two regional models, and described
in more detail in this Global Report, it is
driving more sustained attention to the role
of host countries and communities, with
the international community increasingly
recognizing the need to do more to support
them. The global compact on refugees,
to be adopted by the General Assembly
later in 2018, will underpin the CRRF with a
programme of action to steer its application.
Notable progress has already been made
through the application of the CRRF. The
policy and legislative reforms, inclusive
and open practices, and measures to
expand refugee access to national health
and education systems are described in

more detail particularly in the chapter on
Expanding partnerships. With an emphasis
on building resilience and self-reliance, by
connecting refugees to opportunities and
fostering their inclusion in host societies
and economies, the new comprehensive
response model is driving real change. The
number of host countries adopting policies
and practices consistent with the vision of
the New York Declaration is lengthening—
and this generosity and openness must be
supported.
UNHCR also made significant strides
in establishing closer links between
humanitarian and development partners
and other bilateral agencies, aimed at
supporting host countries and communities
and strengthening the resilience of refugees,
and in making progress on solutions, even in
the absence of wider progress in resolving
conflicts. These efforts are also aligned
with the reforms to the UN development
system and peace and security architecture
currently under way under the leadership of
the Secretary-General.
The strong leadership of the World Bank
continued to play a key role in driving
change in 2017—in particular, through the
IDA18 refugee sub-window for low-income
countries and the Global Concessional
Financing Facility for middle-income
countries. A growing list of bilateral and
multilateral institutions have also made
important advances. The European Union’s
Directorate-General for International
Cooperation and Development, for example,
is making considerable investments to
support the CRRF roll-out in the Horn of
Africa and Central America, and to address
forced displacement in Asia. Other bilateral
development agencies, including those of
Denmark, Germany, Japan, the Republic
of Korea and the United Kingdom, are also
already engaged.

As this Global Report describes, new ways
of using resources to target the longer-term
needs of refugees and hosts became more
prominent in 2017, in relation to education,
employment, and the environment. Working
with a much broader range of actors than
in the past, important steps were taken
related to refugees’ financial inclusion and
access to jobs. These steps included policy
changes, new financing mechanisms, and
the increasing engagement of a wide range
of NGOs, civil society entities, municipalities,
faith organizations, and the involvement of
the private sector.
UNHCR is working closely with development
partners and governments to accelerate
the application of the instruments and
resources made available, but the impact
of the comprehensive response model will
take time to be felt. And even as tangible
results begin to emerge, providing proof that
this new approach can make a difference,
humanitarian action will continue to be a
central aspect of the response to forced
displacement—particularly in the early
stages of new crises.
Certain aspects of the model require greater
investments and action if they are to be
fully realized. The number of resettlement
places fell significantly in 2017, to around
75,200—just 54 per cent of 2016 levels.
Yet, resettlement remains an important
solution, both for the people concerned
and as a concrete expression of
burden-and responsibility-sharing. A number
of countries are now working to expand
their resettlement programmes, and to
expand the pool of resettlement States by
providing support to emerging resettlement
countries. These efforts must be supported.
The scarcity of solutions in the context of
today’s proliferating conflicts is a matter
of deep concern. The strong focus on
solutions, notably voluntary repatriation, in
the two regional applications of the CRRF
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 9

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

that have emerged—both in the Somalia
context in the Horn of Africa, and in the
Comprehensive Refugee Protection and
Solutions Framework in the Americas—is
therefore extremely welcome. The ongoing
work to develop and implement the global
compact on refugees will give further space
for these efforts.
The #IBelong Campaign to End Statelessness
remained a corporate priority in 2017.
Significant progress in reducing
statelessness took place in countries
including the Philippines, the Russian
Federation, Tajikistan and Thailand, and

OVERVIEW | F O R E W O R D BY H I G H C O M M I S S I O N E R F I L I P P O G R A N D I

legislative and policy reforms were also
adopted in a number of States. Burkina
Faso and Luxembourg both acceded to
the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of
Statelessness. This work has been given
additional momentum by the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), and in particular
SDG 5, which calls for the elimination of
discrimination against women and girls
everywhere, and SDG 16.9, which calls
for legal identity for all, including birth
registration. 

the management and coordination of our
engagement with new and traditional
partners, and other measures.

the first time ever in an important expression
of confidence in UNHCR and the course that
we are pursuing.

We made important investments in
strengthening the integrity of our operations,
including through reforms to our oversight
systems, and in pursuing our zero tolerance
policy on sexual exploitation and abuse
and sexual harassment. We developed
“Risk Management 2.0”—an ambitious,
new approach to managing risk, unearthing
root causes of corruption and fraud, and
improving programme delivery which is now
being rolled out in key operations.

We also, increasingly, noted the engagement
of the private sector, including corporations,
philanthropists and foundations—not just as
donors but as active contributors that can
bring important experience to bear including
in terms of technology, employment, skills
training, renewable energy and other areas.
It is also particularly relevant to single out
the interest and involvement of cities and
mayors, who are often on the frontline of
receiving refugees, but also integrating
them, especially in industrialized countries.
For instance, sport institutions such as the
International Olympic Committee also have
an important role helping to address refugee
inclusion, giving hope and bridging gaps
between communities.

© U N HCR /G eor gi na G oodw i n

We undertook a significant reform of our
human resources systems and, in August 2017,
issued a new recruitment and assignments
policy aimed at ensuring a flexible,
highly-qualified workforce with the right
profile, skills and expertise, with full attention
to inclusion, diversity and gender equity.
We made a first set of investments to step up
our capacity in relation to data on refugees
and host communities, and reached an
agreement on a new UNHCR-World Bank
joint data centre, which will also work on
data on statelessness.

UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi takes selfies with young Somali refugees who have been
awarded scholarships by the World University Service of Canada at Dadaab camp, Kenya.

UNHCR: looking ahead
In January 2017, we issued UNHCR’s
Strategic Directions, setting out clear
orientations for our work for the period
until 2021, against the evolving context of
deepening displacement crises and the
important opportunities emerging in the
lead up to the global compact and beyond.
These include the core directions of protect,
respond, include, empower and solve.
In the course of 2017, we took a number of
steps to steer critical changes to enable us to
10 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

pursue these directions in a more effective,
efficient, agile and accountable manner.
These reform initiatives included an
independent review of the design, structure
and processes of our Headquarters,
which made a compelling case for change
to ensure that we remain a dynamic
and field-oriented organization. Its
recommendations are being taken forward
by a change team and have already resulted
in the establishment of a new Division
for Resilience and Solutions, changes to

We also worked to improve our engagement
with IDPs, and began the redesign of
our results-based management system,
integrating it with a new Multi-Year,
Multi-Partner approach.

Mobilizing resources and
diversifying support
With growing needs, we saw encouragement
from the solid level of funding that we were
able to maintain in 2017, reaching over
$3.9 billion in fresh contributions, just under
what we received in 2016, albeit against a
larger budget. The commitments made at
our 2018 pledging conference in Geneva
in December 2017, including multi-year
commitments, came close to $1 billion for

Rising to the challenge
The comprehensive response model, and
the global compact to come, are concrete,
workable instruments of multilateralism in
action, rooted in practical engagement that
can be a rallying point for refugee protection
and solutions, founded on the principles
and standards of the international refugee
regime. To work, they need resources,
including funding, technical expertise, and
political support.
Throughout 2017, there was a resolute
and growing body of support for the new
model, from a range of States with different
capacities and characteristics, and from
traditional and new donors. Sustaining and
intensifying that support through 2018 and
beyond will be critical, to translate the high
level political commitments of the New York
Declaration into real change in the lives of
refugees and displaced people around the
world.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 11

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | S P E C I A L E N VOY

OVERVIEW | S P E C I A L E N VOY

This year marked a special moment in
UNHCR’s relationship with its Special
Envoy, Angelina Jolie. Renewing her
contract as Special Envoy during a visit to
UNHCR Headquarters after 17 years with
the Agency, she reaffirmed her commitment
to refugees worldwide, and spoke of how
proud she is to be with UNHCR. Referring to
the many challenges facing the Office and
the broader humanitarian community, she
said to her UNHCR colleagues, “I am with
you, not just for my contract, I am with you
for life. You can’t walk away once you’ve
joined UNHCR.”
While in Geneva, she delivered the
annual lecture for the Sergio Vieira de
Mello foundation. In her speech, “In
Defence of Internationalism”, she called on
governments to renew their commitment
to diplomacy and to the UN, saying that
“there is no shortcut to peace and security,
and no substitute for the long, painstaking

© UNHCR/Mark Henley

The Special Envoy
effort to end conflicts, expand human
rights and strengthen the rule of law.”
She warned of the dangers of “narrow
nationalism masquerading as patriotism,”
and urged citizens to “keep alive the
flame of internationalism,” adding that “a
world in which we turn our back on our
global responsibilities will be a world that
produces greater insecurity, violence and
danger for us and for our children.”
She also tackled issues of populism,
poverty and racism in her address, urging
the audience to stay true to the ideals and
purposes of the United Nations: “I hope
all of us can determine that we shall be a
generation that renews its commitment to
unite our strength to maintain international
peace and security and to promote social
progress and better standards of life in
larger freedom.” The Special Envoy called
on individuals to play their part globally, to
do good in their community and continue

UNHCR Special Envoy Angelina Jolie cuts a cake with young refugee women at the RefuSHE empowerment project in Nairobi, June 2017.

the progress started by Mr Vieira de Mello
and other UN workers: “To do even a little
of his good, to apply ourselves to the work
he left unfinished, in whatever way we can,
is a worthy task for any one of us.”

© UNHCR/Mark Henley

It is in this spirit that the Special Envoy
commemorated 2017 World Refugee Day
in Kenya visiting with adolescent refugee
girls in Nairobi who reside in a shelter run
by RefuSHE, an NGO filling a crucial gap in
care for girls and young women.

UNHCR’s Special Envoy Angelina Jolie and UN High Commissioner for
Refugees Filippo Grandi meet in Geneva to sign Jolie’s new contract.

12 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The girls fled extreme violence or
persecution in Burundi, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Somalia,
and South Sudan. Almost all of them had
suffered sexual and gender-based violence.
With the option of resettlement scarce,
RefuSHE focuses on helping refugees fully
integrate within the Kenyan community. It
was the Special Envoy’s third visit to Kenya,
home to hundreds of thousands of refugees
from neighbouring countries.

“Over half of all refugees and displaced people
worldwide are women and children.
How we treat them is a measure of our humanity as nations.”
—Angelina Jolie, UNHCR Special Envoy

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 13

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | S P E C I A L E N VOY

OVERVIEW | S P E C I A L E N VOY

Expanding
partnerships

© UNHCR/ Andrew McConnell

Young Rohingya refugees look out over Palong Khali refugee camp,
a sprawling site located on a hilly area near the Myanmar border in
south-east Bangladesh.

Since its creation in the 1950s, UNHCR
has helped millions of people of concern—
refugees, returnees, internally displaced
people, and stateless persons—to rebuild
their lives by safeguarding their rights and
providing protection, lifesaving assistance
and seeking solutions. None of this has been
possible without partners, and without a
strong and enduring sense of partnership.
As of the end of 2017, there were
71.4 million people of concern to UNHCR
worldwide, more than half of whom were
women and children. All had fled armed

14 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

conflict, violence, insecurity, criminality,
persecution, and human rights abuses. The
vast majority of them (85 per cent) were in
low- and middle-income countries, hosted
or displaced in States and in communities
that are themselves dealing with a range of
social, political and economic challenges.
The multiplicity and gravity of crises around
the world, increased human mobility, the
growing effects of climate change, and
complex, irregular movements have evolved
the way UNHCR works to protect.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 15

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

UNHCR’s Strategic Directions, which
the High Commissioner issued in
January 2017, are aligned with the
2030 Sustainable Development Agenda, the
Secretary-General’s UN reform process, and
the New York Declaration for Refugees and
Migrants and its Annex 1, the Comprehensive
Refugee Response Framework (CRRF).
The Strategic Directions have five core
elements—protect, respond, include,
empower and solve—which will guide the
Office’s work in the coming years. This
work will include engaging across the
entire spectrum of forced displacement
and providing practical, concrete support
to States to secure protection and solutions
for refugees, IDPs and stateless persons
through strong and diverse partnerships.

Addressing the protection needs of
refugees and other displaced people and
upholding their rights is critical to laying
the foundations for greater stability and
solutions, both for people of concern and for
the communities hosting them. Throughout
2017, UNHCR committed to strengthening
partnerships to support host countries and
their communities, including with States as
the principal actors providing protection and
solutions to displacement and statelessness.
The Office also committed to evolving
the ways in which it protects all people
of concern. This chapter summarizes and
analyses those aspects, and serves as a
guide to the in-depth regional and thematic
chapters of this Global Report.

16 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

Supporting host countries
and their communities
In line with the CRRF, partnerships are
of pivotal importance to all aspects of
UNHCR’s work: from raising awareness
of refugee problems, to preserving the
character of asylum, to improving the
delivery of humanitarian assistance, and to
making life in long-term asylum viable and
voluntary repatriation possible. Partnerships
are also critical in strengthening the
resilience capacity of host communities,
refugees, other displaced people and
returnees, and in finding solutions.
As the mandated organization for refugee
protection, assistance and response,
UNHCR works with States to find
sustainable solutions—including from the
outset of emergencies. Beyond States, the
Office also worked with a broad range of
actors from the humanitarian, development
and private sector to tackle some of the
entrenched issues people of concern face,
such as access to work and employment
opportunities, inclusion in public planning,
administration and justice, and housing-land
and property rights.
While the involvement of diverse actors
is critical in effectively assisting people of
concern, it is ultimately States that deliver
sustainable solutions to displacement.
Unfortunately, in 2017, large-scale
displacement continued to demonstrate
the need for strengthened international
cooperation. Almost no situations of
large-scale displacement have been
brought to definitive conclusion by political
solutions in the current decade, and
between 2011 and 2017 the average number
of refugees returning home globally each
year was just short of 431,000.

Few long-term political solutions for the
drivers of displacement mean new outflows—
mostly falling disproportionally on the
countries and the communities neighbouring
conflict zones—and few durable solutions
for the displaced and, indirectly, for their
hosts. Although the hosting countries have
largely kept their borders open to those
fleeing, they have been left to manage the
social, economic, and sometimes political
implications of a large-scale refugee
presence, alongside the other consequences
of nearby conflict, without adequate
resources—especially development aid not
fully adapted to the situation.
Despite current high levels of displacement
and a lack of political solutions, there was
an important countervailing trend in 2017:
a growing recognition grounded in values,
but also in realism, that refugee flows
would continue as long as conflicts were
not solved, and that in hosting refugees
the countries neighbouring those in crisis
contribute to regional stability. However,
these efforts can only be sustained through
international support that includes, but also
extends beyond, humanitarian funding.
The engagement of actors beyond those
associated with the traditional humanitarian
sphere is critical to mobilizing an effective
response and pursuing solutions to
displacement and statelessness today.
States, development actors, the private
sector, financial institutions, NGOs,
academics, diasporas and civil society
can all contribute to refugee responses by
driving policy, influencing public opinion,
or providing concrete support. The Office
actively pursued these relationships in 2017,
acknowledging they are foundational for
sustainable and comprehensive responses.
Because development projects for refugees

and host communities are long-term
investments, they should be nurtured whilst
also responding to the more immediate
needs of people of concern are addressed.
Within the framework provided by the
New York Declaration, UNHCR worked
with governments and partners to deliver
comprehensive responses for refugees and
host communities. The Office championed
collaborative and coordinated approaches
to supporting refugees through its updated
Policy on Emergency Response—which
stresses the importance of partnerships—
and in its response to large-scale
emergencies, which is based on the
Refugee Coordination Model (RCM). The
Office equally strengthened coordination in
refugee situations and enhanced its work
with development actors to support early
responses (see the thematic chapter on
Responding with lifesaving support).
UNHCR helped ensure complementary
efforts in assisting people of concern by
working effectively with humanitarian,
development and other actors, including
from the very beginning of emergencies.
For example, UNHCR concluded a number
of emergency response agreements
with NGOs. The Office also supported
the coordinated efforts of various actors
through its leadership in the cluster system
both at the national and global level, and
nationally through the various refugee,
humanitarian or development plans.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 17

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

Applying the Comprehensive
Refugee Response Framework

UNHCR
made specific
commitments
against five of the
Grand Bargain’s
ten work streams,
and committed
to active
participation
across all of
them. For more
information on
its engagement,
please refer
to the UNHCR
Grand Bargain
self-report.

The majority of UNHCR’s programmes in
2017 continued to be implemented by local,
national and international NGOs across
UNHCR’s 130 country operations worldwide.
In line with its Grand Bargain commitments,
UNHCR focused on engaging local and
national partners and aimed to direct
25 per cent of programme funding to
support the work of national partners—
including national government institutions
involved in refugee work—by 2020.
For example, 21 per cent of the $1.5 billion
disbursed to over 1,000 partners in 2017
was allocated to local and national partners
for programmes providing protection and
solutions to refugees and other people of
concern. In addition, the Office continued
to strengthen collaboration with local NGO
partners in the fields of communications,
capacity-building, joint planning, enhanced
use of resources, operational delivery and
the prevention of fraud and corruption.

18 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The adoption by all United Nations Member
States of the September 2016 New York
Declaration demonstrated the collective
political will to reshape and reinforce
international engagement in refugee crises.
It also reaffirmed the fundamental principles
and values on which the refugee protection
regime rests. The New York Declaration
recognized the profound contribution
of host countries and communities and
the contribution refugees can make to
host communities and countries with the
right policies and support. The New York
Declaration proposed a more inclusive
model to refugee responses, one that
encompasses a broad range of entities,
such as development actors, civil society,
international and regional peace and security
actors and donors, the private sector and
refugees themselves.

and sub-regions were applying significant
elements in line with the CRRF through
their refugee policies and frameworks.
The CRRF places equal emphasis on four
key objectives and UNHCR is committed
to working with partners to pursue each
of them:
•	 Easing pressure on hosting countries.
•	 Enhancing refugee self-reliance.
•	 Expanding opportunities for resettlement

in third countries as well as other
complementary pathways.
•	 Supporting conditions in countries of

origin that enable voluntary return.

A key element of the New York Declaration
was the outlining of an evolutionary approach
to addressing refugee situations knows as
the CRRF. The comprehensive response
model—which draws heavily on approaches
developed in the Middle East and North
Africa region in responding to the Syrian
refugee crisis, and on experiences in other
regions over the decades—is generating
a sea-change in international engagement
with refugees and host communities. The
Declaration brings together tried and tested
solutions for improved refugee protection
under a single framework.

While some results in the development
sphere will take time to fully come to
fruition, 2017 already saw some substantial
advances. The CRRF was rolled out in
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia, Uganda,
the United Republic of Tanzania,
and Zambia in Africa, and Belize,
Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico,
and Panama in the Americas. It also
included two regional approaches: the
situation facing Somali refugees across
the East and the Horn of Africa, and in
the North of Central America. In each
of these countries or regions, the CRRF
demonstrated how governments, UNHCR
and partners are committed to pursuing
solutions from the outset of a refugee
emergency, including by working with
national and local authorities—which are
among the first responders to a refugee
influx—and by promoting the inclusion of
refugees in national systems.

As of end of 2017, the CRRF was being
applied in 13 countries and across two
regions, and will progressively be rolled out
in other large-scale refugee situations. In
parallel to the roll-out of the CRRF in these
13 countries, a number of other refugee
hosting countries across different regions

To help refugees’ access to services of
host communities, several countries rolling
out the CRRF began adopting new policies
enabling refugees to benefit from essential
social and other services on a par with
nationals. This was the case in Djibouti
where, in December 2017, refugees were

granted freedom of movement, access
to legal employment, healthcare and
education. In 2017, Ethiopia began fulfilling
its pledge to increase the enrolment of
refugee children in school alongside
nationals. In line with a government
commitment, over 52,700 additional
refugee children were enrolled in Ethiopia
as of end of 2017. Under a new refugee bill,
currently under development in Ethiopia,
tens of thousands of refugees would be
able to qualify for work permits, allowing
them to make a living and contribute to the
local economy. Also in Ethiopia, a revision
of government policy on encampment
made in 2017 holds potential in allowing
some 75,000 refugees of all nationalities
to move freely to towns and cities in the
future where they can undertake trade and
commerce and interact with locals.

New refugee
legislation
policies that
support refugee
self-reliance and
promote inclusion
have been or
will shortly
be adopted
in a number
of countries,
including Djibouti
and Ethiopia.

The application of the CRRF also helped
to foster regional collaboration (for more
details please see the regional summaries for
Africa and the Americas). In Africa, Member
States of the Intergovernmental Authority
on Development (IGAD) adopted the
Nairobi Declaration on “Durable solutions
for Somali refugees and reintegration of
returnees in Somalia” in March 2017. In
September 2017, these Member States
adopted a roadmap and results framework
to implement the Declaration. The countries
involved in this process—Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Kenya, Somalia and Uganda—further
delivered on the Nairobi Declaration’s
commitments by convening the first ever
regional IGAD conference on education in
Djibouti in December 2017. At this meeting,
Member States committed to harmonizing
education standards for refugees and host
communities, and to integrate education
for refugees and returnees into national
development plans by 2020.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 19

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

© UNHCR/Jean-Marc Ferré

In October 2017, Belize, Costa Rica,
Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico and Panama
adopted the Comprehensive Refugee
Protection and Solutions Framework (known
as MIRPS—Marco Integral Regional para
la Protección y Soluciones), the regional
iteration of the CRRF. In doing so, they
committed to collective action to strengthen
protection of people on the move and to
engage development and local actors
in prevention, assistance and solutions.
Prior to the adoption of this instrument,
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Panama and Mexico developed
national action plans that, together with
commitments from donors and cooperating
states, formed the MIRPS.

We are the future and the future is now
Foni, a refugee from South Sudan who graduated with first
class honours from a university in Kenya, is among more than a
dozen youth delegates from around the world who brought their
experience of conflict and displacement to a high-level meeting
in Geneva devoted to obtaining a new global response to record
levels of displacement.

Foni Joyce Vuni, 25, a South Sudanese refugee living
in Kenya, participated as a youth delegate at the High
Commissioner’s Dialogue on Protection Challenges.
She is currently studying a bachelor’s degree in Mass
Communication and is president of the Kenya Chapter
of the DAFI students’ association.

A fundamental shift in the
posture of development actors

The roll-out of the CRRF generated
increased support to refugees and their
host communities, achieved to a large
extent through the increased engagement
of key development actors, such as the
World Bank and other large bilateral
development actors such as the European
Commission’s Directorate-General for
International Development Cooperation
(DEVCO) and the Japan International
Cooperation Agency (JICA, on which more
below) which started to scale-up their
activities and their support in CRRF roll-out
countries. The CRRF approach will need
to further align with other key instruments
for development and humanitarian
support such as the SDGs, United Nations
Development Assistance Frameworks

20 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

(UNDAFs) and national development plans
(such as those in Djibouti and Uganda). For
example, the CRRF has helped facilitate
closer collaboration between UNHCR and
UNDP.
To ensure that refugees had a voice in
the processes shaping their lives, UNHCR
and partners conducted consultations on
the CRRF with refugees in six countries in
2017. This included consultations in four
CRRF countries: Ethiopia, Djibouti, Uganda,
and the United Republic of Tanzania.
The perspective of refugee youth was
heard through the Global Youth Advisory
Council, which was created by the High
Commissioner in December 2017 (see
Safeguarding fundamental rights thematic
chapter).

The New York Declaration makes a strong
call for humanitarian and development
efforts to be complementary and mutually
supportive. It supports the inclusion of
refugees, IDPs and stateless persons in
regular development planning with the
support of the international community
where needed, thereby enhancing efforts
towards the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development. In 2017, UNHCR’s search
for durable solutions, including economic
inclusion and greater means of resilience
for people of concern, saw it expand
partnerships with development actors—
which are arguably better equipped to take
on some of these long-term challenges
(see Safeguarding fundamental rights and
Building better futures thematic chapters).
UNHCR continued to enhance partnerships
with key development actors—notably
with UNDP and the World Bank—while
engaging in policy and strategic reflections
on avenues for humanitarian-development
cooperation within the United Nations
Development Group, OECD and the
Inter-Agency Standing Committee.

“When kids come and they don’t get an education, we see
a repeat of the war over and over again, because they don’t
understand the causes of it,” says Foni, 25, who works on a
mentoring programme for young refugees in Kenya.
“We are the future and the future is now.” The way
Foni sees it, children caught up in conflicts will end
up either as peacemakers or as peacebreakers. The
difference is the opportunities they get in exile.

The priority areas identified in the
UNDP-UNHCR joint review includes SDG
implementation as it relates to “leave no
one behind”, enhanced partnerships in
rule of law, human rights, access to justice,
community security and local governance to
better respond to protection priorities and
durable solutions; analysis on protracted
displacement situations and root causes;
targeted livelihoods programming; and
investment in early warning and crisis
preparedness.
In 2017, UNDP and UNHCR initiated joint
programmes in these areas in at least
15 countries, including in Burundi, Ethiopia,
Honduras, Myanmar, Pakistan, Somalia,
Uganda and Zambia, covering refugees,
IDPs, returnees and stateless persons.
Strengthened collaboration under the CRRF
has helped to include people of concern
in national development frameworks and
engage with UNCTs. In addition, UNDP
opened-up its governance and rule-of-law
expert rosters to support analytical work on
issues around state budgeting mechanisms
and State-provided legal aid, and public
administration and justice.

Based on the
findings of a
joint review,
UNDP and
UNHCR issued a
communication
in October 2017
that sets out
the broader
parameters
for future
cooperation.
Together, they
developed a
plan of action
to coordinate
their efforts and
strengthen their
collaboration
at country
level to help
host countries
better respond
to refugee
situations and to
deliver improved
long-term support
and solutions for
refugees.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 21

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

SDG 16 recognizes the rule of law as
fundamental to sustainable and inclusive
development, and that governance and
the rule of law can support or hinder
comprehensive solutions. For these reasons,
in October 2017, UNHCR joined the
Global Alliance on SDG 16 on peaceful
and inclusive society as a co-chair. As a
member of the Secretariat together with
UNDP, UNESCO and UNODC, the Office
guided, advised and advocated for the
inclusion of people of concern in all
SDG 16 Global Alliance work and in the
run-up to events such as the General
Assembly High-Level Political Forums and
Voluntary National Reviews on the SDGs.
UNHCR provided technical support
to ILO during the drafting of an ILO
recommendation on employment and decent

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

work for peace and resilience, which was
adopted in June 2017. The recommendation
provides a guide to the steps needed to
advance dignified work for refugees, and
affirms the contribution of the world of
work to prevention and to reconstruction
after conflict. The ILO’s commitment to this
process, and to collaborating with UNHCR
throughout the two-year review and drafting
process, was an example of the types of
collaboration needed to achieve outcomes
in the interests of people of concern. In
addition, UNHCR partnered with UNCDF
to establish a joint, multi-year facility,
working with financial service providers in
ten countries to expand efforts in financial
inclusion, meaning people of concern’s
access to banking, credit and other basic
financial services (see the Building better
futures thematic chapter).

After fleeing war or persecution, the opportunity to work and
earn a living is one of the best ways for refugees to rebuild
their lives and integrate into their host communities. Refugees
are skilled and resourceful—they have to be to survive. With
the right supports, they can quickly become economically
independent and reclaim their lives.

UNHCR also worked closely with the
Development Assistance Committee of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation

Multi-Year, Multi-Partner strategies: a progressive approach to protection and solutions

A Syrian refugee living in Germany succeeds in
training and in getting a job.

UNHCR’s engagement with the World
Bank continued to evolve throughout 2017.
The complementarity and comparative
advantages of the two organizations were
key factors in driving this relationship
forwards in the past year. For example,
some of the key achievements in 2017
were the launch of a Global Concessional
Financing Facility for middle income
countries (such as Jordan and Lebanon) and
the completion of 11 missions as part of a

22 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In addition, UNHCR strengthened its
collaboration with the African Development
Bank (AfDB), focusing on support to UNHCR
projects in Cameroon, Niger and Zimbabwe.
UNHCR and the AfDB also signed a new
fiduciary principles agreement in December
2017, which provides an overall framework
agreement that will apply to current and
future contributions from AfDB to UNHCR.

and Development (OECD-DAC) to support
its work on forced displacement issues
and to publish a report on addressing
forced displacement through development
planning. This report is aimed at informing
donor strategies to support host countries
through the inclusion of refugees in
development programmes. Other
development agencies, such as DEVCO
and JICA have significantly increased
their financial engagement to support
refugee-hosting countries in particular in
the East and Horn of Africa in 2017. For
instance, DEVCO has played an important in
the regional approach to the Somali refugee
situation by being part of the IGAD Core
Group, while JICA has taken significant
steps to increase its support to refugees
and host communities through an areabased approach in northern Uganda.

© UNHCR/Markel Redondo

Mahmoud learns the insurance
business at Allianz

Mahmoud studied in Damascus, in the Syrian Arab Republic,
before the war. Now living in Germany, he says, “Employment is
very important to integrate refugees”. His goal is to “succeed in
training at Allianz and then get a job here. I really enjoy the work”.

new International Development Association
(IDA) initiative to provide dedicated funding
to low-income refugee hosting countries
(see regional summaries). Together, UNHCR
and the World Bank also agreed to establish
a data centre on forced displacement, and
continued to build understanding of each
other’s respective operating and business
systems.

UNHCR’s Multi-Year, Multi-Partner (MYMP) is a strategic planning approach that applies a longer-term vision to
helping people of concern and their hosts. Strategic objectives are agreed with partners through an inclusive and
consultative process. Strategies run for three to five years, focusing on finding longer-term solutions for people of
concern to UNHCR, putting them at the centre of planning and priority setting in the areas they live, and providing
support to national systems, institutions and civil society as outlined above.
In line with its Grand Bargain commitments and building on the lessons learned from the 2016 MYMP pilots
that ran across six operations, the MYMP approach was applied in 2017 in an additional 16 operations: Algeria,
Brazil, Cameroon, Chad, Colombia, Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Niger, Rwanda,
the Regional Office for Northern Europe, and Ukraine. The 22 MYMP operations are currently translating their
strategies into their 2018–2019 operational plans.
Due to their focus on helping improve long-term planning for solutions and protection in a more concerted effort
with partners, MYMP strategies serve as a vehicle for the application of the CRRF. The lessons learnt from current
MYMP operations as well as the roll-out of the CRRF will inform the future expansion and institutionalization of the
MYMP approach.
In 2017, UNHCR committed to the full institutionalization of the MYMP approach. This commitment aligns with
broader agency efforts to revise UNHCR’s results-based management (RBM) system for 2022.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 23

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

A “whole-of-society” engagement

—New York Declaration, Annex 1, paragraph 2

In the last few years, there has been a
growing global recognition that responses
to global displacement must better meet
the needs of refugees and their host
communities alike. These developments
showcase the growing importance of
a “whole-of-society” engagement in
responding to complex international
issues—something which lies at the
very heart of the CRRF. It is therefore
not surprising that the government-led
structures established in many CRRF
countries brought together local authorities,
humanitarian and development actors, civil
society, refugees, host communities, and
the private sector.
Initiatives such as the Global Partnership for
Education, which is working with UNHCR
to support refugee inclusion in multi-year
national education sector planning, with
international support, and Education
Cannot Wait are injecting new energy
and resources, and mobilizing a much
broader range of actors than in the past.
United Nations agencies and NGO partners
were also increasingly engaged, along
with a wide range of civil society entities,
municipalities and faith organizations.
At a time when the number of people of
concern is rising steadily and the gap in
meeting their needs is growing, UNHCR has
continued to look to the private sector—
individuals, companies, foundations and
philanthropists—for financial support, but
also, increasingly, as a source of innovative
24 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

solutions to refugee challenges within the
framework of the CRRF. Important steps
were taken in relation to financial inclusion
and access to jobs, including through policy
changes, new financing mechanisms and
the involvement of the private sector in
developing jobs compacts in Jordan and
Ethiopia.
Of key importance to UNHCR’s work in 2017
were six National Partners—Australia for
UNHCR, España con ACNUR (Spain), Japan
for UNHCR, Sverige för UNHCR (Sweden),
UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (Germany) and
USA for UNHCR. They were instrumental in
raising funds (see the chapter on Funding
UNHCR’s programmes). With over 1.3 million
committed supporters worldwide and a
network of high profile advocates at both
national and international level, the National
Partners remained an integral and powerful
link between UNHCR and the general public.
The year witnessed significant acts of
solidarity rooted in civil society and
including volunteers and activists, faith
groups, mayors, business leaders, and
influential figures in sports and the arts.
UNHCR invested in building stronger ties
with international and national organizations
of all kinds, including humanitarian,
development, human rights, faith-based
and academic. The international character
of refugee protection benefitted from
interaction with collaborative networks of
cities, civil society organizations, sports
entities, and business associations.

© Ciyota

"A “whole-of-society” engagement: a comprehensive refugee response
should involve a multi-stakeholder approach, including national and
local authorities, international organizations, international financial
institutions, regional organizations, regional coordination and partnership
mechanisms, civil society partners, including faith-based organizations
and academia, the private sector, media and refugees themselves.”

Refugee-led organizations transform
lives of people
Civil society plays an important role in advocating for constructive
and human responses to forced displacement at all levels,
from the local to the global. Through stronger engagement
with refugee youth, several refugee-led organizations have
been created. For example, the NGO COBURWAS (Burundi, the
Republic of the Congo, Rwanda and Sudan) and International
Youth Organization to Transform Africa (CIYOTA)—
which were among the five runners-up for the 2017
UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award—founded by young refugees from different nationalities in Uganda,
helped to transform the lives of young refugees, particularly girls, through education.

Greater support from supporters around the
world, and the changes they can effect, was
also visible across the range of campaigns
and initiatives designed to demonstrate
public solidarity with refugees and other
people of concern. From the flagship
campaigns such as #WithRefugees, and
the #IBelong campaign, to campaigns run
by UNHCR’s National Partners, to other
initiatives at regional, national and local
levels, when considered as a whole, these
many actions—of generosity, of solidarity,
regardless of how small—were significant
in showing that despite the often toxic
narratives surrounding these issues, there
was a constituency of millions who cared
about refugees and other people of concern.
By virtue of the fact these campaigns were
successful in engaging diverse audiences,
they also helped show that better
responses to displacement were also often
“whole-of-society” responses.

Mobilizing global public solidarity:
#WithRefugees campaign
In 2017, the #WithRefugees campaign
continued to showcase global public
solidarity with refugees at a time of
unprecedented numbers of people on the
move and increasing levels of xenophobic
sentiment. The campaign also continued

running at a time of growing global
consensus that a fundamental change was
needed in responses to refugee crises—
that there was a need to do better by both
refugees and the countries that host them.
The campaign continued to engage the
community in two key ways:
•	 Individuals supportive of the cause signed

the #WithRefugees petition.
•	 Organizations showed their support by

joining the #WithRefugees coalition.
The campaign also engaged diverse
communities through its #WithRefugees
solidarity map. This interactive map is a
visual representation of how refugees
and communities all around the world are
standing together.
By the end of 2017, the campaign had
measured more than 15 million solidarity
actions. This included 1.8 million signatures
on the campaign petition, which asks
leaders to ensure every refugee child has
an education; every refugee family has
somewhere safe to live; and every refugee
can work or learn new skills to support their
families. The total also included actions
taken by supporters to share positive stories
of refugees and communities working in
solidarity.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 25

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

OVERVIEW | E X PA N D I N G PA R T N E R S H I P S

After fleeing violence, the right to work meant Gilbert was
able to rebuild his seafood business. Now his company is a
member of the #WithRefugees coalition.
In the 1990s, Gilbert and his family fled violence in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and sought sanctuary in
Rwanda. They had to leave behind everything they owned,
including their seafood business. Fortunately, he was able
to obtain a work permit in Rwanda and, after two years
of hard work, he saved enough to start a new seafood
business. Today, Gilbert has a thriving seafood import
business that employs many local Rwandans. Thanks to
his efforts, you can also now order sushi in a restaurant
in Kigali.

Congolese refugee helped bring sushi to Kigali.

© UNHCR/Katie Barlow

© UNHCR/Shaku Multimedia

The refugee entrepreneur who
brought sushi to Rwanda

Harnessing citizens’ goodwill can help
solve the refugee crisis
A two-day meeting in Geneva in November 2017 was the latest in
a series of thematic discussions convened by UNHCR, as part of
a process to draw up a global compact on refugees, as the world
grapples with record numbers of refugees.

Merry Alaya and her son Joud, refugees from Aleppo, in
the Syrian Arab Republic, moved to the United Kingdom in
February 2017 under that country’s resettlement scheme
for vulnerable Syrians.

The #WithRefugees campaign celebrates his story in
this video.

By the end of 2017, the #WithRefugees
coalition had nearly 300 members,
including sporting associations,
development and humanitarian actors,
academic institutions and multinational
corporations. The diversity of the coalition
has helped UNHCR showcase the ingenuity
and impact of non-traditional actors
supporting refugees. For an example,
see this video showcasing how coalition
partners in Europe stepped up to employ
and train refugees. In 2017, the campaign’s
coalition partners continued to be critical
in breaking down the echo chamber and
spreading the message of refugee solidarity
to new audiences.

Taking it to the next level: towards
a global compact on refugees
In addition to setting out a number of
specific commitments and consolidating
good practice in comprehensive refugee
responses with the CRRF, the New York
Declaration also established a process

26 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

for the development of a global compact
on refugees to consolidate, advance and
embed a number of the encouraging trends
outlined above. The High Commissioner will
propose the text of the global compact on
refugees for the consideration of the United
Nations General Assembly in 2018.
In order to propose a global compact that
represents the views of the international
community and can be adopted by the
General Assembly by consensus, UNHCR
undertook an extensive process of dialogue
with Member States and other relevant
stakeholders. In 2017, this process included
a series of five “thematic discussions”
to canvass proposals for inclusion in the
global compact on refugees, as well as a
process of stocktaking during the annual
High Commissioner’s Dialogue on
Protection Challenges in December. By
the end of 2017, UNHCR was preparing
the “zero draft” of the global compact on
refugees for release in January 2018.

UNHCR is seeking ways of sharing responsibility for refugees more
fairly, which it wants to include in a programme of action as part
of the compact, a process set in motion in last year’s New York
Declaration.
An important issue at the two-day meeting was how to increase
solutions to the plight of refugees, which could include returning
home voluntarily when conditions allow, finding ways to become
self-reliant in the country of asylum, or expanding opportunities
for refugees to move to third countries through traditional
resettlement or via a range of complementary pathways.
“We need to work with refugees as an investment in the future
of the countries of origin. If we do it well, whatever we do in the
refugee response will be massive investment in peacebuilding,”
said UNHCR’s Assistant High Commissioner for Protection, Volker
Türk, adding that the voice of refugees was critical in this process.

The successful adoption and
implementation of the global compact on
refugees will require the spirit of solidarity
demonstrated by host governments and
the communities that welcome refugees
across the globe to be matched by
timely and predictable support from the
international community as a whole.
The global compact on refugees gives
a unique opportunity to consolidate the
progress that has been made so far in the

application of the CRRF, to embed the good
practices that have been observed, and to
ensure that the burden and responsibility
for hosting large numbers of refugees is
shared more equitably and predictably.
The global compact on refugees will build
upon the existing international legal system
for refugees, including the 1951 Refugee
Convention and its 1967 Protocol, and
further operationalize the strong expression
of political will in the New York Declaration.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 27

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

OVERVIEW | G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

GLOBAL STRATEGIC
PRIORITIES 2016-2017
UNHCR’s Global Strategic Priorities (GSPs) for the
2016-2017 biennium set out important areas in which
UNHCR made targeted efforts at improving the
protection and the well-being of people of concern,
and in seeking solutions. The GSPs are divided into
two categories: a set of operational priorities for field
operations and a set of support and management
priorities for core corporate functions.

align a number of the GSPs with the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) covered by the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, such as in the
areas of gender equality, peace and justice, food
security, health, education, livelihoods, and WASH.
At the field level, UNHCR continued to take an active
role in national SDG discussions to advocate the
inclusion of people of concern in national plans.

The operational GSPs guided the development and
implementation of UNHCR’s overall strategy and
annual operational plans and informed strategic
discussions at field level with partners and national
authorities for prioritization. Throughout the year,
progress against the GSPs were closely monitored
and corrective actions were undertaken when
required. Improvements have been made to better

Support and management GSPs provided direction
to the work at UNHCR’s Headquarters and regional
offices engaged in providing oversight, policy
development and operational support to field
operations. In 2017, the support and management
priorities included strengthening financial and
programme management; providing support and
policy guidance on protection matters; enhancing

UNHCR’s emergency response; reinforcing UNHCR’s
capacity to ensure effective leadership and
coordination of complex operation; and expanding
staff development opportunities.

ACHIEVEMENTS
Focused efforts on core GSP areas yielded positive
results in 2017, with many operations reporting
improvements in the situation of people of concern.
Sustained advocacy efforts and technical support led
to positive changes in legislation and policies which
directly impact the life of refugees, IDPs and stateless
persons. To support these changes UNHCR built the
capacity of key stakeholders, including governmental
authorities and civil society organizations, and
supported national authorities with law or policy
development through provision of legal advice.
UNHCR continued to strengthen registration
processes and quality data collection, including
biometrics. The Office rolled out its biometric
identity management system (BIMS) in an additional
17 operations, and a total of 4.4 million people of
concern have now been biometrically enrolled in

48 operations. UNHCR and partners also continued to
raise awareness of the importance of birth registration
as critical to securing the rights of children.
Together with partners, UNHCR worked to prevent
and respond to sexual and gender-based violence
(SGBV), and used mass sensitization and awareness
campaigns, alongside targeted trainings of community
leaders and influential groups, including youth
and men. The Office continued advocating for the
inclusion of refugee children in national education
systems and national child protection services.
UNHCR focused on reducing the cost and
environmental footprint of water supply systems by
installing solar powered water pumping systems. The
expanded use of solar energy for water pumping in
19 operations reduced the associated cost of water
supply by up to 80 per cent, mainly through fuel cost
savings.
Progress was also achieved in improving relations
between displaced populations and host
communities. Working jointly with the peaceful
coexistence committees, community support projects
were implemented to enhance social cohesion

2017 PROGRESS AT A GLANCE | OPERATIONAL GSPs
FAVOURABLE
PROTECTION
ENVIRONMENT

FAIR PROTECTION
PROCESSES AND
DOCUMENTATION

•	Legislative changes enhancing
the protection of asylum-seekers
and refugees were reported in
27 countries.

•	64% of 53 situations maintained or
increased the systematic issuance
of birth certificates for newborn
children.

•	Improvements in the national laws
and policies on IDPs were reported
in 10 countries.

•	81% of 96 situations maintained or
increased the levels of individual
registration.

•	12 countries amended their
nationality laws to more effectively
prevent statelessness or to protect
the rights of stateless persons.
•	A number of States took important
steps to grant nationality to
stateless persons, resulting in some
56,500 stateless persons who
acquired or had their nationality
confirmed.

28 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

SECURITY FROM
VIOLENCE AND
EXPLOITATION

BASIC NEEDS AND
SERVICES

COMMUNITY
EMPOWERMENT
AND SELF-RELIANCE

DURABLE SOLUTIONS

•	85% of 104 situations maintained or
improved the provision of support
to known SGBV survivors.

•	62% of 98 surveyed camps or
settlements met UNHCR’s standard
for global acute malnutrition (≤10 %).

•	53% of 58 situations maintained or
increased the participation of women
in leadership structures.

•	55% of 42 situations reported some
improvement in the local integration
of refugees.

•	79% of 70 situations reported
increased community involvement
in prevention and protection of
SGBV survivors.

•	All of 135 monitored sites met
UNHCR’s standard for mortality
among children under five years old
(<1.5/1,000/month).

•	48% of 65 situations reported
improvements in the relations
between people of concern and local
communities.

•	79% of 42 situations reported
supporting refugees to repatriate
voluntarily, in safety and dignity,
where conditions permit.

•	65% of 74 situations maintained
or increased the number of
unaccompanied or separated
refugee children for whom a best
interests procedure has been
initiated or completed.

•	61% of 70 situations maintained
or increased the percentage of
households living in adequate
dwellings.

•	84% of 38 operations reported an
increase in the number of people of
concern between the age of 18 to 59
who were self-employed or with their
own business.

•	71% of 44 situations increased
non-discriminatory access to
national child protection and
social services.

•	85% of 46 situations maintained or
increased levels of water supply at
sites.

•	63% of 96 situations maintained
or increased the enrolment rate of
primary school-aged children.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 29

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

and addressed the shared needs of local host
communities and displaced people. Through these
projects UNHCR used social, recreational, cultural,
and livelihoods activities to bolster relationships
between displaced and host community members, to
enhance integration, and to increase self-reliance.

CHALLENGES
Difficulty in achieving progress in some priority
areas was most often linked to the challenge of
accommodating a comprehensive response with finite
budgetary resources, and the need to prioritize certain
interventions over others. The overall increasing
needs in most countries where UNHCR was present
largely exceeded the availability of resources.
Limited resources resulted in cuts to food and

OVERVIEW | G LO B A L S T R AT E G I C P R I O R I T I E S

nutritional assistance, and a rise in food insecurity.
Approximately 3.3 million refugees received less than
acceptable standards of food assistance (based on
2,100 kcal/person/day).
Despite important progress made in 2017, UNHCR
continued to face challenges in promoting equality
and achieving meaningful participation of women and
girls in decision-making processes and leadership
structures. In a number of UNHCR’s operations,
societal attitudes hampering women’s and girls’
participation in leadership structures were common.
Progress towards overcoming this challenge is slow,
as beliefs and engrained societal expectations often
require incremental change. Ensuring access to
assistance and basic services was also challenging
because of the increasing number of people of
concern on the move, or living in urban areas.

In that regard, operations faced challenges in the
implementation of effective best interests procedures
due to limited specialized services and lack of
quality community-based alternative care options
for unaccompanied or separated refugee children, in
particular for adolescent boys.
While UNHCR made important progress in expanding
refugees’ financial inclusion and promoting refugees’
right to work, existing legal frameworks or practical
obstacles, such as high unemployment and poverty
rates in many host countries, continued to impede
access to safe and sustainable employment for people
of concern. UNHCR continued to advocate with States
for legal work rights for refugees, and strengthened
partnerships including with development actors
and the private sector to increase access to work
opportunities for people of concern.

MORE INFORMATION
A summary of progress made against UNHCR’s GSPs
in 2017 is presented below. Additional examples are
highlighted throughout this publication. Detailed
reporting on UNHCR’s achievements and challenges
across all GSP areas in 2017 can be found in the
progress report, which is available on the Global
Focus website (see QR Code below). The report
outlines the progress achieved against each of
the GSPs, includes additional highlights from field
operations, and information on global and regional
initiatives that further reinforced and complemented
the actions taken.

2017 PROGRESS AT A GLANCE | SUPPORT AND MANAGEMENT GSPs
FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT

INTERNATIONAL
PROTECTION

INFORMATION AND
COMMUNICATIONS
TECHNOLOGIES

COORDINATION

PROGRAMME
MANAGEMENT

EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS AND
RESPONSE

MOBILIZATION
OF SUPPORT

HUMAN
RESOURCES

•	UNHCR upgraded its
enterprise resource
planning system that
adopts industry best
practice and standards
and will lead to improving
overall effectiveness.

•	Legal advice, guidance
and operational support
on a range of protection
issues was provided
to field operations and
States, including on legal
obligations and individual
rights of people of
concern.

•	UNHCR enhanced
security governance,
implemented an
information security
programme, and
strengthened
cybersecurity, data
protection and privacy
controls, ensuring
protection of data of
people of concern.

•	The three Global Clusters
for Protection, Camp
Coordination and Camp
Management, and Shelter
provided guidance and
field support to cluster
members and field
coordinators in over
20 operations, including
through the deployment
of surge capacity staff and
technical experts.

•	UNHCR’s Needs
Assessment Handbook
was issued, accompanied
by a variety of actions to
improve joint assessment
analysis in the inter-agency
context, as well as within
UNHCR operations.

•	Lifesaving assistance
through core relief items
was provided to 1.2 million
displaced people in 2017.

•	The level of donor support
received by UNHCR
reached over $3.9 billion,
with income from private
sector fundraising of
$400 million.

•	UNHCR continued the
work on ensuring that the
Office is benefiting from
a diverse workforce and
achieving gender parity.

•	The Office further
strengthened its financial
management capacity
by issuing new guidance,
tools and advanced
learning opportunities.
•	The financial statement
for 2017 was prepared in
compliance with IPSAS
accounting standards.

•	In support of the #IBelong
Campaign to end
statelessness by 2024,
UNHCR produced a
number of new guidance
materials, including a
guide on programming
for statelessness, a
paper on good practices
on birth registration
for the prevention of
statelessness, and a
paper on the Sustainable
Development Goals and
addressing statelessness.

•	For the first time,
UNHCR mobilized the
Refugee Emergency
Telecommunications
Sector mechanism that,
within the framework of
the Refugee Coordination
Model, coordinates the
provision of internet
connectivity and security
communications services
to the wider humanitarian
community in refugee
emergencies.

•	Some 8 million people
were assisted with cash
in 94 countries. The
Office provided technical
support to 57 country
operations and 5 regional
offices in implementing
cash-based intervention
programmes.

•	UNHCR trained 1,350
staff and partners on
emergency preparedness
and response, including
through workshops on
emergency management,
senior emergency
leadership programme,
and situational emergency
trainings, among others.
•	A revised Policy on
Emergency Preparedness
and Response was issued.
The policy improves
and simplifies access
to human, financial and
material resources, and
has an enhanced focus
on partnerships and
inclusivity.

•	UNHCR’s #WithRefugees
campaign, which aims to
showcase global public
solidarity with refugees,
measured more than
15 million solidarity actions
in favour of refugees.
This included 1.8 million
signatures on the
campaign petition.

•	Launched several new
certification programmes,
including on programme
management, human
resources and supply
chain management and
offered 30 key learning
programmes to over
4,000 UNHCR staff.

•	The Executive Committee
grew from 98 to 101
Members, reflecting the
increasing global interest
and support of the work of
UNHCR.

•	Over 62 security support
missions were conducted
including to emergency
operations in Angola,
Bangladesh, Iraq and
Uganda.
30 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 31

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

Funding UNHCR’s
Programmes
This chapter presents an overview of UNHCR’s
requirements, income and expenditure in 2017.
More detailed information can be found
on UNHCR’s main operational reporting
platform, Global Focus.

TABLE 1

With the total population of concern to UNHCR
growing to 71.4 million people, UNHCR’s global needs
based budget grew nearly nine per cent during the
year.

This growth clearly reflected the increasing or
worsening crises generating greater needs for more
people in more places.

total funding. However, unearmarked funding from the
private sector increased to $207 million, accounting for
35 per cent of UNHCR’s unearmarked funding in 2017.

By the end of 2017, UNHCR’s revised budget had
grown from $7.309 billion to $7.963 billion. Eight
supplementary budgets totalling $832.1 million were
added during the year, and there was a budget
reduction of $179 million. This meant a net increase in
the final budget of $653 million from the beginning
of the year.

Expenditure totalled $4.1 billion, including $1.5 billion
disbursed to partners. The implementation rate was
90.6 per cent. As a result of a significant increase
in 2017 of the needs compared to 2016, taking into
account funds available the funding gap increased from
41.3 per cent in 2016 to 43.3 per cent in 2017. This
meant a higher percentage of the global needs of
people of concern to UNHCR were unfunded when
compared to 2016.

Total funds available to UNHCR reached $4.510 billion,
with flexible funding—unearmarked and softly
earmarked funding—decreasing as a percentage of

| BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE | USD

REGION AND SUB-REGION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

AFRICA
West Africa

64,581,448
26,097,946
29,806,677
17,823,404
62,632,419
19,893,064
-

53,530,843 309,229,576
19,791,134 145,123,470
107,695,287 1,816,990,419
47,851,756 867,987,884
91,903,478 685,611,730
35,816,625 310,587,030
- 113,368,306
66,375,585

Eastern Europe

Expenditure

8,419,440
4,868,402
6,081,350
2,665,885
3,104,477
791,153
1,479,829
948,936

Budget

2,495,964,781

19,085,097

157,020,545

253,129,608 2,925,200,031

THE AMERICAS

Expenditure

1,213,525,666

9,274,374

63,814,415

103,459,516 1,390,073,970

North America and the Caribbean

Budget
Expenditure

Central Africa and the Great Lakes

Budget
Expenditure

Southern Africa

SUBTOTAL AFRICA

Budget

Budget
Expenditure

North Africa

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL NORTH AFRICA AND MIDDLE EAST

Budget
Expenditure

South-Eastern Europe

Budget
Expenditure

Central Asia

Budget
Expenditure

South Asia

Budget
Expenditure

South-East Asia

Budget
Expenditure

East Asia and the Pacific

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

Budget
Expenditure

Northern, Western, Central and Southern Europe

SUBTOTAL EUROPE

1,077,226,947
714,994,398
217,910,614
116,298,449

1,616,494
962,580
-

146,000,000
4,841,298
-

803,385,041 2,028,228,482
368,163,372 1,088,961,648
14,145,268 232,055,882
10,965,047 127,263,496

1,295,137,562
831,292,847

1,616,494
962,580

146,000,000
4,841,298

817,530,309 2,260,284,364
379,128,419 1,216,225,144

240,902,368
111,961,995
6,518,234
3,563,764
27,912,951
16,192,458
149,944,782
81,697,824
12,395,498
9,196,801

235,000
139,759
2,434,971
1,922,178
847,055
759,903
10,917,602
5,554,010
435,354
387,166

98,822,675
27,886,202
-

21,986,592
18,357,881
25,278,749
11,998,713
-

361,946,635
158,345,837
8,953,206
5,485,943
28,760,006
16,952,362
186,141,132
99,250,547
12,830,852
9,583,967

437,673,832
222,612,842

14,869,983
8,763,016

98,822,675
27,886,202

47,265,341
30,356,593

598,631,831
289,618,654

Latin America

3,812,592
1,899,693
774,243
679,460

34,555,929
19,248,648
17,684,996
6,955,167
-

429,650,058
186,919,900
61,208,117
35,435,353
336,889,691
274,123,540

Budget

762,553,787

8,366,319

4,586,836

52,240,925

827,747,866

Expenditure

461,375,750

6,320,074

2,579,153

26,203,815

496,478,792

17,629,756
9,295,155
90,001,777
55,025,058

12,159,555
6,205,793
1,727,437
1,147,981

-

29,868,265
14,363,253

29,789,311
15,500,948
121,597,480
70,536,292

107,631,533

13,886,992

-

29,868,265

151,386,791

64,320,212

7,353,774

-

14,363,253

86,037,240

Budget

5,098,961,494

57,824,884

Expenditure

2,793,127,318

32,673,820

99,121,067

435,531,073
366,082,944
241,179,100
231,161,109

-

-

Budget

5,775,671,667

57,824,884

Expenditure

3,390,371,371

32,673,820

99,121,067

490,896,196
20,000,000
12,000,000
7,674,047

-

-

Budget

6,298,567,864

57,824,884

Expenditure

3,398,045,418

32,673,820

Budget
Budget

Budget
Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL AMERICAS

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL FIELD

Global Programmes

Budget
Expenditure

Headquarters1

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL PROGRAMMED ACTIVITIES

Operational Reserve

Budget

NAM Reserve2

Budget

JPO

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL PROGRAMMED ACTIVITIES

1
2

32 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

2,112,774
1,441,161
3,274,512
2,406,665
2,979,033
2,472,248

Expenditure

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
South-West Asia

Expenditure

392,981,355
166,230,090
36,436,016
24,173,828
333,136,416
270,971,832

Budget
Expenditure

Expenditure

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Middle East

TOTAL

EUROPE
182,697,844
94,365,988
1,673,407,105
799,646,839
527,971,356
254,086,189
111,888,477
65,426,650

Budget
Expenditure

East and Horn of Africa

REGION AND SUB-REGION

TOTAL

406,430,056 1,200,034,449 6,763,250,883
553,511,596 3,478,433,801
-

435,531,073
366,082,944
241,179,100
231,161,109

406,430,056 1,200,034,449 7,439,961,056
553,511,596 4,075,677,854
-

490,896,196
20,000,000
12,000,000
7,674,047

406,430,056 1,200,034,449 7,962,857,253
99,121,067

553,511,596 4,083,351,901

Includes allocations from the UN Regular Budget.
“New or additional activities - mandate-related” (NAM) Reserve.					

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 33

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

The final budget of $7.963 billion comprised
programmed activities of $7.439 billion
(including management and administration
costs at Headquarters, which were covered
in part by the United Nations Regular Budget
contribution but which, at $43.3 million,
accounted for barely 1 per cent of funds
available in 2017); an operational reserve
of $490.9 million; the “new or additional
activities – mandate-related” reserve of
$20 million; and $12 million for Junior
Professional Officers.

There were other significant increases
during the year which reflected changing
needs and contexts. In South-East Asia,
budgets for Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 (stateless
programme) grew by 49 per cent and
68 per cent respectively as a result of the
outflow of refugees from Myanmar. In the
Middle East and North Africa region,
$146 million was added to Pillar 3
(reintegration projects) for assistance
in the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria).

CHART 1

| PROGRAMMED ACTIVITIES: REVISED AND FINAL BUDGETS
BY REGION AND PILLAR | 2017

Final budget
$7.963 billion

Revised budget
$7.309 billion
Pillar 1 80% | $5.858 billion

Pillar 1

79% | $6.298 billion

Pillar 2 1% | $53 million

Pillar 2

1% | $57.8 million

Pillar 3 3% | $246 million

Pillar 3

5% | $406.4 million

Pillar 4 16% | $1.152 billion

Pillar 4

15% | $1.200 billion

Revised budget
Final budget
PILLAR 1: REFUGEE PROGRAMME

PILLAR 2: STATELESS PROGRAMME
Millions

The Executive Committee, at its 66th session
in October 2015, approved an original
global needs-based budget for 2017 of
$6.408 billion. At its 67th session in October
2016, the Executive Committee approved
a revised budget of $7.309 billion based
on updated requirements. The final annual
budget of $7.963 billion for 2017 represents
the sum of the approved revised budget
of $7.309 billion and the total additional
needs identified during the course of the
year (eight supplementary budgets totalling
$832.1 million), and a budget reduction of
$179 million. This meant a net increase in
the final budget of $653 million from the
beginning of the year, and overall budget
growth of 9 per cent.

The budget reflected UNHCR’s priorities
and capacities. Globally, Pillar 1 (refugee
programmes) was the largest component
of the final budget, at 79 per cent, and
was also that portion of the budget that
increased the most, by $440 million.
Regionally, the largest budget was in
Africa, at $2.925 billion, or 39 per cent
of programmed activities. Within Africa,
$1.816 billion, or 62 per cent of Africa’s
budget, was in the East and Horn of Africa,
reflective of a series of protracted and
overlapping crises.

Millions

2017 BUDGET

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

4 000
3 500

30

25

3 000
20
2 500

The budget reduction of $179 million was
mainly due to the realignment of the
inter-agency Regional Refugee and
Resilience Plan in response to the Syria
crisis (3RP).

15

2 000
1 500

10

1 000
5

500

0

0

Africa
Africa

Americas

Asia and the
Pacific

Europe

Americas

Global
Headquarters Middle East
Programmes
and North
Africa

Europe

Global
Headquarters Middle East
Programmes
and North
Africa

PILLAR 4: IDP PROJECTS

250

Millions

Millions

PILLAR 3: REINTEGRATION PROJECTS

Asia and the
Pacific

1 400
1 200

200
1 000
150

800
600

100

400
50
200
0

0
Africa

34 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Americas

Asia and the
Pacific

Europe

Global
Headquarters
Programmes

Middle East
and North
Africa

Africa

Americas

Asia and the
Pacific

Europe

Global
Headquarters Middle East
Programmes
and North
Africa

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 35

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

SUPPLEMENTARY BUDGETS
With the priorities driving the increase
in UNHCR’s budget coming mostly from
the need to respond to new or worsening
crises, eight supplementary budgets,
two of which were revised, were issued
CHART 2

(see Chart 2). These were for emergencies
ranging from South Sudan in January, to the
outflows from the Democratic Republic of
the Congo in June, to the Myanmar crisis
in September. The financial requirements
for these budgets came to 11 per cent of
programmed activities.

Chart XX | Supplementary
| 2017
| SUPPLEMENTARY
BUDGETSappeals
| 2017

2017 INCOME
Chart 6 | LEVELS OF EARMARKING | 2012-2017
Unearmarked funding has increased in absolute terms from $451 million in

CHART 3

| LEVELS
OF
EARMARKING
| 2017
2012 to
$589
million in 2017, but
in percentage terms it reduced from
20 percent to 15 per cent between 2012 and 2017

2017

15

20

45

20

Burundi situation | $33.3 million | 4%
Central Mediterranean route situation
$56.7 million | 7%

Syria situation | $146 million | 18%

DRC situation | $34.3 million | 4%

2012

20

32

20

28

Myanmar situation | $53.6 million | 6%

0%

Total supplementary budgets
$832.1 million

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Nigeria situation | $49.7 million | 6%

Unearmarked

Softly earmarked

Earmarked

Tightly earmarked

Somalia situation | $85 million | 10%

Trends in income (2012-2017)
South Sudan situation | $373.5 million | 45%

Refugee Response Plans
In line with the Refugee Coordination Model,
UNHCR continued to assume its leadership
role in refugee situations, nominating
regional refugee coordinators responsible
for leading operational planning, resource
mobilization and implementation of the
Refugee Response Plans (RRPs). The
RRPs provide a comprehensive picture
of identified needs, impact on host

Table 2 | Refugee Response Plans
Burundi RRP
Europe RMRP
Nigeria RRP
South Sudan RRP
Syria 3RP
TOTAL

36 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

communities, operational strategy and
financial requirements. In 2017, five RRPs
were in place with plans for the Syria and
Yemen crises co-led, respectively with
UNDP and IOM. The RRPs involved more
than 540 partners, requested nearly
$7.4 billion in funding to meet assessed
needs, and reported $3.5 billion in
contributions. The overall funding level of
RRPs was 48 per cent (see table below).

INTER-AGENCY
BUDGET

INTER-AGENCY
FUNDING RECEIVED

•	 The share of flexible funding (unearmarked
and softly earmarked) has reduced from
52% in 2012 to 35% in 2017. This meant
that about two thirds of UNHCR’s income
in 2017 was earmarked at the country level
and below.
•	 Although unearmarked funding has
increased in absolute terms from $451
million in 2012 to $589 million in 2017,
in percentage terms it reduced from
20 percent to 15 per cent between 2012
and 2017
•	 However, unearmarked funding from the
private sector is rising, especially from
National Partners.

•	 Despite some fluctuations, softly earmarked
funding and earmarked funding remained
at similar levels over the period in review.
•	 Earmarking has almost quadrupled
in absolute terms, increasing from
$457 million to almost $1.728 billion.
Matching earmarked funding with prioritized
activities can be at times very challenging.
•	 While earmarking at the country level

provides some level of flexibility, it does
not provide the flexibility of unearmarked
or softly earmarked funding, and is a step
away from commitments made by donors
under the Grand Bargain.

FUNDING LEVEL

429,309,626
690,935,696
241,157,206
1,383,971,569
4,633,255,733

88,998,521
360,784,479
145,260,912
464,792,416
2,484,154,016

21%
52%
60%
34%
54%

7,378,629,830

3,543,990,344

48%

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 37

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

CHART 4

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

| SOURCES OF INCOME | 2017

Governments
and the European Union
$3.365 billion

87%
Private donors
$400 million

10%

2%

1%

Note: Contributions exclude $59 million for implementation in 2018.

Sources and diversity of income
Despite rising needs, voluntary contributions
in 2017 did not quite reach the levels of 2016.
UNHCR’s donor base remained stable, as
did most of the trends regarding the sources
and quality of funding.
UNHCR received voluntary contributions
from 147 donors (146 in 2016), ranging from
Member States to pooled funds to private
individuals (see Table 5). The main source
of diversity came from the private sector.
Individual donors increased 22 per cent from
1.57 million in 2016 to 1.92 million in 2017.
The profiles of UNHCR’s top donors was
virtually unchanged, as was the percentage
of income from the top ten (see Chart 5).
When taking the last five years, from 2012
to 2017, there have been notable increases
in contributions from some donors, notably
within the top three. The United States of
America increased the most in absolute

UN pooled funding and
Intergovernmental donors
$75 million

UN Regular Budget
$43 million

terms, from $793.4 million to $1.450 billion,
an 82 per cent increase, with support for
supplementary appeals staying strong.
Germany increased in percentage terms
very significantly by 590 per cent, from
$69.2 million to $477 million.
The European Union also increased
from $167 million to $430 million, or
161 per cent. Regarding those donors giving
over $20 million, the picture was generally
one of fluctuations in contributions, with
some notable increases such as Italy from
$12.8 million to $51.4 million, France
from $23.2 million to $39.7 million, and
Belgium from $16.8 million to $23 million.
The commitment to unearmarked funding
remained strong from donors such as
Sweden, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom and Norway. Some emerging
donors also increased, such as China. In
2012, China contributed $474,630, but this
had increased to $11.1 million in 2017,
an increase of more than 2,000 per cent.

There was a significant decline in the
income from pooled funding mechanisms,
with contributions from the CERF declining
nearly 50 per cent to $36.6 million, its
lowest level since 2007. The primary reason
for this was the prioritization by CERF of
famine response in Africa, and its focus on
a limited set of actors and sectors for that
emergency response. Pooled funding in
general declined quite significantly by
32 per cent compared to 2016.
UNHCR received $32.9 million in in-kind
contributions, of which some 34 per cent
was support for premises. Other in-kind
support included provision of standby
partners, and supply of non-food items.

CHART 5

The timing and the type of income received
during the year point to two key features.
Firstly, for most of the year, the timeliness
of income lagged behind the rate in 2016
which, given UNHCR was faced with higher
needs, was challenging. Only in the last
quarter did receipt of contributions come
close to the 2016 level. By that point,
however, UNHCR’s budget was $453 million
higher than in 2016, and goes towards
explaining why in 2017 the gap between
the needs and resources (43 per cent) was
larger than in 2016 (41 per cent).
Secondly, earmarked funding increased
substantially to 65 per cent of UNHCR’s
voluntary contributions.

| CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE TOP TEN DONORS | 2017

Chart XX | Contributions from the top ten donors | 2017
The top three donors provided 61 per cent of voluntary contributions, with the top ten overall–including
España con ACNUR–providing 79 per cent

España con ACNUR
$80.7 million | 2%

Netherlands | $75.7 million | 2%

Canada | $81.8 million | 2%
Norway | $98.9 million | 3%
Sweden | $111.9 million | 3%

United Kingdom
$136.2 million | 3%
Japan | $152.3 million | 4%

Contributions from the
top ten donors came to
$3.101 billion

United States of America
$1.450 billion | 37%

European Union
$436 million | 11%

Germany | $476.9 million | 12%

38 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 39

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

CHART 6

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

| TOP TEN SOURCES OF UNEARMARKED FUNDS | 2017
Chart XX | Top ten sources of unearmarked funds | 2017

Private donors in Italy | $21.2 million | 4%
Private donors in the USA | $22.6 million | 4%

Sweden | $76 million | 13%

Denmark | $22.8 million | 4%

Japan | $24.9 million | 4%

Private donors in the
Repubic of Korea
$31.6 million | 5%

The top ten sources of
unearmarked funding
provided $408.3 million,
or 69% of all
unearmarked funding

España con ACNUR
$70.8 million | 12%

Norway | $40.9 million | 7%

Netherlands | $52.1 million | 9%
United Kingdom | $45.3 million | 8%

Flexibility of funding
UNHCR defines two main types of funding
as flexible. Softly earmarked funding—
which can be used across a given region or
situation in accordance with the priorities
and activities identified by UNHCR (see
overleaf)—and the most valued, which is
unearmarked funding.
Contributed without restrictions on its use,
unearmarked funding allows UNHCR critical
flexibility in how best to reach refugees and
other populations of concern who are in the
greatest need and at the greatest risk. All
UNHCR offices benefit from the allocation
of these resources, with the largest share
spent on delivering programmes in the field,
and the balance used to support global
programmes, without which UNHCR would
not be able to deliver on its mandate.

40 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

$52.1 million or 9 per cent. The Swedish and
Dutch contributions each accounted
for 68 per cent and 69 per cent respectively
of contributions from those two governments
(see Chart 6).

Unearmarked funding in 2017 came to
$588.7 million from 87 donors (Table 3).
This was a 4.6 per cent increase on the
$562.6 million received in 2016. Although
an increase, it has to be set against the
general decline in the overall percentage of
unearmarked income against total income
received underway since 2012. Critically,
however, over 75 per cent of UNHCR’s
unearmarked funding was received in the
first quarter of the year, a vital indication
of timeliness and providing the Office with
valuable flexibility.
The top three donors of unearmarked
funding were Sweden with $76 million or
13 per cent of all unearmarked funding;
private donors in Spain with $70.8 million
or 12 per cent, all of which was channelled
through the National Partner, España con
ACNUR; and the Netherlands with

Six of the top ten sources of unearmarked
funding were governments, which provided
$262 million. This accounted for 64 per cent
of funding from the top ten contributors of
unearmarked funding, and 45 per cent of
all unearmarked funding. Also within that
top ten, there were four private sector
donors—the National Partners in Spain and
the United States of America, as well as
funds from the private sector in Italy and
the Republic of Korea—which contributed
$146.1 million, or 36 per cent of unearmarked
funding from the top ten donors. The
contributions from those four private sector
sources also accounted for just over 70 per
cent of all unearmarked funding raised from
the private sector.

TABLE 3

Sweden
Private Donors in Spain
Netherlands
United Kingdom
Norway
Private Donors in the Republic of Korea
Japan
Denmark
Private Donors in the United States of America
Private Donors in Italy
Private Donors in Japan
Private Donors in Sweden
Australia
Switzerland
Germany
Italy

In 2017, UNHCR recorded over $638 million in
multi-year funding, defined as contributions
for which the implementation period is over
24 months. However, nearly half of it—
49 per cent—was earmarked, with only
26 per cent unearmarked and 25 per cent
softly earmarked. Although multi-year
funding can be a valuable indicator of
predictability and flexibility, this can be
undercut if it comes with high levels
of earmarking.

| DONORS CONTRIBUTING OVER $1 MILLION
IN UNEARMARKED FUNDING | 2017

DONOR

France

UNHCR received $768 million in softly
earmarked funding, the majority from the
United States of America. Overall, this was
a decline from 2016, when UNHCR received
$786 million in softly earmarked funding.
The top donors of softly earmarked funding
were the United States of America, with
$481.6 million or 63 per cent; Germany, with
$143.5 million or 19 per cent; and Norway,
with $16.5 million or 2 per cent. A range
of other donors contributed the remaining
$126.2 million, or 16 per cent.

TOTAL

76,078,687
70,824,438
52,154,195
45,278,137
40,887,850
31,635,485
24,850,314
22,831,050
22,566,691
21,170,763
19,290,812
19,145,997
18,670,650
14,792,899
14,000,000
12,273,212
10,078,387

DONOR
Canada
Belgium
Ireland
Private Donors in China
Finland
Private Donors worldwide
Private Donors in Canada
New Zealand
Republic of Korea
Private Donors in the Netherlands
Luxembourg
Morocco
Saudi Arabia
Kuwait

Donors giving over $1 million
All other donors
TOTAL UNEARMARKED FUNDING

TOTAL

9,251,101
8,503,401
8,004,269
7,939,358
7,430,998
5,265,110
4,541,772
4,008,016
3,413,449
2,111,462
1,857,749
1,000,000
1,000,000
1,000,000
581,856,254
6,861,448
588,717,703

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 41

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

FOCUS ON THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Since 2014, UNHCR has almost doubled its
income from the private sector, reaching
$400 million in 2017, or 10 per cent of
voluntary contributions. Private individuals
donated $276 million. Partnerships with
companies, foundations and wealthy
philanthropists provided the remaining
$124 million. Just over 1.92 million

individuals donated to UNHCR, with
income from private individuals growing
by $53 million. Such broad-based support
from individuals and companies is an
encouraging example of the “whole-ofsociety” approach that UNHCR’s advocates
for. Importantly, the cost ratio has been
reduced to 32 per cent, meaning that for
every dollar invested, three dollars are
returned to fund UNHCR operations.

UNHCR’s global network of private sector
fundraising operations includes offices and
National Partners in around 30 markets,
with ten countries contributing 85 per cent
of UNHCR’s private sector income,
a broadly similar breakdown to the top ten
breakdown of the governmental donors.
More than half of all income in 2017
($213.5 million) was raised by the six
National Partners, with España con ACNUR
raising $80.7 million, equivalent to
20 per cent of all private sector income.

Chart 8 I PSP contributions and donor numbers
CHART 7

| PSP CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONOR NUMBERS | 2017
UNHCR’s National Partners

Donor numbers

Total income

Nearly half the income raised ($192 million)
came from Europe, followed by 29 per cent
($115 million) from Asia, 13 per cent
($50 million) from the Americas and
10 per cent ($42 million) from the Middle East
and North Africa. The emergency campaign
for the Rohingya crisis raised over $30 million
in the last quarter of the year with $12.6 million
raised from the Middle East and North
Africa. UNHCR also initiated fundraising
operations in Africa with the objective of
mobilizing the private sector and raising
awareness of the refugee cause in the
continent (see Africa regional summary).

2,500,000

“The National Partners are vital to the success of UNHCR’s mission.
National Partners are critical to public engagement and
the vision of a whole-of-society approach by raising awareness,
conducting advocacy, driving innovation, diversifying support,
and contributing financially to the activities of UNHCR around the world.”

450,000,000
400,000,000

2,000,000

350,000,000
300,000,000

Filipo Grandi, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

1,500,000
250,000,000

NUMBER OF DONORS

150,000,000
100,000,000

500,000

50,000,000

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

At $207 million, private sector unearmarked
funding was UNHCR’s largest single source
of such funds, and accounted for 52 per cent
of all private sector contributions. Softly
earmarked funding came to $69 million,
or 17 per cent of private sector contributions,
and tightly earmarked funding was

42 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

2013

2014

2015

2016

PSP CONTRIBUTIONS IN USD

200,000,000

1,000,000

2017

$124.1 million, or 31 per cent. The most
significant contributions from private sector
partnerships were from Educate A Child
Programme ($19 million), IKEA Foundation
($18 million) and UNIQLO ($12 million,
including the donation from UNIQLO's
founder, Mr Tadeshi Yanai).

UNHCR’s National Partners are independent,
non-governmental organizations, established
in accordance with the laws of the country
in which they operate. There are currently
six UNHCR National Partners: Australia for
UNHCR, España con ACNUR in Spain, Japan
for UNHCR, Sverige för UNHCR in Sweden,
USA for UNHCR, and UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe
in Germany.
Instrumental not only in securing income—on
average 93 per cent of private income from
the six countries where National Partners
are present is channelled through them—the
National Partners raised awareness about
refuges and UNHCR in their countries and
engaged millions of people in support of the
refugee cause.
With over 1.3 million committed supporters
worldwide and a network of high profile
advocates at both national and international

level, the National Partners are an integral
and powerful link between UNHCR and the
general public.
Committed and passionate, and with
wide and strong areas of partnership and
collaboration, the National Partners used
their strong presence on social media and
a wide range of tools such as face to face
fundraising, direct response television,
digital outreach and marketing, and
innovative awareness raising campaigns
to help influence the general public and
the private sector towards the cause of
refugees and other people of concern.
Expanding these partnerships further to
leverage public support for the refugee
cause is resulting in the development
of dynamic methods of fundraising and
communications which are unique to
each market.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 43

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

CHART 8

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

| INCOME FROM NATIONAL PARTNERS | 2017
Income from National Partners | 2017

Japan for UNHCR
$21.5 million | 10%
118,000 individual donors
Sverige för UNHCR
$21.8 million | 10%
132,000 individual donors

Australia for UNHCR
$24.3 million | 11%
90,000 individual donors

España con ACNUR
$80.7 million | 38%
500,000 individual donors

Total
$213.5 million

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe
$28.5 million | 13%
196,000 individual donors
USA for UNHCR
$36.7 million | 17%
120,000 individual donors

Australia for UNHCR – Strong support
was provided to emergency appeals
including for food insecurity in Africa, and
the Rohingya crisis response. The latter
was Australia for UNHCR’s most successful
campaign ever, raising $5.6 million, including
a $1.9 million matched funding grant from
the Australian Government. Donors also
supported livelihoods projects in Uganda,
cash assistance in Jordan and child protection
in Ethiopia. Advocacy grew by launching
an Australian #WithRefugees platform,
mobilising an integrated World Refugee Day
campaign and supporting UNHCR’s Regional
Representation in Canberra. Social media
grew 33 per cent to over 315,000 followers.
Fundraising innovations included the
launch of chatbots, and instant debits for
face-to-face. A new website boosted online
donor conversion and increased online
revenue by 232 per cent.

44 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

España con ACNUR (Spain) – 2017 saw
continued and sustained growth and, in
addition to what it raised from individual
donors, España con ACNUR raised almost
$4 million from decentralized public
institutions. These spectacular figures are
the result of an integrated awareness and
communication strategy that has involved
different fundraising channels such as
face-to-face, digital, multichannel, and
working in tandem with the biggest
foundations and corporations in the country,
such as La Caixa Banking Foundation. Hoping
to replicate its success and pass on lessons
learned, ECA began working with UNHCR to
set up a new National Partner in Argentina.
Japan for UNHCR – Japanese audiences
reacted positively to appeals for the
Rohingya crisis, supporting this emergency
in Asia with $2.2 million. In addition, a
letter from the Executive Director featuring

the cash assistance programme for Syrian
refugee families in Jordan triggered a
remarkable reaction from middle-giving
donors. The welcoming of Goodwill
Ambassador Yusra Mardini to Tokyo and
the appointment of MIYAVI as the first
Goodwill Ambassador from Japan attracted
broad attention from the Japanese media.
The 12th Refugee Film Festival and Tokyo
Marathon Charity continued to offer unique
opportunities, through the power of culture
and sports, to demonstrate solidarity with
people forced to flee.
Sverige för UNHCR (Sweden) – Strong
fundraising programmes together with
successful public relations campaigns and
activities helped the organization reach its
goals. Nearly 17,000 new committed donors
were acquired, and support from some
62,000 one-off donors was maintained.
Income from strategic partnerships
surpassed expectations thanks to larger
donations from the Swedish Postcode
Lottery, H&M Foundation, successful
cause-related marketing campaigns with
Lindex and in kind donations from Toyota
Sweden. Public relations activities and
campaigns were carried out together with
influencers and celebrities and helped
increase awareness and fundraising.

UNO-Flüchtlingshilfe (Germany) – An
integrated communication strategy across
all channels formed the basis for successful
fundraising, in particular a mailing
programme which generated $8.4 million.
In 2017, 41,151 new donors were acquired,
16,900 of whom through face-to-face
outreach, and some 8,400 through
digital. Particular focus was on supporting
emergency response in East Africa, and
winterization mainly in the Middle East.
USA for UNHCR – In addition to responding
to crises including the Syria and the
Rohingya emergencies, and supporting
innovative programmes such as cash
assistance, shelter, children at risk and
winterization, USA for UNHCR focused on
raising awareness and educating Americans
on the refugee crisis and supporting
US-based resettlement groups including
Hello Neighbor and the Refugee Congress.
USA for UNHCR also built and developed
strong partnerships with some of the most
well-known and influential corporations
globally including Google, Facebook
and UPS, developing tailored campaigns
utilizing each company’s strength to
leverage a global community to enlist
more people to support refugees.

PSP Rohingya Emergency Fundraising Campaign
Thirteen UNHCR Private Sector Partnership (PSP) Offices and all six National Partners raised $31 million in unearmarked
and earmarked funding over the eight month-long Rohingya Emergency Fundraising Campaign. UNHCR led global
private sector fundraising efforts, mobilizing support for the Rohingya refugees a full two weeks before any other
humanitarian agency and raising triple the original goal set for the campaign.
During the initial phase of the campaign, there was a new donation every minute across UNHCR’s global donation
pages. Many were new donors turning to UNHCR as a humanitarian leader on the Rohingya crisis. In addition to
generous donations from individuals, UNHCR received significant support from corporations and foundations, with
funding and in-kind contributions such as flights, logistics support and lifesaving aid.
Private sector funding directly impacted media coverage and public sector funding. For example, the Australian
Government set up a $1.9 million matching grant to respond to the outpouring of support by Australian citizens for
UNHCR’s appeal. This also benefitted from a full-scale media partnership with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation
that both raised awareness about the Rohingya refugee crisis and funding to support UNHCR’s response.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 45

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

2017 EXPENDITURE

46 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Middle East and North Africa
30% | $1.216 billion

Implementation rate
90.6 %

Total expenditure
$4.083 billion

Expenditure by Pillar

Headquarters
6% | $231.1 million

Pillar 1 (Refugees)
83% | $3.398 billion

Asia and the Pacific | 7% | $289.6 million

Global programmes
9% | $366 million

Europe | 12% | $496.4 million

PILLAR 3 - REINTEGRATION PROJECTS
Millions

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
1400,0

70,0

1200,0

60,0

1000,0

50,0

800,0

40,0

600,0

30,0

400,0

20,0

200,0

10,0

s
ter
uar

Europe

adq

ram
Pro
g

Asia and
the Pacific

Middle East
and
North Africa

He

me
s

a
fric
bal

Eas
t an

Africa

Mid

dle

Glo

dN
ort

hA

Eur

c
Pac
ifi
the

ope

as

-

and

PILLAR 2 - STATELESS PROGRAMME

PILLAR 4 - IDP PROJECTS

10,0

Millions

Pillar 2 (global stateless programme)
remained stable compared to 2016.
Pillar 3 (global reintegration projects)
increased by approximately $31.6 million
or 47 per cent mainly driven by operations
in Afghanistan, Nigeria, Pakistan and
Somalia. Pillar 4 (global IDP projects)
decreased by $91.6 million to 14 per cent,
with the bulk of the decrease attributable
to the Iraq operation, where insecurity
and deteriorating conditions created a
challenging operational environment. 

Americas | 2% | $86 million

Am
eric

Expenditure under Pillar 1 (global refugee
programme) increased by approximately
$176 million or 6 per cent compared to 2016
and at 83 per cent of total expenditure
accounted for the overwhelming majority
of UNHCR expenditure. Globally, major
Pillar 1 operations, as was the case in 2016,
included Lebanon, Jordan and Turkey due
to the Syria situation, Greece in Europe, and
Uganda, Ethiopia and Kenya in Africa.

Africa | 34% | $1.390 billion

Pillar 2 (Stateless)
1% | $32.6 million

Asia

Expenditure in Europe increased by
$48 million or 11 per cent mainly owing
to operations in Greece and Turkey.
Expenditure in the Americas increased by
$12.8 million, which was the largest increase
in percentage terms at 18 per cent due
to increased activities in the North and
Central America situation, the scale-up of
operations in the Venezuela situation; and
the reinforcement of the Regional Office in
Washington for regional activities in
the Caribbean.

Pillar 3 (Returnees)
2% | $99.1 million

ica

In contrast, expenditure in the Middle East
and North Africa and the Asia and the
Pacific regions decreased by $94.2 million
(7 per cent) and $86 million (23 per cent),
respectively. In the Middle East and North
Africa the overall net decrease was due to
decreases in Iraq and Syria and in spite of
expanding operations in Libya. In Asia and
the Pacific, a major decrease in Afghanistan
spending was only partly offset by a
significant increase in Bangladesh.

EXPENDITURE BY REGION | 2017

Pillar 4 (IDPs)
14% | $553.5 million

Afr

Africa had the highest expenditure in 2017
at nearly $1.4 billion, which represented an
almost 16 per cent increase compared to
2016. This was primarily due to the new and
evolving needs in the region as borne out
by the fact that almost 70 per cent of the
total supplementary budgets issued in 2017
were for the Africa region. The increases
in expenditure were primarily in Uganda,
Somalia and Angola.

EXPENDITURE BY PILLAR | 2017

Millions

The $116.3 million total increase in
expenditure in 2017 compared to 2016,
was not consistent across regions, global
programmes and Headquarters.

Global programmes increased by
$28.5 million or 8 per cent, mostly
attributable to additional investment in
Private Sector Partnerships and support
for the Comprehensive Refugee Response
Framework (CRRF). Headquarters increased
by $9.6 million or 4 per cent primarily for
investment in IT infrastructure and cyber
security. However, the ratio of Headquarters
expenditure to total expenditure remains
stable compared to 2016.  

| EXPENDITURE BY REGION AND PILLAR | 2017

Millions

Expenditure by Region

CHART 9

9,0

400,0
350,0

8,0
300,0

7,0
6,0

250,0

5,0

200,0

4,0

150,0

3,0
100,0

2,0

50,0

1,0
-

0

Africa

Americas

Asia and
the Pacific

Europe

Middle East
and
North Africa

Africa

Americas

Asia and
the Pacific

Europe

Middle East
and
North Africa

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 47

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

Expenditure by source of funding
Table 4 displays which sources of funding
were used to cover its expenditure, and
highlights how the unearmarked funding
was allocated. Unearmarked income
was allocated throughout the year in
line with identified priorities and needs,
and according to the overall objectives
of kickstarting emergency operations,
bolstering underfunded operations,
and enabling programmes to be fully
implemented.
Of UNHCR’s voluntary contributions,
15 per cent was unearmarked. This was
allocated according to need, priority,
and availability of unearmarked funding.
Including both the unearmarked carry-over
and unearmarked voluntary contributions
received in 2017, 68 per cent was allocated
to the field and 32 per cent to global
programmes.
Regarding the carry-over of unearmarked
funding from 2016, UNHCR successfully
optimized the use of its earmarked
funds so as to close the year with an

48 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

unearmarked balance. Given the late
receipt of contributions in 2017, this was of
particular improtance, and adheres to two
of the three key priorities in how UNHCR
uses unearmarked funding—bolstering
underfunded operations, and enabling
operations to implement as fully as
possible. It also helped minimize disruption
to operations, especially at the beginning
of the year, and especially given the need
to finalize agreements with partners around
December-January.
Analysis of this table also shows that,
true to its policy on the use of 7 per cent
programme support costs levied on
earmarked and softly earmarked funding,
these funds were spent almost exclusively
on Headquarters costs. UNHCR raised
$198.9 million in programme support
costs, with $177.8 million, or 89 per cent,
spent on Headquarters. An end-of-year
surplus of $21.1 million was allocated to
operations in Africa. To underline as well,
no unearmarked funding was used for
Headquarters.

TABLE 4

| 2017 EXPENDITURE BY SOURCE OF FUNDING | USD thousands

SOURCE OF FUNDING
Carry-over from prior years
Earmarked

Voluntary cash contributions

Unearmarked

Softly
earmarked a/

Earmarked

Voluntary
in-kind
Unearmarked contributions

United
Nations
Regular
Budget

Programme
support
costs

Other
income b/

TOTAL

FIELD OPERATIONS
139,060

157,875

785,673

218,610

35,073

11,120

21,192

-

21,470

1,390,074

Middle East and
North Africa

65,282

-

848,233

233,272

52,103

1,980

-

-

15,356

1,216,225

Asia and the Pacific

16,893

-

151,003

80,527

38,904

1,818

-

-

473

Europe

39,082

-

342,743

53,743

49,068

1,998

-

-

9,845

310

-

11,666

26,042

46,341

442

-

-

1,236

289,619
496,479
86,037

260,627

157,875

2,139,319

612,195

221,488

17,357

21,192

-

Africa

The Americas

TOTAL FIELD
OPERATIONS

48,380 3,478,434

19,473

-

40,320

39,477

180,281

10,819

-

Headquarters

3

-

664

-

-

4,745

177,801

43,326

4,622

366,083
231,161

Operational Reserve
and new or additional
activities - mandaterelated reserve

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Junior Professional
Officers Scheme

-

-

7,674

-

-

-

-

-

-

7,674

280,104

157,875

2,187,977

651,671

401,769

32,921

198,992

43,326

128,716

4,083,352

Global programmes

TOTAL

75,714

Notes:
a/ Includes contributions earmarked at the regional, sub-regional, situation or thematic level
b/ Includes miscellaneous income, prior year adjustments and cancellations and other internal transfers

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 49

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

Expenditure on partners
In 2017, $1.5 billion was provided to
1,035 non-governmental and non-profit
partners, accounting for around 37 per cent
of UNHCR’s expenditure. Of this,
$699 million ($670 million in 2016) was
allocated to 826 local and national partners,
including $524 million ($491 million in

CHART 10

2016) to 648 local or national NGOs. This
was the highest number of local and
national partners recorded as well as
the highest funding allocations made by
UNHCR to them. The majority of UNHCR’s
partners—795 organizations—implementing
projects and activities were for Pillar 1.

| UNHCR’s PARTNERS AROUND THE WORLD | 2017

19
178
National NGO
partners
International NGO
partners
Government
partners

190

UN Agencies/Other partners

648

CONCLUSION
Contribution levels remained relatively high
in 2017, and much of UNHCR’s unearmarked
funding came relatively early in the year,
providing UNHCR with much needed
flexibility. Contributions from the private
sector, especially of unearmarked funding,
increased.
Throughout the year, UNHCR maintained
or intensified efforts to expand its donor
base. Driven in large part by sustained
investment and innovative engagement
with individual donors, private sector
funding rose to 10 per cent of income, up
from 2 per cent ($22 million) in 2006, much
of it unearmarked. UNHCR engaged more
robustly with emerging donors, including in
the Gulf region, and deepened cooperation
with the World Bank and other international
financial institutions, particularly within the
framework of the CRRF.
However, there was continuing cause
for concern. The overall picture was
one of generous contributions, but still
insufficient for needs. Worryingly, the trend
in the amount of unearmarked and softly
earmarked funding is still on an overall
downward trajectory. Funding to UNHCR’s
situations was mostly earmarked and overall
low, even for high-profile ones like Somalia
(24 per cent funded) or South Sudan (37 per
cent) with the Central African Republic the
worse-funded situation at 13 per cent.

for support. Prioritization was thus defined
as a compromise between what was judged
urgent and essential within the Office’s
activities, and what was possible given
available resources and capacity. While the
Office prioritized lifesaving assistance and
core protection activities, this impacted
activities such as education, more durable
infrastructure, solutions, cash-based
intervention programmes, and interventions
requiring large investment costs but for
which there is strong evidence of the
benefits and greater cost efficiencies in the
long term.
Initiatives with development actors will be
of significant help in reducing the amount
the Office spends on care and maintenance
in protracted situations. However, even if
successful these will likely not eliminate
UNHCR’s reliance on key State partners
who provide the lion’s share of its funding,
and which provide much more than
financial resources alone. Such expansion
also requires investment in time, capacity,
staffing, and finances.
UNHCR offers its most heartfelt thanks for
the generous support it received in 2017
from governments, from the private sector—
citizens, National Partners, corporations,
and foundations—from inter-governmental
institutions, and from the many pooled
funding mechanisms.

The 43 per cent funding gap in 2017 meant
that, throughout the year, UNHCR had
to face and handle challenges related to
underfunding and how to prioritize activities

50 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 51

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

This table shows all voluntary contributions coming from all sources, including from governments and the
private sector in countries supporting UNHCR’s work, and from inter-governmental and pooled funding
mechanism. As such, it is a way of reflecting the financial support to UNHCR from the “whole-of-society”.
A traditional donor ranking is available from the Global Focus website using the QR code opposite.
TABLE 5

Portugal
Turkey

United States of America
Germany

GOVERNMENT

Malaysia

1,450,360,238
476,918,668

USD
PRIVATE DONORS

United Kingdom
Sweden
Norway
Netherlands
Spain1
Canada
Italy
2

Denmark
Republic of Korea

152,359,773
136,219,370
111,958,945
98,941,956
75,711,468
10,119,894
81,879,293
51,417,322
39,715,089
58,370,565
21,845,151

Switzerland

33,200,049
5,344,872
21,761,459
1,879,000
21,307,797
80,749,997
7,725,110
24,137,770
24,504,634
1,235,978
35,818,585
43,399,500

39,733,899
35,402,490

971,584
2,316,129
36,648,201

Central Emergency Response Fund3
Qatar
Belgium
Finland
China
Saudi Arabia

200,000
23,017,552
22,049,595
11,144,039
18,065,880

26,884,578
3,123

14,641,654
5,477,371

1,095
7,599,908
12,120,424
26,162
604,426

9,164,455
496,352
16,612,172

Country-based pooled funds4
Ireland
United Arab Emirates
Private donors worldwide
Austria
Kuwait
Luxembourg

9,368,387
8,619,490
8,536,825

5,941,187

UN Office for Project Services
Thailand

20,000

4,488,693
4,273,511

UN Department of Political Affairs
Indonesia
New Zealand

60,000
4,008,016

4,001,487
109
3,617,230

UN Children’s Fund
Hungary

2,823,613
2,450,000

UN Programme on HIV/AIDS
Czechia

2,419,034
2,090,890

The Global Fund
Russian Federation

2,000,000
1,797,051

International Organization for Migration
Singapore

60,000

1,441,885
1,403,511
1,394,426
1,380,483

UN Peacebuilding Fund5
UN Development Programme
UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs
Brazil

662,778

Egypt
Isle of Man
Morocco
Philippines

1,217,772
1,023,629
70,000

602,721
1,241,082

943,963
846,997

Intergovernmental Authority on Development

840,622

One UN Fund6
Iceland
Estonia
Mexico
Poland
OPEC Fund for International Development

52 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

825,000
748,461
80,000
667,377

633,452
400,000

TOTAL

Liechtenstein

150,000
254,065

65,510
46,458
6,273
301,213
135,140
246,957

Council of Europe Development Bank

242,761
242,640

UN Darfur Fund7

436,036,986

UN Regular Budget
France

UN FUNDS

39,463,883
28,644,926

European Union
Japan

INTER-GOVERNMENTAL
BODIES

299,705
301,020
300,000

Oman

| TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS | 2017

DONOR

Australia

Monaco

1,489,824,121
505,563,594
436,036,986
185,559,822
141,564,241
133,720,404
100,820,956
97,019,265
90,869,890
89,604,404
75,555,092
64,219,723
59,606,543
57,663,736
43,399,500
40,705,483
37,718,618
36,648,201
27,084,578
23,020,675
22,049,595
20,308,494
18,562,232
16,612,172
14,642,749
13,077,278
12,120,424
9,394,549
9,223,916
8,536,825
5,941,187
4,508,693
4,273,511
4,061,487
4,008,125
3,617,230
2,823,613
2,450,000
2,419,034
2,090,890
2,000,000
1,797,051
1,501,885
1,403,511
1,394,426
1,380,483
1,265,499
1,241,082
1,217,772
1,023,629
1,013,963
846,997
840,622
825,000
748,461
713,452
667,377
400,000

World Food Programme

200,000

African Union
South Africa

147,382
140,213

UN Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict8

132,747

Lebanon

115,000

UN Human Settlements Programme
Argentina
Bulgaria
Kazakhstan
Armenia
Lithuania
Romania
Malta
Israel
Algeria
Montenegro

113,900
112,361
111,963
108,000
105,197
103,521
103,086
100,000
100,000
82,745

Greece
Nigeria
Chile
Slovenia

63,735
70,000
68,897

300

228

82,464
17,270

67,000

UN Chief Executive Board for Coordination
Kyrgyzstan

60,256
53,130

Senegal

49,491

UN Population Fund
Cyprus
Azerbaijan
Serbia
Sri Lanka
Uruguay
Holy See
Croatia
Botswana

47,393
36,672
35,380
35,000
30,000
30,000
24,957
18,961
15,072

Ghana
Costa Rica
Slovakia
Zambia

14,907
11,614
10,081
9,752
5,370
3,816
3,420

Kenya
Uganda
India
Colombia
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Rwanda
Bermuda
Bangladesh

TOTAL *

3,000
2,745
1,000
1,000
278

365,216
347,478
306,273
301,213
285,140
254,065
246,957
242,761
242,640
200,000
147,382
140,213
132,747
115,000
114,200
112,361
111,963
108,000
105,197
103,521
103,314
100,000
100,000
82,745
82,464
81,005
70,000
68,897
67,000
60,256
53,130
49,491
47,393
36,672
35,380
35,000
30,000
30,000
24,957
18,961
15,072
14,907
11,614
10,081
9,752
5,370
3,816
3,420
3,000
2,745
1,000
1,000
278
3,942,450,095

1 Includes $3,961,980 in contributions from other public sources channelled through España con ACNUR.
2
Includes contributions channelled through Australia for UNHCR.
3
The Central Emergency Response Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see https://www.unocha. org/cerf/donors/donorspage. The amount includes $631,000 for refund due to changes
of needs in the field.
4 Country-based pooled funds are multi-donor funding mechanisms. For details, see https://www.unocha.org/ourwork/humanitarian-financing/country-based-pooled-funds-cbpfs
5
The United Nations Peacebuilding Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see http://www.unpbf.org/ and mptf.undp.org/factsheet/fund/PB
6 The One UN Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see http://mptf.undp.org/
7 The United Nations Darfur Fund is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details, see http://mptf.undp.org/
8 The United Nations Fund for Action Against Sexual Violence in Conflict is a multi-donor funding mechanism. For details see http://mptf.undp.org/factsheet/fund/UNA00
* Includes $59,277,807 for activities with implementation period covering 2018.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 53

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 6

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

| TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE | 2017

TABLE 7
USD

1. OPERATIONAL RESERVE APPROVED BY THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IN OCTOBER 2017
2. TRANSFERS FROM THE OPERATIONAL RESERVE	

Kenya
Rwanda
Somalia
Zimbabwe

43,614,883

798,710
777,378
832,400
1,493,407
4,361,644
8,263,539

Protection needs for mixed movment flows into Libya
SUBTOTAL

9,500,000
9,500,000
530,370
530,370

THE AMERICAS
Argentina
Brazil
Colombia
Costa Rica
United States of America
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Regional activities

Luxembourg

TOTAL

8,706,193

Netherlands
Denmark
Germany
Canada
France
Finland
Sweden
China
Norway
Australia

Cox's Bazar emergency response
SUBTOTAL
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
Venezuela situation
SUBTOTAL

69,500
881,292
1,099,228
110,000
615,868
563,483
463,552
3,802,923

AMOUNT
1,665,808
1,300,000
784,215
684,431
667,540
495,167
490,575
461,918
434,876
379,897
326,097
278,146
276,272
207,057
182,843
71,351

United States of America

Switzerland

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Bangladesh

DONORS
Japan

Emergency response –shelter and non-food items for IDPs
in the regions of Pool and Bouenza
Somalia situation
Return and reintegration of Rwandan refugees
Somalia situation
Protection and assistance for the Mozambican influx
SUBTOTAL

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Libya

USD

534,511,079

AFRICA
Congo (Republic of the)

| CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE JUNIOR PROFESSIONAL
OFFICERS SCHEME | 2017

Republic of Korea
Italy

GLOBAL PROGRAMMES
UNHCR investigation workforce support
Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework
Division of External Relations
Support for the intergovernmental conference on international migration
Global communications desk
Division of Programme and Support Management Refugee housing unit deployment
Strenthening preparedness in high-risk countries project
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply
Global fleet management vehicle insurance fund
In-kind services for the deployment of experts
SUBTOTAL
Executive direction and management

472,512
6,768,473
198,199
715,807
1,150,000
1,608,935
2,243,038
3,291,500
16,448,464

HEADQUARTERS
Executive direction and management
Division of International Protection
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply
Division of Human Resources Management
Division of Financial and Administrative
Management

3. BALANCE AFTER TRANSFERS	

54 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR investigation workforce support
Support to rapid organizational assessment
Support to change management
Humanitarian negotiation and protection analyst
Procurement network project
Support inclusion, gender and diversity activity
Staff welfare requirements
Cash-based interventions
MSRP upgrade project
SUBTOTAL

139,582
141,131
1,726,538
199,037
62,616
336,531
163,397
645,754
1,655,000
5,069,586
490,896,196

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 55

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

TABLE 8

OVERVIEW | F U N D I N G U N H C R ’ S P R O G R A M M E S

| IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS | 2017

TABLE 9

| PRIVATE DONORS OVER $100,000 IN SUPPORT OF UNHCR | 2017

USD
DONOR

DESCRIPTION

AMOUNT

UNHCR GLOBAL
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

Argentina
Armenia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Botswana
China
Croatia
Czechia
Denmark
Germany
Hungary
Ireland
Italy
Kazakhstan
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Luxembourg
Montenegro
Morocco
Nigeria
Poland
Australia
Danish Refugee Council
EUROtops Versand GmbH
Fuji Optical
Fast Retailing Co, Ltd, (UNIQLO)
IKEA Foundation
International Judo Federation
Norwegian Refugee Council
Sweden
International Olympic Committee
Save the Children
Vodaphone
iMMAP
LIXIL Water Technology, Americas
MSC Mediterranean Shipping Company
TOMS Shoes LLC
United Nations Foundation
UPS
Romania
Serbia
South Africa
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Nations Development Programme

TOTAL

56 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Premises for UNHCR office in Buenos Aires
Premises for UNHCR office in Yerevan
Premises for UNHCR office in Vienna
Premises for UNHCR warehouse in Baku
Premises for UNHCR office in Gabarone
Premises for UNHCR office in Hong Kong SAR (China)
Premises for UNHCR office in Zagreb
Premises for UNHCR office in Prague
Premises for UNHCR office in Copenhagen
Premises for UNHCR office in Nuremberg
Premises for UNHCR offices in Budapest:
Global Service Centre and Regional Representation for Central Europe
Deployment of standby experts through Irish Aid and Contribution of NFIs to Uganda
Premises for UNHCR office in Rome
Premises for UNHCR office in Almaty
Premises for UNHCR office in Kuwait City
Premises for UNHCR office in Bishkek
Premises for UNHCR office at University of Luxembourg
Premises for UNHCR office in Podgorica
Premises for UNHCR office in Laayoune, Western Sahara
Premises for UNHCR office in Lagos
Premises for UNHCR office in Warsaw
Deployment of experts by RedR Australia to various UNHCR operations
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Mens jackets to Ukraine
Optical package to UNHCR operation in Azerbaijan
New and used clothing for UNHCR operations in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Botswana,
Burkina Faso, Colombia, Dem. Rep. of the Congo, India, Malawi, Niger, Rwanda, Somalia,
South Sudan, Tanzania, Ukraine, Zimbabwe
NFIs for UNHCR operation in Syrian Arab Republic
Rubber mats and clothing in South Africa
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Deployment of experts by the Swedish Rescue Services (MSB) to various UNHCR operations
Mobile phones for Brazil
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Instant Classrooms and IT Equipment
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Toilet pans for Burkina Faso, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania
Transportation services to UNHCR operations in Kenya and Turkey
Shoes for UNHCR operations in Burkina Faso, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania
Mosquito nets for UNHCR operations in Cameroon and Kenya
Transportation services to UNHCR operations in Angola, Bangladesh and Kenya
Premises for UNHCR office in Bucharest
Premises for UNHCR office in Belgrade
Premises for UNHCR office in Pretoria
Premises for UNHCR office in Madrid
Deployment of experts by the Swedish Rescue Services (MSB) to various UNHCR operations
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Premises for UNHCR warehouse in Dubai provided through the International Humanitarian City
Deployment of standby experts to various UNHCR operations
Mosquito nets for UNHCR operations in Sudan

113,900
98,000
33,760
6,672
18,961
17,942
24,957
38,100
2,207,356
30,954
2,763,517
558,976
175,390
61,963
39,490
60,256
10,239
82,745
23,629
63,735
65,000
211,500
1,235,500
70,277
180,926
6,757,746
1,906,304
20,777
1,879,000
50,600
297,950
100,500
418,191
45,500
68,496
12,405
2,553,385
168,300
1,067,190
103,521
30,380
147,382
325,000
1,262,500
2,761,500
3,727,014
8,500
1,015,399

Educate A Child (EAC) Programme - Education
Above All (EAA) Foundation
FAST RETAILING (UNIQLO)
Henley & Partners Holdings PLC
IKEA Foundation

EUROPE
FRANCE

KUWAIT

Fondation BNP Paribas

Alghanim Industries

Fondation Sanofi Espoir

GERMANY
PUMA SE

ITALY

Lee Han Shih

Fondazione Dieci Trust Onlus

Rahmatan Lil Alamin Foundation

Fondazione Prosolidar-Onlus

Tadashi Yanai
Tahir Foundation

Intesa Sanpaolo
Missionarie del Sacro Cuore di Gesù
Nando Peretti Foundation

THE AMERICAS

Sheikh Thani Bin Abdullah Foundation

SAUDI ARABIA
Al Dabbagh Group
International Islamic Relief Organization
Tamer Family Foundation

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

NETHERLANDS

Abu Dhabi Islamic Bank

Dutch Postcode Lottery

Falcon Trading Group

UN Fund for International Partnerships
United Nations Foundation

Jassim and Hamad Bin Jassim Charity
Foundation

UNIPOL Gruppo Finanziario S.p.A

The JMCMRJ Sorrell Foundation
The Silent Foundation

QATAR

Qatar Charity

International Olympic Committee

RUSSING Group

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

HRH Princess Haya Bint Al Hussein

SPAIN/ESPAÑA CON ACNUR
Fundación la Caixa

MBC Al Amal
The Big Heart Foundation

SWEDEN/SVERIGE FÖR UNHCR
H&M Foundation

CANADA

Lindex AB

Morneau Shepell

Svenska Postkodlotteriet

The Flanagan Foundation

SWITZERLAND

MEXICO

Krueger Foundation

AGRORESERVAS, S.C.

UNITED KINGDOM

USA/USA FOR UNHCR

Asfari Foundation

Google

Goldman Sachs Gives (GSG)

The Church of Latter-day Saints

GSK

TOMS Shoes LLC

Said Foundation

UPS Corporate

The Hands Up Foundation
Vodafone Foundation

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
JAPAN/JAPAN ASSOCIATION
FOR UNHCR
Fuji Optical Co Limited
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ

THAILAND
Vimuttayalaya Institute

32,921,287

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 57

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

POPULATIONS OF CONCERN
TO UNHCR

NORTHERN,
WESTERN,
CENTRAL
AND SOUTHERN
EUROPE

By the end of 2017, the total population of concern to UNHCR stood at 71.4 million people. This included people who have been
forcibly displaced (refugees, asylum-seekers, and internally displaced people) and those who have found a durable solution (returnees),
as well as stateless persons, most of whom have never been forcibly displaced. Therefore, this categorization is different from that of
forcibly displaced people worldwide, and which is used in the Global Trends report. That figure includes refugees and other displaced
people not covered by UNHCR’s mandate, and excludes other categories such as returnees and non-displaced stateless persons.

EASTERN EUROPE

CENTRAL ASIA

SOUTH-EASTERN
EUROPE
MIDDLE EAST

SOUTH-WEST
ASIA

NORTH AMERICA
AND THE CARIBBEAN

EAST ASIA
AND THE PACIFIC

NORTH AFRICA
15,000,000

SOUTH
ASIA

WEST
AFRICA

5,000,000

EAST
AND HORN
OF AFRICA

500,000
Population size

SOUTH-EAST
ASIA

LATIN
AMERICA

CENTRAL
AFRICA AND THE
GREAT LAKES

Refugees
Asylum-seekers
Returnees (refugees and IDPs)

SOUTHERN
AFRICA

Stateless persons
Internally displaced people (IDPs)
Others of concern

[A S OF EN D OF DECEM B ER 2017 ]
Sub-region

Refugees

Persons in
refugee-like
situations (1)

Central Africa and the Great Lakes
East and Horn of Africa
West Africa
Southern Africa
North Africa
Middle East
South-West Asia
Central Asia
South Asia
South-East Asia
East Asia and the Pacific
Eastern Europe
South-Eastern Europe
Northern, Western, Central and
Southern Europe
North America and the
Caribbean
Latin America
TOTAL

1,444,034
4,307,820
286,919
197,722
393,122
2,260,595
2,448,506
3,518
219,439
1,099,895
382,633
3,618,198
34,868

31,709
26,000
25,226
51,159
4,581
15,187
4,415

1,475,743
4,307,820
286,919
197,722
419,122
2,285,821
2,448,506
3,518
219,439
1,151,054
387,214
3,633,385
39,283

1,336,023
3,769,619
286,676
87,441
345,117
2,115,502
1,515,387
3,382
35,493
1,095,607
699
1,210,787
16,451

62,430
148,600
15,798
281,966
101,474
133,360
3,798
754
11,299
54,042
90,026
318,385
1,061

167,378
56,667
296,189
6,287
78,086
60,568
1
1,586
2
13
399

IDPs
protected/
assisted
by UNHCR (3)
5,426,857
7,196,092
1,873,617
15,128
180,937
10,780,055
2,011,433
39,322
665,051
2,690,888
316,027

2,435,552

6,054

2,441,606

24,749

989,182

-

392,996

-

392,996

1,066

701,455

91,265
19,617,082

159,934
324,265

251,199
19,941,347

49,502
11,893,501

177,268
3,090,898

58 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Total
refugees

of whom
assisted
by UNHCR

Asylumseekers

Returned
refugees (2)

Returned
IDPs (4)

Stateless
persons

Various (5)

TOTAL
POPULATION
OF CONCERN

378,316
387,056
410,887
149,883
2 268,772
314,289
408
319,167
193

974
18,500
692,115
370,872
108,899
2,102,950*
851
133,080
10,288

175,107
293,750
15,362
25,924
1
15,436
448,032
2
625
80,180
5
71,348

7,686,805
12,408,485
3,590,887
527,027
851,417
15,932,402
5,286,626
113,174
272,679
3,314,667
478,096
6,775,751
438,599

-

-

408,971

6,008

3,845,767

2

-

-

6,092

2,794

1,103,339

203
667,381

7,923,109
39,118,516

4,228,971

391
3,853,983*

461,615
1,596,189

8,813,785
71,439,506

The data are generally provided by governments, based on their own definitions and
methods of data collection. A dash ("-") indicates that the value is zero, not available
or not applicable. All data are provisional and subject to change. More information
on people of concern to UNHCR in 2017, including statistical trends and changes of
global displacement during the year, can be found in the “2017 Global Trends” report.

(1)

Includes groups of persons who are
outside their country or territory of origin
and who face protection risks similar to
those of refugees, but for whom refugee
status has, for practical or other reasons,
not been ascertained.

(2)
Includes refugees who have returned
to their place of origin during 2017.

Source: country of origin and asylum.

(3)
Includes IDPs who are in IDP-like
situations.
(4)

Includes IDPs protected/assisted by
UNHCR who have returned to their place of
origin during 2017.

(5)
People of concern to UNHCR not
included in the previous columns but to
whom UNHCR may extend its protection
and/or assistance.

* The stateless population includes 932,204 Myanmar refugees in Bangladesh and
125,575 stateless IDPs in Myanmar who are also counted in refugee and IDP populations.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 59

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

FOREWORD
Africa still hosts the largest number of
displaced people worldwide. In 2017, some
24.2 million people in Africa were forced to
flee as the result of conflict, persecution, other
human rights abuses and food insecurity. Few
political solutions were in sight.

Africa

The crisis in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (DRC) was of particular concern, with
renewed unrest triggering displacement
on an extraordinary scale. Conflicts in both
the Central African Republic (CAR) and
South Sudan entered their fifth year while
Cameroon, Mali, and the border regions
of Burkina Faso and Niger were wracked
by fighting, pushing even more people
away from their homes. Burundi remained
volatile with continued outflows of people
to Rwanda and the United Republic of
Tanzania. Finding solutions and providing
protection to refugees and asylum‑seekers
in mixed movements was a pressing priority.
Compounding these complex emergencies
were challenges related to climate
change, which threatened the food
security of vulnerable refugees and their
host communities across the continent;
and increased reports of sexual and
gender‑based violence (SGBV), which
highlighted the significant challenges
faced by a particularly vulnerable sector
of an already traumatized population.
Urgently‑needed humanitarian assistance
and protection often could not be delivered
sustainably and predictably because
of constraints on access, insecurity
and underfunding. Allegations of fraud,
misconduct and exploitation surfaced
in several operations in Africa, leading
to thorough investigations and remedial
actions by UNHCR and the countries
involved. This was matched by measures to
enhance accountability and transparency
and to strengthen protection responses for
people of concern.
© UNHCR/Georgina Goodwin

60 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT
REPORT 2017
2017

Burundian refugee schoolchildren study outside
at Furaha Primary School in Nduta camp, United
Republic of Tanzania. At Furaha there are no
classrooms, the children study in groups under
trees. Benches have only recently been built. Before,
students sat on the ground.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 61

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

The number of people fleeing rose sharply
and their needs were significant and
widespread, but there were moments of
hope. Several forward‑looking African
countries embraced the Comprehensive
Refugee Response Framework (CRRF).
UNHCR’s advocacy helped advance crucial
legislative reform to resolve statelessness,
and to assist with the inclusion of refugees
within national plans and systems in areas
including education, health and labour market
participation. UNHCR assisted voluntary
repatriation to Somalia from Djibouti, Kenya
and Yemen, and to Côte d’Ivoire from Liberia.
A partnership with WFP and other agencies
helped to address food insecurity—and
although malnutrition, stunting and anaemia
remain serious concerns—famine was
averted in the three regions most at risk:
northern Nigeria, Somalia and South Sudan.

MALI
SITUATION

Major refugee‑hosting countries in
Africa, with support from the international
community, led the way in providing aid
and support to people of concern and
their host communities. While maintaining
its emergency assistance responsibilities,
UNHCR spearheaded new approaches to
housing, energy, long‑distance education,
lighting and access to global markets, all
of which eased the hardships faced by
refugees in the region. The Office worked
with local and national governments, private
sector partners, foundations, banks and
international financial institutions to provide
refugees and hosts with greater financial
stability and freedom of choice through cash,
loans, facilitating remittances, better internet
access and telecommunications.

CENTRAL
AFRICAN REPUBLIC
SITUATION

130,000
sought protection
mainly in Burkina Faso,
Mauritania and Niger

38,000

IDPs by year’s end

sought protection
mainly in Cameroon,
Chad and the DRC

sought protection
mainly in Ethiopia,
Kenya, Sudan
and Uganda

688,000

1 million

60,000

47,000

MALI

DJIBOUTI
NIGERIA

UGANDA
KENYA

*

ANGOLA

Africa
24.2 million

BURUNDI

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

REFUGEES

sought protection
mainly in Djibouti,
Ethiopia, Kenya
and Yemen

2.1 million
ZAMBIA

*

IDPs by year’s end

75,000
REFUGEE
RETURNEES

2.4 million

40%

712,000 | 3%
STATELESS

IDPs by year’s end

712,000 | 3%

	 RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
12%

60+

1.7 million | 7%

18-59

IDPs
14.5 MILLION
| 60%

14.5 million | 60%
	 OTHERS OF CONCERN

4%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

59%

0-4

OTHERS CRRF
OF CONCERN
510,000 | 2%
COUNTRY

SITUATIONS

510,000 | 2%

		
		 < 1.5 million 			
		
People of concern

Situation

333 PARTNERS IN AFRICA

4,931 STAFF IN AFRICA

72%

28 %

221

62 %

MALE

LOCATIONS

62 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

900,000

sought protection
mainly in Cameroon,
Chad and Niger

20%

1.7 million | RETURNEES
7%
(refugees & IDPs)

153	 NATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
70		 INTERNATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
107	 GOVERNMENT PARTNERS
3		UN AGENCIES/OTHER PARTNERS

SOMALIA
SITUATION

REFUGEES

509,000 | 2%
ASYLUM-SEEKERS

IDPs

SOMALIA

218,000

Africa
REFUG EES AN D A SY LUM -SEEKERS

| 2%
	 STATELESS509,000
PERSONS

	

*

UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA

NIGERIA
SITUATION

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

34%

ETHIOPIA

CENTRAL
AFRICAN SOUTH SUDAN
REPUBLIC

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN AFRICA

OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION OF
CONCERN

IDPs by year’s end

REFUGEE
RETURNEES

*

6.3 million | 26%
	 ASLYLUM-SEEKERS

2 million

IDPs in 2017 alone

Director of UNHCR’s Regional Bureau for Africa

6.3 MILLION
REFUGEES| 26%

were displaced
in 2017 alone

180,000

REFUGEE
RETURNEES

Valentin Tapsoba

REFUGEES

REFUGEES

IDPs by year’s end

MILLION

	

REFUGEES

REFUGEES

DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF
THE CONGO

	

2.4 million

546,000

REFUGEES

CONGO

	 24.2

SOUTH SUDAN
SITUATION

FEMALE

BASED IN
HARDSHIP LOCATIONS

		
		 1.5 > 3 million
		 People of concern
		
		 3 > 5.5 million
		 People of concern

*

THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE
CONGO SITUATION

685,000
REFUGEES

sought protection in
neighbouring countries

4.5 million
IDPs by year’s end

1.9 million

BURUNDI
SITUATION

430,000
REFUGEES

sought protection
mainly in the DRC,
Rwanda, Uganda and
the United Republic
of Tanzania

175,000

IDPs by year’s end

IDPs in 2017 alone

	 CRRF Countries
New Emergencies

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 63

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

MAJOR SITUATIONS
Burundi situation
In Burundi, security
incidents, political
tension and rising food
insecurity caused the
humanitarian situation to
deteriorate. In addition
to more than
175,000 IDPs inside
Burundi, there were approximately
430,000 Burundian refugees in the DRC,
Rwanda, Uganda, the United Republic of
Tanzania, and other countries in Southern
Africa. The number of Burundians fleeing
their homes more than doubled in 2017,
compared to 2016.
The DRC, Uganda and the United
Republic of Tanzania—which, with
230,000 Burundian refugees, hosted
the largest number—lifted prima facie
refugee status recognition for refugees
and asylum‑seekers from Burundi. The
three countries called for the resumption
of individual refugee status determination
(RSD), sometimes leading to a restrictive
approach to granting asylum or in
congestion at reception centres. Rwanda
hosted some 89,000 refugees from
Burundi, granting them refugee status on
a prima facie basis.
Chronic underfunding of the Burundi
situation severely hampered the
humanitarian response and the quality
of assistance provided to the refugee
population in asylum countries, particularly
in the areas of reception and registration,
child protection and education—more than
50 per cent of the Burundian refugees
are children—measures to combat SGBV,
shelter, and food security. In May 2017, the
Office launched a supplementary appeal for
$250 million, as well as a Regional Refugee
Response Plan (RRRP) in January 2017 for

64 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The Democratic Republic
of the Congo situation

a total requirement of $429.3 million for
the year. The Office led and coordinated
the response to the Burundi refugee
emergency in affected countries, in
close collaboration with the relevant
governments.

Intercommunal conflict
in the Kasai region
displaced thousands of
people within the DRC
and resulting in their
movement to Angola.
Consequently,
UNHCR launched a
supplementary appeal for $102 million in
June 2017 to scale up its response for the
year. A sharp deterioration in the situation
in Kasai, South Kivu and Tanganyika
provinces led to the declaration of an
Inter‑Agency Standing Committee
system‑wide Level‑3 emergency in October
2017. By the end of 2017, some 4.5 million
people were displaced internally—including
1.9 million displaced people in 2017 alone—
and more than 685,000 Congolese
refugees—the majority of them women and
children—were seeking protection in
neighbouring countries. Uganda and
Zambia registered some 47,000 and
17,000 new arrivals respectively in 2017.
UNHCR increased its presence in the DRC
and neighbouring countries, focusing on
protection and lifesaving assistance.

Central African Republic situation
In 2017, more than
47,000 Central Africans
voluntarily returned to
the CAR, but the dire
security situation in the
country led to the
highest level of internal
displacement since the
crisis escalated in 2013. Violent clashes
among armed groups and intercommunal
tensions increased sharply from May 2017,
with conflict spreading to parts of the
country previously unaffected. There
were 546,000 refugees and more than
688,000 IDPs by year’s end. Of these, some
180,000 were newly displaced in 2017.
Nearly one in four families were forced from
their homes. In the north‑west of the
country, a surge in violence sparked the
movement of waves of refugees into
Cameroon, Chad and the DRC, and
humanitarian workers and United Nations
peacekeepers were targeted by armed
groups. CAR was among the most
poorly‑funded emergencies in the world in
2017, and this shortage of resources limited
UNHCR’s ability to provide protection, food
and shelter to people of concern.

© UNHCR/Rahima Gambo

The Burundi
situation was one
of the six most
underfunded
situations globally
in 2017.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

Mali situation
The volatile security
situation in the northern
and central parts of Mali,
as well as insecurity in
border areas, prompted
neighbouring countries
to introduce additional
security measures.
At the end of 2017, there were around
38,000 Malian IDPs, and more than
130,000 Malians were refugees in Burkina
Faso, Mauritania and Niger. More than
60,000 Malian refugees returned home in
2017. UNHCR strengthened its efforts to
ensure such spontaneous returns were
sustainable.

Nigeria situation
Five years into the crisis
in north‑eastern Nigeria,
there were 218,000 
Nigerian refugees in
Cameroon, Chad and
Niger. The conflict also
resulted in the internal
displacement of more
than 2.4 million IDPs: most were in Nigeria,
with others in Cameroon, Chad and Niger.

Nigeria’s Nansen Award winner offers
lifeline to women widowed by Boko
Haram conflict

Hamzatu Amodu Buba is a widow with four children.
Her husband was shot and killed by Boko Haram in 2013.
She is now a member of the Future Prowess Widows
Association.

Hamzatu Amodu Buba was expecting her brother-in-law’s
wedding to be a joyous occasion. Instead, it almost ruined her
life. Insurgents from Boko Haram, who had brought turmoil to
much of north-east Nigeria in recent years, had blocked the
road between two villages. Her husband, Usman, a primary
school teacher, was pulled out of the car. “They asked him for ID,
but he did not have it, they just shot him dead. They took the car
and drove off, leaving me and two wives of other
brothers on the side of the road,” she said. Hamzatu
was four months pregnant. “It was baking hot, and
we thought we might die.”

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 65

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

The crisis in the Lake Chad basin dominated
the humanitarian and protection situation
in the sub‑region, with insurgency and
counter‑insurgency operations across
the Sahel generating severe insecurity
and complex, overlapping population
movements in border areas of Chad, Mali,
Niger, and Nigeria. In July 2017, UNHCR
launched a revised supplementary appeal
for $179 million as well as an RRRP for
$241 million in January 2017 for the year.

South Sudan situation

© UNHCR/Rahima Gambo

The security situation
in South Sudan
remained volatile with
an agreement on
cessation of hostilities
made between the
Government and
opposition leaders in
December 2017 lasting only a few hours.
The conflict in South Sudan displaced
1 million more refugees in 2017. By the
end of the year, more than a third of its
estimated 12 million citizens were displaced,
creating nearly 2 million IDPs and
approximately 2.4 million refugees.

Zannah Mustapha, winner of the UNHCR
Nansen Refugee Award

There were 1 million South Sudanese
refugees in Uganda, with Sudan and
Ethiopia each hosting more than
800,000 and 400,000 South Sudanese
refugees respectively and Kenya hosting
some 112,000 South Sudanese. In May 2017,
UNHCR launched a revised supplementary
appeal for $883 million as well as an RRRP
in January 2017 for $1.3 billion for the year.
UNHCR coordinated a large‑scale refugee
response across the sub‑region through the
regional refugee response plan and led the
IDP protection and camp coordination and
camp management clusters.

The UNHCR Nansen Refugee Award was established in 1954
to acknowledge individuals, groups and organizations
working to improve life for displaced people. The
award is named after Fridtjof Nansen, the first High
Commissioner for Refugees for the League of Nations.

Mr Mustapha and the students of Future
Prowess Islamic Foundation School before
morning assembly, Maiduguri, Borno State,
Nigeria.

In 2017, Zannah Mustapha—a lawyer, school founder
and peace-maker from Nigeria—won the award in recognition of the
school he founded for orphans and vulnerable children a decade
earlier in Maiduguri, the epicentre of the Boko Haram insurgency.
As part of his award, Mr Mustapha received $150,000 in funding to be
used on a project of his choice. Mr Mustapha chose to use this money
to continue providing educational opportunities for
young people in his community. He is also establishing a
psychosocial support programme that will reach not just
his students, but also women who have been widowed
as a result of the Boko Haram insurgency.

Somalia situation

66 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

© UNHCR/Diana Diaz

75,000
Somali refugees
voluntarily
returned to their
country since
December 2014.

The security situation
in Somalia remained
precarious, with severe
drought continuing
mainly in the southern
and central regions,
including in areas of
return. More than
900,000 Somali refugees were living in
camps in Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, and
Yemen, with around 2.1 million IDPs
displaced by conflict and drought. To scale
up its response, UNHCR launched a

supplementary appeal in May 2017 for
$487 million. The Office continued assisting
voluntary repatriation despite violence, food
insecurity and limited absorption capacity
in return areas. Since December 2014, when
UNHCR started supporting the voluntary
return of Somali refugees in Kenya, some
75,000 Somali refugees had voluntarily
returned to their country. In 2017, UNHCR
assisted 35,000 Somali refugees to
return under the voluntary repatriation
programme. The majority were refugees
repatriated from the Dadaab refugee
complex in Kenya.

© UNHCR/ Kgothatso Manale

In Nigeria, there were reports of significant
self‑organized returns in 2017. UNHCR
had not facilitated voluntary repatriation
in neighbouring countries of asylum given
the prevailing conditions. While returns
were spontaneous in most cases, there
were confirmed cases of refoulement from
Cameroon, despite the Office’s advocacy
efforts and the commitments made under
the framework of tripartite agreements. In
March 2017, the Governments of Cameroon
and Nigeria signed a tripartite agreement
with UNHCR on the voluntary repatriation
of Nigerian refugees.

A tripartite
agreement was
signed by the
Governments
of Cameroon
and Nigeria
with UNHCR on
the voluntary
repatriation
of Nigerian
refugees.

LuQuLuQu campaign celebrity supporters
drawn from media, music and the arts, attending
the launch in Johannesburg.

LuQuLuQu campaign boosts collective
efforts to support refugees in Africa
In October 2017, UNHCR’s Private Sector
Partnerships launched the “LuQuLuQu”
campaign in Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya and
South Africa. This integrated public engagement
and fundraising campaign drew upon a long
tradition of welcome and hospitality in the
African region. The campaign, led by African
celebrities, used a range of channels to collect
mobile money. The celebrities’ combined social
media following reached audiences of more
than 20 million, prompting public conversations
about the challenges facing
refugees and generating support
and donations from Africa’s private
sector for forcibly displaced
communities.

Goodwill Ambassador support
High profile supporters lent their talents to a variety of
initiatives in the Africa region in 2017. Musicians Betty G,
and Christine and the Queens helped to highlight the daily challenges
facing refugees in Ethiopia and Uganda respectively. To mark the
sobering milestone of the millionth South Sudanese refugee entering
Uganda, slam poet Emi Mahmoud performed Head Over Heels, an
original piece that received international press coverage.
UNHCR high profile supporter Betty G
meets Sudanese refugee Medu Amdan
in Ethiopia.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 67

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

Rwanda initiated
discussions
with UNHCR on
the application
of the CRRF.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT

Promoting a favourable
protection environment

Across Africa, countries continued to
demonstrate their commitment to improving
the lives of refugees, asylum‑seekers,
stateless persons and IDPs. UNHCR sought
to protect the most vulnerable from abuse
and exploitation, reduce the vulnerability
of displaced families, support the voluntary
return of refugees where appropriate,
and undertake measures to eradicate
statelessness.

UNHCR helped governments ensure
asylum‑seekers had access to territory
and fair asylum procedures. The
Office advocated fair and efficient RSD
procedures, and ensured greater safety
and security for refugees through improved
registration and documentation processes.
Such efforts were particularly important for
the well-being of Burundian refugees who
were no longer granted refugee status on
a prima facie basis in the DRC, Uganda and
the United Republic of Tanzania. In addition,
the Office continued to enhance protection
of people of concern through efforts to
prevent and respond to SGBV.

Working with partners to apply the CRRF
remained a UNHCR priority. Countries in
Africa showed commitment to implementing
the New York Declaration for Refugees and
Migrants. Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia,
Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania
and Zambia each took action to implement
the CRRF in 2017, while Rwanda initiated
discussions with UNHCR on the application
of the framework.

© UNHCR/Catherine Wachiaya

The rolling-out by African countries of
the CRRF delivered concrete results.
Uganda remained committed to an
open‑door policy, allowing freedom of
movement and of work, and providing
refugees with accommodation and plots of
land for farming. Djibouti adopted a new law
enhancing refugees’ access to education,
employment and eventual naturalization.
Ethiopia took legislative steps towards
universal birth registration and providing
refugees with access to civil documentation.

The Office strengthened protection
activities by rolling out its biometric identity
management system (BIMS) at several
sites across the region. By the year’s end,
UNHCR had completed the biometric
registration of 1,120 refugees in Chad’s
Dar es Salaam camp and 39,200 Central
African refugees in the DRC’s Ubangi
province and had started registering all
Burundian refugees in Lusenda camp
in South Kivu province. In Ethiopia, a
country‑wide roll‑out of BIMS began in
July 2017. In Niger, UNHCR registered
56,900 Malian refugees. The second phase
of biometric registration for displaced
people living outside camps in the Diffa
region started in November 2017.

Increased mixed movements from the East
and Horn of Africa, and from West Africa
through the central Mediterranean route
to Europe, prompted UNHCR to develop
a three‑pronged strategy focused on
countries of origin, transit and destination.
In sub‑Saharan Africa, UNHCR raised
awareness of the risks related to irregular
migration, smuggling and trafficking through
information campaigns. The Office mitigated
protection risks along heavily trafficked
routes and identified solutions for people
on the move. In Burkina Faso, the Office
provided vocational training to youth, who
were most prone to onward movement.
Around 600 young people—60 per cent
refugees and 40 per cent youth from
the host community—participated in this
programme. (For more information on the
central Mediterranean route, please
see the chapter on Safeguarding
fundamental rights).

UNHCR and the Global Partnership for
Education expanded efforts to ensure
refugees were included in national
multi‑year educational plans (see the
chapter on Building Better Futures). In 2017,
these efforts were expanded to Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Chad, the DRC, Ethiopia,
Liberia, Mali, South Sudan and the United
Republic of Tanzania.

Increased mixed
movements
through
the central
Mediterranean
route prompted
UNHCR to
develop a
three-pronged
strategy.

With the Vodafone Foundation, the Office
used information technology to establish
Instant Network Schools in the DRC,
Ethiopia, Kenya, South Sudan and the
United Republic of Tanzania. In Chad,
the Office worked with the authorities to
facilitate a transition from the Sudanese to
the Chadian Arabic curriculum for Sudanese
refugees. UNHCR also worked with the
Ministry of Education in the DRC to ensure
local schools received the support they
needed to include refugees from Burundi,
as well as other displaced children.

Innovation transforms education
for refugee students in Africa

Students from Mogadishu primary
school in Kakuma, Kenya, are excited
to use tablets from the Instant Network
Schools project.

68 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Improving access to
quality education

The Instant Network Schools programme, established in partnership
with the Vodafone Foundation, is helping millions of refugee students
across Africa to catch up on their education. Tablet computers and
mobile networks are bringing the latest in online learning to students
in refugee camps, and it’s firing their enthusiasm. The programme
has been taken up by 31 centres in four countries in the region:
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, South Sudan
and the United Republic of Tanzania.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 69

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

Addressing food insecurity
Food insecurity and severe malnutrition
continued to affect large swathes of the
region. The risk of famine in north‑eastern
Nigeria and severe food shortages
throughout the sub‑region affected
approximately 7 million people, which
included a significant number of people
of concern to UNHCR. By the September
harvests, however, the situation in
north‑eastern Nigeria had improved as
humanitarian assistance increased and
the price of staple foods fell.
Somalia was on the brink of famine at the
beginning of 2017, but sustained prevention
efforts throughout the year lowered that risk.

© Plan International

However, a state of famine was declared
in parts of South Sudan’s Unity State in
February 2017. Other areas of the country
also faced severe food shortages as the
harvest season began, with 56 per cent of
the population estimated to be severely food
insecure. The situation slightly improved in
late 2017 following large‑scale humanitarian
assistance and harvests, but almost half of the
population faced food shortages as the year
ended.

Gur Deng Kuarbang, a refugee from South
Sudan, listens to his sister reading a book in Kule
Camp, Ethiopia. The “We love reading” project is
designed to decrease stress and provide much
needed psycho-social support.

Ethiopia loves reading!
UNHCR’s “We love reading” campaign was
launched in Ethiopia’s Gambella region to
develop a culture of literacy among children.
The region hosts more than 300,000 South
Sudanese refugees, most of whom are children.
The Office’s award-winning campaign has also
empowered refugee women
in resource-limited settings to
become community leaders and
most went on to start libraries.

70 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Funding shortfalls resulted in cuts to food
assistance, affecting 2 million refugees across
Cameroon, Chad, the DRC, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Rwanda, South Sudan, the United Republic of
Tanzania and Zambia. Of the 94 refugee sites
surveyed in the Africa region, 20 per cent had
a global acute malnutrition prevalence above
emergency thresholds. UNHCR had to reduce
basic aid in many operations, including those
hit by WFP food cuts. As a response, the
Office increasingly provided multi‑purpose
cash to people of concern.
The number of operations affected by cuts
to WFP food assistance continued to grow
throughout 2017. Cuts to food assistance are

© UNHCR/Colin Delfosse

In August 2017, UNHCR and the Djibouti
Ministry of Education and Vocational
Training signed a memorandum of
understanding giving refugee children
access to the same quality of education
as Djiboutian children. Member States
of the Intergovernmental Authority on
Development (IGAD) convened a regional
conference on refugee education in
Djibouti in December 2017, a first of its kind
globally. At this meeting, broad consensus
was reached that by 2020, Member
States would aim to have harmonized
education standards for refugees and
host communities, and included education
for refugees and returnees in national
development plans.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

Cash for protection
In Africa, UNHCR employed cash-based
interventions (CBIs) most often in Kenya and
Somalia during 2017. Around 75,000 people of
concern received cash, many of whom were Somali
refugee returnees. In Somalia, the Office worked
with private sector partners to enable returnees
from Kenya in receipt of cash assistance to open
bank accounts.

South Sudanese refugees queue for cash
distributions in Meri, Haut-Uele province of the
DRC. Families receive monthly cash grants from
WFP in partnership with UNHCR.

In the DRC, UNHCR delivered $850,000 in cash grants,
benefiting around 10,000 refugee, internally displaced
and returnee households. In the Kasai region,
3,000 households received multi-purpose cash grants,
while 200 displaced and refugee households used
cash support for shelter reconstruction.

CBIs were also a protection tool in the Republic of the Congo and the DRC, where survivors
and people at risk of SGBV received cash assistance, counselling and livelihood support.
In Kenya and South Africa, cash assistance helped vulnerable people, while in Ethiopia and
Sudan cash assistance covered the basic needs of unaccompanied children.

concerning as they exacerbate food insecurity
while increasing protection risks as refugees
are forced into negative coping behaviours
to cover their basic needs. Households
faced with food insecurity often change
their behaviours to increase their access to
food while prioritizing food for children. An
evaluation of UNHCR’s nutrition programme
in Chad in 2017 highlighted serious concerns
associated with the decrease in food
assistance, including out migration in search
for work including in places such as Libya,
an increase in SGBV, transactional sex for
survival (found across all age groups), and
forced/child marriage. Reports from Rwanda
indicate similar protection concerns in
that country. Given that gaps in assistance
exist across several African countries, the
protection risks and concerns found in both
Chad and Rwanda are very likely to have
been realized elsewhere.

Pursuing durable solutions
The comprehensive solutions strategy for
the Rwandan refugee situation formally
ended in December 2017. Approximately
19,000 Rwandans were repatriated during
the year, mainly from the DRC. However,
some 250,000 Rwandan refugees and
former refugees remained outside their
country of origin.
Despite drought, food insecurity, conflict
and a lack of services in Somalia, around
35,000 Somali refugees returned home
from Kenya in 2017. UNHCR assisted
8,200 Ivorian refugees from Liberia to
return. While UNHCR did not promote
voluntary returns to Burundi, the Office
worked to ensure the return of a small
number of Burundian refugees from the
DRC was voluntary, informed and took
place in safety and dignity. It also supported
approximately 13,000 Burundian refugees
in the United Republic of Tanzania who
expressed an intention to return home.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 71

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

In the CAR, the Office facilitated the return
of around 1,500 Sudanese refugees and
nearly 1,000 Chadians and, mid‑year,
UNHCR and the Governments of Chad and
Sudan signed a tripartite agreement that
paved the way for the Office to support
further voluntary repatriation of Chadians.
There were fewer resettlement places
available globally. UNHCR submitted
resettlement requests for 22,000 refugees
in Africa, around half (51 per cent) the
number submitted in 2016. Approximately
16,000 refugees were resettled from the
region during the year, including more than
7,000 refugees from the DRC who were
living in host countries, mainly in the Great
Lakes sub‑region.
Guinea‑Bissau, despite its lack of resources,
granted citizenship to the estimated
7,000 refugees who had been living there in
a protracted situation.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

approach the Somali Government and its
neighbours were taking in applying the
CRRF to Somali refugees. The International
Development Association (IDA) is part of the
World Bank Group and is focused on helping
the world’s poorest countries. In December
2016, agreement was reached with donors
and other partners on IDA priorities for the
period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2020. An
agreed priority was the establishment of a
dedicated source of funding for significant
refugee‑hosting countries. This new funding
priority is anticipated to result in the flow
of an expected $2 billion via concessional
loans and grants to help these countries
meet the needs of both refugees and local
communities. By the end of 2017, eight
eligible countries had been identified
as possible beneficiaries of this scheme
seven of which were in the Africa region:
Cameroon, Chad, the Republic of the Congo,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Niger and Uganda.

IGAD played an essential convening role
during the development of the Nairobi
Declaration on Durable Solutions for Somali
Refugees and Reintegration of Returnees in
Somalia. IGAD also supported the regional

Dollo Ado: from humanitarian assistance to sustainable livelihoods
A UNHCR and IKEA Foundation project in Dollo Ado, Ethiopia, supported Somali refugees to progressively move
away from assistance to self‑reliance and, ultimately, increase overall prosperity in the region, by diversifying
livelihood opportunities for both the refugee and host community. The project benefited from joint planning
with local and national authorities, NGO partners, as well as from the strong involvement of IKEA
Foundation mobilizing networks, and supporting advocacy. Dollo Ado offers valuable lessons for the
CRRF, particularly on the importance of multi‑sectoral, “whole‑of‑society” approaches and the added
value of the private sector.

72 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Working towards ending
statelessness
In 2017, UNHCR and Kenyan NGO, Haki
Centre, advocated for the issuing of birth
certificates to children of the estimated
4,000 stateless persons in Pemba, Kenya.
As a result, more than 11,000 children in
that community had their births registered.
The Government of Kenya also granted
nationality to 1,200 Makonde, originally
from Mozambique, who settled in Kenya in
the 1930s, officially becoming Kenya’s
“43rd tribe” (see the chapter on Safeguarding
fundamental rights).
In August 2017, Mali brought in a national
plan on ending statelessness, becoming the
fourth country in West Africa to do so.
UNHCR organized a training session in
Senegal on statelessness and the right to
a nationality. African Portuguese‑speaking
government officials and civil society
organizations came from Angola, Brazil,
Cape Verde, Guinea Bissau and from
ECOWAS to share good practices and
lessons learned from different regional
initiatives to eradicate statelessness in
Africa and the Americas.

CONSTRAINTS
Conflict was the primary driver of
displacement in Africa, with insecurity
impeding humanitarian access and making
it difficult for UNHCR to maintain protection
space. The Office’s staff remained at risk of
security incidents, particularly in the volatile
regions of Somalia, South Sudan, and
Central and West Africa.
Insufficient access to affordable, nutritious
food continued to result in displacement
and increased the vulnerability of people
of concern. Nigeria, Somalia and South
Sudan, in particular, experienced persistent
drought, which exacerbated food insecurity
and displacement.
In 2017, UNHCR could only secure places
for less than one‑third of the planned
resettlement candidates in Africa due to a
significant reduction in resettlement places
made available globally.

Representatives of African Union Member
States convened in Mauritius in September
2017 to review the draft Protocol to the
African Charter on Human and Peoples’
Rights on the Specific Aspects on the
Right to a Nationality and the Eradication
of Statelessness in Africa. The eventual
adoption of this protocol will mark a
significant milestone in gaining increased
governments’ commitment to resolving
statelessness in the region.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 73

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA 2013-2017 | USD

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Budget
•	 ExCom revised budget: $2.336
•	 Final budget: $2.925

1,600

billion.

1,400

billion.

•	 Budget increase: $589 million / +25% due to large and unforeseen influxes of South
Sudanese into neighbouring countries, especially into Uganda, as well as new influxes
of Congolese into Angola and Zambia along with additional needs for the Somalis,
Nigerians and Burundians.

1,200
1,000
800

•	 Largest budget ever for Africa.

Pillar 1

600

Pillar 2
Pillar 3

400

Pillar 4

Expenditure
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

139,060
157,875
785,673
218,610
35,073
11,120
21,192
21,470

10.0%
11.4%
56.5%
15.7%
2.5%
0.8%
1.5%
1.5%

50%
100%
36%
34%
9%
34%
11%
17%

1,390,074

100%

34%

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked
Unearmarked
In-kind
-

TOTAL

Millions

200
As % of
expenditure
within the region

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

2017 EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD
$1.390 billion
EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD
$1.390 billion

•	 Funding gap: 52%.
•	 High concentration of tightly earmarked funding: 67% of regional expenditure.

PILLAR 1
$1.214 billion | 87%

•	 All the unearmarked carry-over was allocated to Africa.

PILLAR 2
$9.3 million | 1%

•	 Funding shortfalls affected all activities, resulting in reduction of basic services
particularly in health, education and potable water, reductions in protection monitoring,
livelihood assistance, IDP response, and inability to address food deficits, contingency
planning and preparedness.

PILLAR 3
$63.8 million | 5%

74 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

34%

OF GLOBAL
EXPENDITURE

PILLAR 4
$103.5 million | 7%

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 75

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN AFRICA | USD

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

WEST AFRICA
Burkina Faso

Budget
Expenditure

Côte d'Ivoire

Budget
Expenditure

Ghana

Budget

Guinea

Budget

Liberia

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Mali

Budget

Niger

Budget

Nigeria

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Senegal Regional Office1

Budget
Expenditure

OPERATION

TOTAL

24,274,911
16,555,959
7,033,839
5,023,923
8,878,867
5,392,500
4,471,017
2,102,967
16,194,818
9,818,855
13,625,052
5,730,302
73,066,991
28,969,805
5,942,897
2,468,614
29,209,452
18,303,064

510,537
327,405
4,158,830
1,913,883
956,948
754,385
685,411
340,865
2,107,714
1,531,862

9,065,779
3,902,461
25,280,187
6,394,146
30,235,482
15,801,339
-

1,145,345
467,947
8,796,830
6,980,126
43,588,668
12,343,061
-

24,785,448
16,883,364
20,258,448
10,840,267
8,878,867
5,392,500
4,471,017
2,102,967
16,194,818
9,818,855
41,007,532
13,346,781
82,549,232
36,290,796
79,767,048
30,613,014
31,317,166
19,834,927

182,697,844

8,419,440

64,581,448

53,530,843

309,229,576

94,365,988

4,868,402

26,097,946

19,791,134

145,123,470

CENTRAL AFRICA AND THE GREAT LAKES
Burundi

Budget
Expenditure

Cameroon

Budget

Central African Republic

Budget

Congo, Republic of the

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Regional Office2

Budget

Rwanda

Budget

United Republic of Tanzania

Budget

Budget
Expenditure

Djibouti

Budget
Expenditure

Eritrea

Budget
Expenditure

Ethiopia

Budget
Expenditure

Ethiopia UNHCR Representation
to the AU and ECA

Budget

Kenya

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure

Kenya Regional Support Hub

Budget
Expenditure

Somalia

Budget
Expenditure

South Sudan

Budget

Sudan

Budget

Uganda

Budget

Regional activities

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

76 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

161,304,068
73,929,387
31,805,057
12,071,265
3,899,094
3,728,254
330,548,039
144,928,371
2,205,453
1,342,781
229,378,159
120,552,867
7,017,371
5,187,066
55,025,162
43,417,077
130,874,080
105,186,688
167,478,836
83,952,941
550,908,265
204,671,490
2,963,520
678,652

991,739
331,092
910,184
494,468
1,495,492
838,054
2,483,936
984,643
200,000
17,628
-

23,493,230
17,823,404
6,313,447
-

1,673,407,105
799,646,839

6,081,350
2,665,885

29,806,677
17,823,404

2,850,000
1,008,643
39,561,426
15,847,792
39,303,047
25,870,226
25,980,814
5,125,096
-

165,145,807
75,269,122
31,805,057
12,071,265
3,899,094
3,728,254
330,548,039
144,928,371
2,205,453
1,342,781
230,288,343
121,047,335
7,017,371
5,187,066
118,079,819
77,088,273
171,672,619
131,894,967
202,257,032
90,062,679
551,108,265
204,689,118
2,963,520
678,652

29,424,410
17,787,060
87,796,062
46,556,430
24,291,641
14,648,089
26,232,864
9,834,634
136,711,626
65,134,141
96,813,087
38,241,652
126,701,666
61,884,182

7,075
1,148,504
310,502
1,948,898
480,650
-

14,762,565
7,620,080
29,873,246
3,797,061
7,565,094
3,893,375
10,431,514
4,582,549

4,384,051
1,815,443
5,300,263
1,554,161
14,030,232
10,864,000
2,409,803
2,377,347
65,779,128
19,205,674
-

33,815,536
19,602,503
94,244,829
48,421,093
53,084,438
33,132,170
28,642,667
12,211,982
234,312,899
88,617,526
104,378,181
42,135,027
137,133,180
66,466,731

527,971,356
254,086,189

3,104,477
791,153

62,632,419
19,893,064

91,903,478
35,816,625

685,611,730
310,587,030

36,642,183
19,442,005
3,076,320
1,874,740
18,118,080
6,878,982
5,397,322
3,237,076
24,518,777
15,281,528
13,609,910
11,873,961
10,525,885
6,838,357

125,626
16,892
922,109
695,838
432,094
236,206

-

-

36,642,183
19,442,005
3,076,320
1,874,740
18,118,080
6,878,982
5,522,948
3,253,968
25,440,886
15,977,366
13,609,910
11,873,961
10,957,979
7,074,563

111,888,477
65,426,650

1,479,829
948,936

-

-

113,368,306
66,375,585

2,495,964,781
1,213,525,666

19,085,097
9,274,374

157,020,545
63,814,415

SOUTHERN AFRICA
Budget
Expenditure
Botswana

Budget

Malawi

Budget

Mozambique

Budget

South Africa Regional Office

Budget

Zambia

Budget

Zimbabwe

Budget

Expenditure

EAST AND HORN OF AFRICA
Chad

Budget
Expenditure

Angola
SUBTOTAL

TOTAL

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL
1
2

Budget
Expenditure

253,129,608 2,925,200,031
103,459,516 1,390,073,970

Includes activities in Benin, Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Togo.						
Coordinates activities in Gabon and the DRC. 						

107,695,287 1,816,990,419
47,851,756 867,987,884

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 77

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A F R I C A

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO AFRICA | USD

DONOR
United States of America
Germany
European Union
Japan
United Kingdom
Central Emergency Response Fund

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO AFRICA | USD

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

130,466,544
27,727,694
54,675,106
32,516,831
34,590,798
19,907,540

2,536,137
9,472,709
1,629,586

8,007,000
1,693,647
5,784,887
3,727,504

Private Donors in Qatar
Sweden
Private Donors in the Netherlands
France
Private Donors in Germany
Denmark
Private Donors in the United States of America
Republic of Korea
Netherlands
Private Donors in Japan
Belgium
Ireland
Switzerland

11,796,251
12,807,861
2,076,667
12,423,173
5,924,066
396,801
9,385,299
5,169,296
3,620,978
7,642,234
5,797,170
2,522,397
4,818,510
6,100,823

19,445,047
2,000,446
583,363
300,000
97,357
18,216

155,365

349,625
3,691,003

Italy
Country-based pooled funds
Private Donors in Spain
Austria
China
Private Donors in Australia
Saudi Arabia

United Arab Emirates
United Nations Development Programme
United Nations Children’s Fund
Spain
United Nations Peacebuilding Fund
Private Donors in the United Arab Emirates
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
Private Donors in Italy
Intergovernmental Authority on Development

6,011,104
5,145,414
3,494,654
1,679,035
1,487,700
1,802,885
2,000,000
1,852,697
2,404,000

285,830

124,274

291,946
2,346,881
1,695,918
1,201,923
1,000,001
553,762
2,301,255

2,090,890
1,592,117
1,394,426
1,245,475
832,115
659,723
786,000
944,000
553,249
846,997

One United Nations Fund
Private Donors in the United Kingdom
Private Donors Worldwide
Private Donors in Switzerland
Private Donors in Canada

78 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

52,518

40,040

Luxembourg
The Global Fund

10,018,789
118
4,560,261
10,185,955
1,065,107
3,394,285
4,900,000

1,365,188

Finland
Australia

469,833,788
66,041,090
12,538,090
1,210,175
7,701,505

5,699,849

Canada
Norway

ALL PILLARS

473,128
37,143
111,463
375,003

81,288

239,637

171,801

214,000

3,078

534

320,119

500,000

840,622
354,539
494,664
406,046
63,516

TOTAL

608,307,332
95,462,432
75,534,220
46,927,218
42,292,303
27,236,975
19,445,047
13,796,697
12,807,861
12,678,818
12,423,292
10,784,326
10,582,756
10,547,763
8,581,797
8,520,978
7,642,234
6,354,677
6,213,400
6,183,698
6,140,863
6,011,104
5,145,414
4,196,705
4,025,916
3,183,618
3,004,808
3,000,001
2,406,459
2,404,000
2,301,255
2,090,890
1,592,117
1,394,426
1,245,475
1,243,553
1,241,011
1,003,078
944,000
873,902
846,997
840,622
827,667
531,807
517,508
438,519

DONOR
Private Donors in the Republic of Korea

376,633

United Nations Department of Economic and
Social Affairs

369,392

30,590

242,761

UN Fund for Darfur
African Union

200,000
147,382

South Africa
World Food Programme
Private Donors in Sweden

142,640
548

124,523
115,000

United Nations Human Settlements Programme

90,664
63,735

Private Donors in Thailand
Nigeria
Portugal
United Nations Population Fund

58,962
49,491
47,959
42,003
10,000
18,961
17,270

Private Donors in France
Private Donors in China
Holy See

10,000

Botswana
Private Donors in Nigeria
Private Donors in Kuwait
Private Donors in Ghana

14,901
2,105

10,000
5,370

Private Donors in Uganda
Private Donors in Rwanda
Private Donors in Austria

1,000
107

770
126
120

Private Donors in Brazil
Private Donors in Ireland

TOTAL

ALL PILLARS

423,399,929

464,475

14,458,111

35,215,830

TOTAL

407,223
369,392
242,761
200,000
147,382
142,640
125,071
115,000
90,664
63,735
58,962
49,491
47,959
42,003
20,000
18,961
17,270
14,901
12,105
5,370
1,000
877
126
120

628,430,204 1,101,968,549

Note: Contributions include 7 per cent programme support costs, and exclude $33.4 million for implementation in 2018.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 79

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

FOREWORD
For the Americas, 2017 was a year of
great concern. In Colombia, despite the
implementation of the peace agreement,
numerous community leaders were
reportedly murdered, there was new
displacement, both internal and external,
and child recruitment by armed groups and
gender‑based violence continued along the
Pacific Coast and in border areas. Around
1.5 million Venezuelans left their country,
and hundreds of thousands remained in an
irregular situation, making them particularly
vulnerable to exploitation, trafficking,
violence, forced recruitment, sexual abuse,
discrimination and xenophobia. Asylum
applications from the North of Central
America increased due to violence and
insecurity caused by gangs and drug
cartels, which particularly affected children
and families. Though the response from
host countries to mixed flows has been
generous, national capacities throughout
the Americas region were overstretched.
UNHCR continued supporting governments
in their response, but needs were higher
than the Office’s capacity to respond.

The Americas

However, 2017 was also a year of hope,
solidarity and a renewed commitment
from countries in the region to improving
the lives of refugees, asylum‑seekers,
IDPs and the stateless. It was the third
year of implementation of the Brazil
Declaration and Plan of Action and, as a
result, 35 States and territories participated
in national and regional consultations
to evaluate their progress. The talks
culminated in the 100 Points of Brasilia—
a regional compilation of best practices
for supporting people of concern—
which constituted the contribution from
Latin America and the Caribbean to the
development and implementation of the
global compact on refugees.
© UNHCR/ Reynesson Damasceno

80 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Two Warao indigenous girls from Venezuela play
in the Boa Vista shelter, in northern Brazil, where
UNHCR has complemented government efforts to
provide immediate assistance to the most vulnerable.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 81

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

Equally inspiring was the way the
Americas pioneered the regional
application of Annex 1 of the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants—
the Comprehensive Refugee Response
Framework (CRRF). In October 2017,
Belize, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras,
Mexico and Panama agreed to its regional
application, the Comprehensive Regional
Protection and Solutions Framework, known
as MIRPS (Marco Integral Regional para la
Protección y Soluciones). In line with this
framework, these countries committed to
strengthening their protection responses
and intensifying their search for solutions
for people fleeing violence in the
North of Central America. The MIRPS places
emphasis on a comprehensive regional
approach that includes countries of origin,
transit and asylum. It aims to mitigate and
address the root causes of displacement,
minimize the suffering and exploitation of
those fleeing, provide access to effective
asylum procedures, and promote safe,
dignified and sustainable solutions. While
Central American countries demonstrated
exemplary ownership of the process in
2017, their protection mechanisms and
social services remained increasingly
overstretched.

	

	 9.9

NORTH OF
CENTRAL AMERICA
SITUATION

International support continued to be
needed to complement their efforts and
achieve the desired impact of this new
framework.

294,000

REFUGEES

and asylum-seekers were
displaced from the
North of Central America

The Americas continued to be a worldwide
leader in solutions. In 2017, the region
received more than 50,000 refugees
resettled mostly in Canada and the United
States of America. Meanwhile, Argentina,
Brazil and Chile designed and implemented
resettlement and community‑based
sponsorship programmes. Local integration
was boosted with the adoption of public
policies at the national and local level that
facilitated the inclusion of refugees and
stateless persons (see the chapter on
Building better futures).

130,500

NEW ASYLUM
APPLICATIONS

moved to neighbouring
countries and beyond
since 2014

142,600

VENEZUELANS
lodged asylum claims
since 2014

444,000

GUATEMALA HONDURAS

COLOMBIA
SITUATION

EL SALVADOR

NICARAGUA

PANAMA

IDPs by year’s end

75,100

COLOMBIA

IDPs in 2017 alone

ECUADOR

23%

INCREASE IN
ASYLUM CLAIMS

BRAZIL

lodged by Colombians
in Ecuador compared
to 2016
BOLIVIA

131 PARTNERS IN THE AMERICAS
AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUG EES AN D A SY LUM -SEEKERS
Americas
AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

644,000 | 6%

115	 NATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
11	 	 INTERNATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
2		GOVERNMENT PARTNERS
3		UN AGENCIES/OTHER PARTNERS

STATELESS
879,000 | 9%
6,500

481 STAFF IN THE AMERICAS

80%

RETURNEES (refugees & IDPs)
200
24%

60+
18-59

464,000 | 5%| 80%
7.9 MILLION

464,000 | 5%

SITUATIONS
		
		 < 1.5 million 			
		
People of concern
		
		 1.5 > 3 million
		 People of concern

40%

	 STATELESS PERSONS

	 OTHERS OF CONCERN

VENEZUELA

Director of UNHCR’s Regional Bureau for the Americas

	 ASLYLUM-SEEKERS

	 RETURNEES (Refugees and IDPs)
IDPs
200
7.9 million | 80%
	 IDPs
OTHERS OF CONCERN

TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO

COSTA RICA

7.7 million

MILLION

6,500

have accessed
alternative legal
forms of stay

Renata Dubini

REFUGEES
644,000 | 6%
	 REFUGEES
ASYLUM-SEEKERS
879,000 | 9%

8%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

18%

0-4

43 %
MALE

51

LOCATIONS

82 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

VENEZUELANS

MEXICO

BELIZE

The continent also made strides towards
eradicating statelessness. The Parliaments
of Chile and Haiti began accession to
the 1954 and 1961 UN Statelessness
Conventions, while Brazil, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba and Ecuador adopted legal
measures to prevent statelessness, facilitate
the naturalization of stateless persons,
or establish statelessness determination
procedures.

Americas
9.9 million

OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION OF
CONCERN

1.5 million
VENEZUELANS

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN THE AMERICAS

14%

VENEZUELA
SITUATION*

were lodged
in 2017 alone

57%

		
		
> 3 million
		 People of concern

FEMALE

1% %

*

	 CRRF Countries
New Emergencies

BASED IN
HARDSHIP LOCATIONS

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 83

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

MAJOR SITUATIONS
Colombia situation
The first year of
implementation of
Colombia’s peace
agreement with the
Revolutionary Armed
Forces of Colombia
(FARC) was challenging.
Communities in several regions continued
to be affected by the presence of armed
groups. The demobilization of FARC left a
power vacuum in areas that then became

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

disputed by armed actors and other
dissidents. Uncertainty increased in an
environment where State presence in many
of the most affected regions remained weak,
particularly along the Pacific Coast and in
border areas. By year’s end, there were
7.7 million IDPs in Colombia. More than 75,100
people were internally displaced in 2017
alone, and 78 leaders and members of social
organizations were killed. Furthermore, there
was a 23 per cent increase compared to
2016 in the number of asylum claims lodged
by Colombian nationals in Ecuador. This trend
is expected to continue into the future.

Visit to Venezuelan asylum-seekers family,
assisted by UNHCR.

CBIs work towards the integration of people of concern in the
social protection assistance mechanisms of countries, thereby
helping ensure sustainability. More than 1,700 refugees received cash assistance in Argentina and
Costa Rica in 2017 to help them start a business or another livelihood activity. UNHCR also assisted
people of concern in Ecuador and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to access banking services.
In November 2017, Ecuador’s civil registry
initiated a process to issue identity
documents to recognized refugees. This
process followed the adoption in Ecuador
of a law on Human Mobility which, amongst
other things, was designed to better
regulate the documentation of people
on the move. Under this new approach,
identity cards with a two-year validity were
issued to refugees. These cards are similar
to the personal documents provided to
national citizens and foreigners residing in
the country, and improve the legal status
of refugees and their access to public
programmes and services.
84 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The Office advocated for providing
immediate humanitarian assistance and
securing solutions to people with urgent
protection needs. These solutions included
resettlement, humanitarian evacuation
through the protection transfer arrangement
(PTA) and relocation.

The PTA: an innovative
lifesaving mechanism for
people at heightened risk

© UNHCR/Santiago Escobar Jaramillo

Cash for multi-purpose protection
interventions
Cash-based intervention (CBI) programmes were successful
in helping around 25,000 asylum-seekers and refugees
living in extreme poverty and at heightened risk in Central
America, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Haiti and Mexico.
Brazil and Colombia provided cash assistance to more than
400 Venezuelan households to cover their basic needs.
UNHCR gave cash grants to some Colombians in the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela who intended to return to their country
of origin.

need of protection could access territory
and asylum procedures.

North of Central America situation
The rise in asylum claims
from the North of Central
America (NCA)
continued in 2017, with
more than 130,500 new
asylum applications.
The number of
asylum-seekers and refugees from the NCA
reached more than 294,000 as of the end of
2017, an increase of 58 per cent from a year
earlier. This is sixteen times more people
than at the end of 2011. UNHCR worked
with governments to help ensure people in

The PTA is an innovative lifesaving evacuation
mechanism for people exposed to extreme risks
in the NCA. It provides them with safe and legal
access to a durable solution in a resettlement
country, via a country of transit. The programme
is coordinated by UNHCR, IOM, Costa Rica as
the transit country for the pilot, the governments
of the countries of origin, and participating
resettlement countries. More than 1,400 people
were eligible for the PTA in 2017, and almost
500 were referred to the authorities of Australia,
Canada and the United States of America.

UNHCR’s support, around 71,500 people
were forced to change their residence in the
country between 2006 and 2016 because
of violence.
Against this backdrop, UNHCR organized
protection dialogues with various
stakeholders from El Salvador, Guatemala,
Honduras, Mexico and the United States
of America—including governments and
civil society actors. At these protection
dialogues, a range of issues were
discussed, including the challenges
associated with protecting people
uprooted by violence and insecurity. Broad
consensus was reached during meetings
that an effective international protection
and sustainable solutions remain contingent
on political will, institutional capacity and
regional cooperation in countries of origin,
transit and asylum.

Regional developments, coupled with
greater migratory controls and checkpoints
on the southern Mexican border, changed
displacement patterns and resulted in a
growing proportion of asylum claims lodged
in countries such as Costa Rica, Guatemala
and Mexico during 2017. Mexican authorities
estimate that, in 2017, some 500,000 people
entered Mexico from Guatemala. UNHCR
and partners identified and assisted more
than 23,000 people in transit in the NCA
who had international protection needs.

In line with Chapter Four of the Brazil
Plan of Action, which calls for solidarity
with the North of Central America and as
a demonstration of sub-regional political
will, six States in the region—Belize,
Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico
and Panama—adopted the San Pedro
Sula Declaration in October 2017, which
prompted the launch of the regional CRRF
for Central America and Mexico, known
as MIRPS. Under the MIRPS, States
committed to strengthening protection and
expanding solutions for people of concern
in the region and working together to
enhance regional cooperation and
responsibility-sharing mechanisms.

Internal displacement caused by violence
was widespread in the NCA. Data on IDPs
and victims of violence is fragmented,
except in Honduras where a 2014 profiling
exercise in 20 urban municipalities
estimated the presence of 174,000 IDPs in
the country. According to the results of a
profiling study conducted by El Salvador’s
Minister of Justice and Public Security with

The MIRPS includes national action plans
developed through government-led
consultations with stakeholders, as part of
a “whole-of-society” approach. Relevant
stakeholders included in this consultation
process were people of concern to UNHCR,
UNCTs, and representatives of civil
society, the private sector and academia.
In addition to the six MIRPS countries, a

500,000
people entered
Mexico from
Guatemala in
2017.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 85

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

further ten cooperating States and entities
committed to actively support the MIRPS,
including by identifying specific areas they
will support through financial assistance
and technical cooperation. Furthermore,
in line with the spirit of the Brazil Plan of
Action, the participation of four States from
South America in support of the MIRPS
was a strong example of South–South
cooperation. By the end of 2017, MIRPS
countries were striving to implement
more than 180 commitments outlined in

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

The campaign was launched in Mexico by actor Diego Luna, and
was amplified far and wide in 2017 by a range of high profile voices,
including Mexican singer and songwriter, Natalia Lafourcade, and
the Puerto Rican rap artist, Residente. Vlogger Rosianna Halse Rojas
travelled to Colombia with UNHCR as part of the YouTube
Creators for Change programme. She led workshops aimed
at empowering young women affected by conflict to film
and produce videos.

86 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Renowned actor Diego Luna speaks at
the launch of the Children on the Run
campaign in Mexico City.

According to figures provided by host
governments, more than 142,600
Venezuelans lodged asylum claims since
the beginning of 2014. Around half of these
were in 2017. Another 444,000 Venezuelans
accessed alternative legal forms of stay
under national or regional frameworks,
including in Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Uruguay.
However, the vast majority continued to find
themselves in an irregular situation. Without
documentation or permission to remain,
this group is at a higher risk of violence,
exploitation, sexual abuse and trafficking.

© UNHCR/Paul Smith

“Children on the Run” is a UNHCR Private Sector Partnerships (PSP)
campaign focused on the Americas that aims to raise funds for people
fleeing from Central America and awareness of the NCA
situation. Several PSP markets, including Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and National Partners such as España con ACNUR
and USA for UNHCR, raised around $3 million in 2017 for
those affected by violence in the NCA.

In the past few years,
the deteriorating
socioeconomic and
political situation in the
Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela has caused
around 1.5 million
Venezuelans to move to neighbouring
countries and beyond. Their primary
destinations were Brazil, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Mexico, Peru, Spain and the
United States of America.

UNHCR worked with governments and
other partners across the continent to
establish a coordinated and comprehensive
response to the Venezuela situation.
Assessments, profiling and protection
monitoring enabled better understanding
of the humanitarian and international
protection needs of Venezuelans exiting

© UNHCR/Arturo Almenar

Goodwill Ambassador support for the
“Children on the Run” campaign

Venezuela situation

Host communities receiving Venezuelans
were also under increasing strain, as they
sought to extend assistance and services to
those arriving.

three-year national and regional action
plans to address the situation in countries
of origin, transit and asylum or destination.
For instance, as a direct result of the MIRPS,
Belize and Panama proposed actions to
include refugees in national education
services; Mexico took steps to guarantee
the access of refugees to livelihood training,
employment programmes and financial
services; and Guatemala was providing
refugees with access to job support services
(see the chapter on Building better futures).

their country. UNHCR also scaled up its
presence in border areas and worked
to strengthen asylum and registration
systems throughout the region. In addition,
the Office continued to be engaged in
community-based protection approaches
and provision of assistance to the most
vulnerable. Finally, with the support of
authorities, partners and host communities,
awareness and solidarity campaigns were
rolled out to combat discrimination and
xenophobia.

Grateful Colombian refugee opens home
to Venezuelans in need
“It’s time to give something back,” says Angelica Lamos Ballesteros,
from her home in the dusty hilltop suburb of Cúcuta, Colombia. The
51-year-old was forced to leave her home in Colombia’s mountainous
Norte de Santander by gun-toting guerrillas. She now lives just west
of the Táchira River, which borders the Bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela and has opened her home to Venezuelans in
their hour of need.
Women and children share a meal at
former refugee Angelica Lamos’s home
in Cúcuta, Colombia.

“People arrive here with nothing,” she says.

ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT
Across the Americas, countries
demonstrated their commitment to
improving the lives of people of concern,
including by enhancing asylum systems,
seeking solutions, adopting inclusive
public policies, taking steps towards the
eradication of statelessness and protecting
children and survivors of sexual and
gender‑based violence (SGBV).

Building a harmonized
asylum system
Ecuador became the tenth country in
the region to join the quality assurance
initiative (QAI), together with Argentina, the

Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,
Costa Rica, Mexico, Panama, Peru and
Trinidad and Tobago. UNHCR continued
offering capacity‑building support and
technical advice within the QAI framework.
In May 2017, to enhance access to refugee
status determination (RSD) procedures,
UNHCR, the Inter‑American Institute
of Human Rights, and 40 civil society
organizations launched the Americas
Network for Refugee Legal Aid. The
network researches refugee protection
standards, supports legal counselling
and representation for an increasing
number of people in need of international
protection, and trains refugee lawyers and
practitioners.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 87

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

families to
move towards
self-reliance.

Progressing towards
comprehensive solutions
In 2017, around 25,000 refugees
were resettled in the United States of
America, while Canada received nearly
27,000 refugees—approximately two‑thirds
of whom were privately sponsored—
surpassing its target of 25,000 refugees.
By participating in the IOM and UNHCR
emergency resettlement country
mechanism, Argentina, Brazil and Chile
advanced the design and implementation
of their resettlement and community‑based
sponsorship programmes in 2017 (see the
chapter on Building better futures).
88 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

© UNHCR/Chile’s Syrian Refugees Resettlement Programme

1,800

Best interest procedures and national
protocols were developed in several countries
to ensure children’s access to asylum, family
reunification and alternative care. These
countries included Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
El Salvador, Guatemala and Panama.

© UNHCR/Jack Aldwinckle

In Ecuador,
the graduation
approach has
enabled more
than

In 2017, several countries adopted legal
measures to strengthen access to asylum.
Brazil introduced new registration forms
that better capture data on asylum‑seekers
and their vulnerabilities in order to prioritize
cases. The country also developed a protocol
for unaccompanied children. Ecuador
enacted provisions to issue renewable,
90‑day humanitarian visas to asylum‑seekers,
ensuring protection throughout the asylum
procedure. Mexico issued a manual with
state‑of‑the‑art eligibility procedures and was
considering adopting a protocol to accelerate
the processing of cases involving vulnerable
people. Since Costa Rica implemented the
QAI, asylum claims have been registered at
migration border posts, ensuring efficient
access to RSD procedures. Despite having
no asylum legislation, the Bahamas adopted
standard operating procedures to respond
to asylum claims, while Trinidad and Tobago
continued its transition towards assuming full
responsibilities to process RSD.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

Innovation for integration
In Costa Rica, the living integration quality seal
is awarded to local authorities, academia, public and private
sectors, as well as civil society, for making a substantial
contribution to the local integration of people of concern. The
Costa Rican government declared this initiative of national
interest through a Presidential Decree.

Resettled Syrian families arrive at the international
airport in Chile’s capital, Santiago.
Majd and Lana embrace outside the entrance
to their new apartment block in San Luis,
central Argentina.

Escaping war at home, Syrian couple
start over in Argentina
“It already feels like home,” grins Lana.
“In Argentina we have learnt how to
be human again,” adds Majd.
The couple had little choice but to
flee Syria.
In Ecuador, UNHCR continued
implementing the graduation approach,
which has enabled more than 1,800 families
to move towards self‑reliance. Costa Rica
continued to integrate refugees through
initiatives jointly developed with the
public and private sectors, such as the
living integration project—a corporate
social responsibility scheme promoting
refugees’ access to the labour market.
Mexico continued to implement a relocation
scheme to transfer refugees from the
country’s economically‑depressed southern
States to industrial corridor States, matching
them with job opportunities.
Support for public policies promoting the
inclusion of refugees and stateless persons
was best showcased by the Cities of
Solidarity Initiative, which saw many local
governments in the region directly engage
in solutions and the socioeconomic and
cultural inclusion of refugees. Cities like
Buenos Aires, Mexico City, Quito and
São Paulo were among those making
significant progress in integrating refugees
in their public policies.

Ending statelessness
In 2017, Chile’s parliament approved
accession to the 1954 and 1961 Conventions
on statelessness, Haiti was preparing for
accession to both conventions, and Costa
Rica enacted regulations on statelessness
determination procedures. However, some
countries were yet to accede to the UN
Statelessness Conventions, particularly in
the Caribbean region.
In Cuba, residency is no longer required for
the acquisition of nationality, effective from
January 2018. A new decree established
a non‑automatic mode of nationality
acquisition, which involved submitting an
application abroad or in the country and
defined criteria for its rejection.
In the Dominican Republic, essential steps
have been taken since the adoption of
Law 169‑14 in May 2014, which sets out
procedural avenues for those born in the
country to two migrant parents who needed
to regularize their civil documentation.
By the end of 2017, around 20,000 people
successfully availed themselves of this
procedure. UNHCR is working with the

Argentina, Brazil and Chile progressed in the design and
implementation of their resettlement and community-based
sponsorship programmes with support from the emerging
resettlement countries’ joint support mechanism. Argentina
set up an innovative private and community sponsorship
model, which allowed private and public entities to sponsor
the integration of resettled refugees. Throughout 2017, UNHCR
coordinated with IOM and other stakeholders to strengthen the
capacity of those working in areas of reception and integration.
UNHCR forged new partnerships with the private sector and
education institutions.

authorities and other actors to determine
the size of the population still in need of
documentation.
In Colombia, the national registry office has
regulated the application of the Colombian
nationality law and placed it in accordance
with the 1961 Convention on the reduction
of statelessness. Thus, a new procedure
will be implemented by the civil registry
to ensure no child born in the country to
foreign parents with an irregular migratory
status is stateless. Ecuador passed a decree
regulating the new Organic Law on Human
Mobility, establishing a statelessness
determination procedure. Brazil issued a
regulation that provides some protection for
non‑refugee stateless persons, as foreseen
in its 2017 Migration Law, thereby advancing
the agenda of statelessness identification,
protection and reduction.

In Colombia, a
new procedure
will ensure no
child born in
the country to
foreign parents
with an irregular
migratory status
is stateless.

Sexual and gender‑based violence
The Regional Safe Spaces Network
improves the disclosure and identification
of SGBV, and response to it, by providing
a minimum service package through
multi‑country cooperation.
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 89

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

Colombia, Costa Rica, Guatemala, Mexico
and the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
have joined the initiative, which was
established in cooperation with civil society
actors and community volunteers. The
Network offers information to survivors of
SGBV and children at risk and facilitates
access to specialized and multi‑sectoral
services along the displacement cycle, and
across countries.
UNHCR has also prioritized the protection
of people of concern from sexual
exploitation and abuse through the
reinforcement of complaint mechanisms,
taking into account age, gender and
diversity.

Strengthening regional cooperation
In the spirit of regional cooperation,
Canada, Mexico and the United States
of America engaged in capacity‑building
projects to strengthen the region’s asylum
systems.
In November 2017, UNHCR signed a
memorandum of understanding with
MERCOSUR (Mercado Común del Sur)
to promote international refugee law,
adherence with international protection
instruments, regional cooperation,
responsibility‑sharing mechanisms, and
joint activities to protect refugees, IDPs
and the stateless.
The second meeting of the Caribbean
Migration Consultations was held in the
Bahamas in December 2017. At the meeting,
States defined key priorities to better
promote refugee protection, as well as
discussed the application of a rights‑based
approach to the management of mixed
movements.

90 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

UNHCR also signed a regional cooperation
agreement with the Organization of
Ibero‑American States for Education,
Science and Culture. Under the terms of
the agreement, organizations will work
together to facilitate access to education
for asylum‑seekers, refugees, IDPs and
stateless persons in the Americas.

CONSTRAINTS
The movement of large numbers of
Venezuelans in the region, as well as the
hardships and risks that many of these
people endure, are of particular concern.
While States’ response to the situation has
been generous, as the year progressed
some were reaching saturation point and
began to institute restrictive measures.
Asylum systems were overstretched,
resulting in increased delays and
backlogs. The Southern Caribbean region
is particularly vulnerable to significant
Venezuelan arrivals. The mixed nature of
those arriving poses challenges in terms
of the adequate identification of those with
international protection needs.
While UNHCR has expanded its presence
by strengthening its protection networks,
humanitarian access to certain violent
urban neighbourhoods, cities or provinces
controlled by armed groups in El Salvador
and Honduras remained challenging. The
Office maintained frequent and active
communication with local communities and
implementing partners to evaluate and
mitigate security risks.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Budget
• ExCom revised budget: $145.6
• Final budget: $151.4

million.

million.

• Budget increase: $5.7 million / +4% to bolster UNHCR’s presence and monitoring
capacity in border areas, where people from the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
were increasingly arriving, and to respond to the growing needs in the North of Central
America.

Expenditure
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income

TOTAL

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked
Unearmarked
In-kind
-

As % of
As % of global
expenditure within expenditure by
the region
source of funding

310
11,666
26,042
46,341
442
1,236

0.4%
13.6%
30.3%
53.9%
0.5%
1.4%

0%
1%
4%
12%
1%
1%

86,037

100%

2%

• Funding gap: 43%.
• Flexible funding was critical for the Americas accounting for the 84% of regional
expenditure: 54% was unearmarked and 30% was softly earmarked.
• The funding shortfall substantially limited UNHCR’s ability to provide the necessary
technical assistance to governments to enhance national asylum systems and gradually
transfer responsibility to them for RSD procedures.
• The funding shortfall meant there was a lack of local integration alternatives and
livelihood support was restricted.
• Limited implementation of cash-based and community-based interventions directly
affected the welfare of people of concern. There were insufficient solutions for those
facing limited resettlement places, and UNHCR’s capacity to help efficiently coordinate
and build protection and integration networks was hampered.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 91

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | T H E A M E R I C A S

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE AMERICAS | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS | USD

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

DONOR
TOTAL

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

IDP
projects

4,386,138
1,040,664
1,005,061

United States of America

NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Canada

Budget
Expenditure

United States of America Regional Office1

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

European Union

1,575,006
1,497,721
16,054,750
7,797,434

165,235
118,728
11,994,320
6,087,065

-

-

1,740,241
1,616,449
28,049,070
13,884,499

17,629,756

12,159,555

-

-

29,789,311

9,295,155

6,205,793

-

-

15,500,948

23,300,000
1,506,881

2,962
28,615,140

42,411,055

1,486,989
1,590,248

Private Donors in Spain

767,015
727,258
760,000

International Organization for Migration
Spain
Denmark

689,792
559,910
710,900

Private Donors in Germany

690,335

Switzerland

Argentina Regional Office

2

662,778

5,856,262
4,308,905
5,670,375
4,338,126
2,234,602
1,976,883
6,054,072
4,004,841
3,157,492
1,797,076
18,807,945
11,332,827
14,732,287
9,617,442
22,672,194
12,700,587
8,667,207
4,074,329
2,149,340
874,041

215,073
207,270
189,875
133,903
409,983
335,081
912,506
471,728
-

-

26,868,265
14,363,253
3,000,000
-

6,071,336
4,516,175
5,860,249
4,472,029
29,102,868
16,340,136
6,464,055
4,339,921
4,069,998
2,268,804
21,807,945
11,332,827
14,732,287
9,617,442
22,672,194
12,700,587
8,667,207
4,074,329
2,149,340
874,041

Expenditure

90,001,777
55,025,058

1,727,437
1,147,981

-

29,868,265
14,363,253

121,597,480
70,536,292

Budget
Expenditure

107,631,533
64,320,212

13,886,992
7,353,774

29,868,265
14,363,253

151,386,791
86,037,240

Budget
Expenditure

Brazil

Budget

Colombia

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Costa Rica

Budget
Expenditure

Regional Legal Unit Costa Rica

Budget

Ecuador

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Mexico

Budget
Expenditure
3

Budget
Expenditure

Venezuela

Budget
Expenditure

Regional activities4

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget

TOTAL

546,148
297,950

Private Donors in Mexico
Private Donors in Switzerland

140,000
343,377
327,418

Private Donors in Canada
Private Donors in Brazil

162,500

UN Peacebuilding Fund

113,900

Argentina

112,420
100,000
188

UN Programme on HIV/AIDS
World Food Programme
Private Donors in Italy

54,289

21
35,548

Germany

32,250

Private Donors in Japan

26,681
14,316

Private Donors in the Netherlands
Private Donors in the United States of America

3,420

Private Donors in Colombia

248

Private Donors Worldwide

TOTAL

9,905,590

2,196,673

1,693,652

TOTAL

27,686,138
2,760,993
2,492,050
1,590,248
1,456,807
1,287,168
760,000
710,900
690,335
662,778
546,148
437,950
343,377
327,418
162,500
113,900
112,420
100,000
54,499
35,548
32,250
26,681
14,316
3,420
3,210

213,447

Brazil

LATIN AMERICA

Panama Regional Office

Canada

ALL PILLARS

Note: Contributions include 7 per cent programme support costs.

EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS 2013-2017 | USD
100

1

Includes Belize, Dominican Republic and Haiti.						
Includes activities in the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay.						
3
Includes activities in Cuba, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and the Regional Legal Unit.					
4
Regional activities cover the entire Americas region.								
2

90
80
70
60

2017 EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS | USD
EXPENDITURE IN THE AMERICAS | USD
$86 million
$86 million

50
40

Pillar 1
Pillar 2

30

Pillar 3

20

PILLAR 2
$7.4 million | 8.5%

2%
92 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OF GLOBAL
EXPENDITURE

Pillar 4

10
Millions

PILLAR 1
$64.3 million | 75%

0
2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

PILLAR 4
$14.4 million | 16.5%

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 93

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

FOREWORD
In 2017, Asia and the Pacific was home
to more than 60 per cent of the world’s
population. With some 4.4 billion people,
the region is an engine for global
development, characterized by economic
growth, rising living standards, and people
on the move seeking new opportunities.
However, in 2017, millions of people were
not following this upward trajectory. The
region hosted 9.5 million people of concern
to UNHCR, including 4.2 million refugees,
2.7 million IDPs, and an estimated 2.2 million
stateless persons. Of the total population of
concern to UNHCR, half were children; more
than half were women and girls; and many
had no nationality, documentation or place
to call home.
The long‑standing tradition of hospitality
towards many displaced people remained
strong across the region. This was
demonstrated by the remarkable response
of Bangladesh, which kept its borders
open to nearly 655,000 stateless refugees
fleeing violence in Myanmar.

94 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017
2017

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

Asia and
the Pacific

The influx dramatically altered the
operational context for UNHCR in
Bangladesh. As a result of the urgent
humanitarian needs, UNHCR ramped
up its capacity in support of refugees,
the Government and local communities
generously hosting them. The solutions
to this crisis lie in Myanmar, and it is there
that the search must start for them. The
efforts needed to enable the voluntary
and sustainable repatriation of refugees
failed to materialize in 2017, and they must
begin with humanitarian access for UNHCR.
Preserving the right of return, however,
remained a central priority for UNHCR and
the Office welcomed the commitments
made by Bangladesh and Myanmar on
dignified, safe, and voluntary repatriation in
2017.

A Rohingya father carries his children in a basket
as he wades through water crossing the border
from Myanmar into Bangladesh near the village of
Anzuman Para in Palong Khali, October 2017.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 95

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

Across the region, statelessness remained
a significant challenge in 2017. An estimated
2.2 million people had no nationality in
the region, more than anywhere else in
the world. UNHCR’s campaign to end
statelessness by 2024 remains a historic
opportunity. The region made modest
progress with addressing statelessness in
2017, with more than 25,000 people in the
region acquiring a nationality, including in
the Philippines, Thailand and Turkmenistan.
Lasting solutions to the protracted Afghan
refugee situation—one of the largest
in the world—remained contingent on
developments inside Afghanistan. More
than 10,000 innocent civilians either lost
their lives or were injured in 2017 due to
ongoing violence and there was an increase
in the number of casualties from suicide and
complex attacks, including on humanitarian
workers. As a result of this violence,
1.8 million people in Afghanistan were
internally displaced as of the end of 2017.
Another 2.6 million Afghans remained
refugees. The majority of the Afghan
refugee population remained generously
hosted by the Islamic Republics of Iran
and Pakistan. With UNHCR support, these
nations continued to provide refugees with
a chance at a decent life.

	

	 9.5

The Solutions Strategy for Afghan Refugees
(SSAR) remained a vital regional platform
for solutions in 2017. Since its adoption in
2012, it has continued to pave the way for
the UNHCR‑assisted voluntary repatriation
of more than 660,000 Afghan refugees. In
2017, some 58,800 refugees, mostly from
Pakistan, chose to return home. Despite
a decrease from the year before, this was
still globally the third largest number of
voluntary returns from one country in that
period.

Asia
AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

ASYLUM-SEEKERS| 44%
4.2 MILLION
160,000 | 2%

	 ASLYLUM-SEEKERS

fled to Bangladesh
in 2017 alone

55%

IDPs by year’s end

were under 18 years

52%

were female

AFGHANISTAN

BANGLADESH

*
MYANMAR

168 PARTNERS

IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

115	 NATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
29		 INTERNATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
22		 GOVERNMENT PARTNERS
2		UN AGENCIES/OTHER PARTNERS

25%

	 STATELESS
PERSONS*
RETURNEES (refugees & IDPs)

50%

	

2.2 million
| 23%| 7%
696,000

	1,254 STAFF
IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

15%

60+

OF CONCERN
IDPs OTHERS
529,000 | 6%

* The stateless population includes 932,000 Myanmar

96 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

REFUGEES

1.8 million

STATELESS*
2.2 million | 23%

refugees in Bangladesh
and 126,000 stateless IDPs in
	 OTHERS
OF CONCERN

Situation

655,000

sought protection in the
Islamic Republic of Iran

160,000 | 2%

18-59

2.7 MILLION | 29%
CRRF COUNTRY

sought protection in
Bangladesh by year’s end

REFUGEES

REFUGEES

	

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

REFUGEES
4.2 million | 44%
	 REFUGEES

	

sought protection
in Pakistan

950,000

MILLION

	 RETURNEES
IDPs (Refugees and IDPs)
696,0002.7
| 7%million | 29%

932,200

Indrika Ratwatte

REFUG EES AN D A SY LUM -SEEKERS

OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION OF
CONCERN

1.4 million

Director of UNHCR’s Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

13%

MYANMAR
SITUATION

REFUGEES

In 2017, UNHCR continued to provide
assistance and protection for people of
concern, finding solutions for them and
strengthening partnerships with a wide
array of actors—including development
partners, the private sector and with
States and regional bodies. The Office
was thankful to the international community
for its political and financial support to
UNHCR’s work in 2017. As the world
continued to face a range of pressing
international challenges, the Office
appealed for continued robust solidarity
and support for refugee, stateless and
displaced populations in the region.

Asia and the Pacific
9.5 million

AFGHANISTAN
SITUATION

Myanmar who are counted in refugee and IDP populations.

529,000 | 6%

5%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

50%

0-4

63%
MALE

66

LOCATIONS
* The stateless population includes 932,000 Myanmar refugees in Bangladesh and
126,000 stateless IDPs in Myanmar who are counted in refugee and IDP populations.

37%

SITUATIONS
		
		 < 1.5 million 			
		
People of concern

FEMALE

51% %

BASED IN
HARDSHIP LOCATIONS

		 > 3 million
		 People of concern

*

New Emergencies

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 97

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

Afghan refugees in South‑West Asia
In Afghanistan,
violence and insecurity
triggered new forced
displacement, making
sustainable returns and
reintegration more
challenging. Conflict
displaced more than
470,000 people in Afghanistan in 2017,
affecting 31 out of 34 provinces. As at the
end of 2017, nearly all Afghan refugees
(96 per cent) lived in the neighbouring
countries of the Islamic Republics of Iran
and Pakistan.
Pakistan hosted 1.4 million Afghan refugees,
making it the largest such host country
worldwide. To meet the significant needs
of this group, the Government of Pakistan,
with assistance from UNHCR, has been
implementing the Refugee Affected and
Hosting Areas initiative to support host
communities. In 2017, this initiative benefited
more than 500,000 people—31 per cent of
whom were Afghan refugees—focusing on
youth empowerment through education,
skills training and livelihood support.

Afghan and Iraqi
refugee children
were enrolled
in primary and
secondary school
in the Islamic
Republic of Iran.

98 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Eighteen-year-old Rabiaa Khatun and her niece,
Umme Salma, 8, walk 10 kilometres from the
Myanmar border to a UNHCR transit camp in
Kutupalong, Bangladesh.

Orphaned Rohingya children forced
to grow up too fast
In Bangladesh, thousands of teenaged refugees
are now caring for their younger siblings and
relatives after losing their families to violence in
Myanmar.
“Since we all lost our parents, I am now playing
the role of a mother,” said Rabiaa.
“I will take care of them for the rest
of my life. I want to see them
well-educated.”

Myanmar situation
In August 2017, the
region experienced the
largest and most
sudden exodus of
refugees from Myanmar
in decades. In
September alone, more
than half a million
stateless refugees arrived in Bangladesh
from Myanmar. The influx was triggered by
security operations in the northern part of
Myanmar’s Rakhine State, in response to
attacks on police and military posts
launched on 25 August 2017. By the end of
the year, nearly 655,000 refugees had fled
to Bangladesh to escape violence and
serious human rights violations
in Myanmar’s Rakhine State. The new
arrivals joined more than 276,000 refugees
from Myanmar already in Bangladesh in
Cox’s Bazar District. More than
three‑quarters of the refugees were women
and children; of this total, 55 per cent were
under 18 years and around half (52 per cent)
were female. In addition to the protection,
psychological and social challenges that

commonly affect refugees, the population in
Cox’s Bazar District also faced severe
crowding. Significant shelter, food, nutrition,
water, health and sanitation needs also
placed extreme pressure on national and
host community services; capacities that
were already stretched. In response to the
unfolding crisis, UNHCR declared an
internal Level 3 Emergency—its highest

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

420,00

With 950,000 Afghan refugees and
almost 30,000 refugees from Iraq,
the Islamic Republic of Iran was the
second largest host country worldwide
of Afghan refugees. In 2017, the Islamic
Republic of Iran expanded refugee
access to healthcare through its universal
public health insurance scheme, giving
125,000 refugees access to the same level
of services as Iranian nationals. There
were also positive developments on the
education front in the Islamic Republic of
Iran in 2017. More than 420,000 Afghan
and Iraqi refugee children were enrolled in
primary and secondary school during the
2016–2017 academic year.

The protracted nature of the Afghan
refugee situation in the two major host
countries continued to underscore the
need for long‑term solutions. To that
end, there was a focus on the creation
of conditions conducive to voluntary
repatriation to Afghanistan and support for
refugee‑hosting communities at the fifth
Quadripartite Steering Committee meeting,
involving Afghanistan, the Islamic Republics
of Iran and Pakistan, together with UNHCR,
on 1 December 2017 in Istanbul. At that
meeting, participants reaffirmed the
significance of SSAR and their commitment
to work together to ensure the voluntary
return of Afghan refugees in safety and
dignity, including through joint resource
mobilization efforts.

© UNHCR/Andrew McConnell

MAJOR SITUATIONS

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

level of alert—and in September 2017
launched a supplementary appeal for
$57.3 million for September to December
2017. A humanitarian response plan was
also launched in September 2017 for the
Rohingya refugee crisis. To support
refugees, affected local communities and
the Government of Bangladesh, the Office
rapidly expanded its emergency response,
mobilizing airlifts of humanitarian aid and
increasing UNHCR’s on‑the‑ground
presence in Bangladesh. At the same time,
the Office continued to explore durable
solutions to the crisis.

In Bangladesh,
UNHCR has
made its most
significant
deployment of
its organizational
emergency
response to
assist hundreds
of thousands of
refugees.

In Cox’s Bazar District, the Office also
addressed critical protection, shelter, water,
sanitation, health, nutrition and other needs.
Delivering appropriate shelter and site
planning responses proved challenging
given high population density and difficult
topographical conditions. In addition,
UNHCR established a consolidated,
comprehensive identity management
system to ensure people’s needs were met.
To provide maximum access to social and
psychological services, UNHCR constructed
seven community centres in Kutapalong
settlement, which included integrated
information points and trained community
outreach staff. Finally, to ensure effective
coordination and delivery of services

Community outreach offering a vital bridge
between refugees and UNHCR

Rashida Begum, 23, a Rohingya
shipwreck survivor who lost relatives
when her boat capsized on Inani Beach
near Cox’s Bazar, receives counselling
from UNHCR psychologist Mahmuda at
Kutupalong refugee camp in Bangladesh.

In line with UNHCR’s commitment to innovative community outreach
projects, UNHCR oversaw the construction of seven community centres
in the Kutapalong settlement in Bangladesh. The centres feature
case management rooms, space for private counselling, as well as
community-led activities. A community outreach members’ initiative
was also launched in December 2017, providing refugees without
access to traditional information channels with personalized, lifesaving
information. The initiative offers a vital bridge between refugees
and UNHCR staff, helping the Office better understand and address
refugees’ needs. By the end of 2017, 50 refugee men and women of all
ages were participating in the initiative.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 99

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

and support to vulnerable populations,
UNHCR ensured relevant technical staff
were quickly deployed to the field (see
the chapter on Responding with lifesaving
support).

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

governments to ensuring the voluntary and
safe return of refugees to their places of
origin in Myanmar. Although UNHCR was
not a party to the agreement, it extended an
offer of support to both governments to lay
the ground for its eventual implementation.

© UNHCR/Caroline Gluck

and Nauru. In 2017, UNHCR exceptionally
agreed to help with the relocation of some
refugees to the United States of America
following a bilateral agreement between
the two countries. UNHCR continued its
advocacy with the Government of Australia
to take responsibility for those who will not
be relocated under this arrangement and
find solutions for them.

ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT

Cash for basic protection needs
In 2017, with the approval of the Government of
Bangladesh, UNHCR and partners began work
on the launch of a pilot cash project in Cox’s
Bazar to provide selected refugees with cash
to cover basic needs, such as weatherproofing
ahead of the wet season. An expected
13,000 households will be reached by this pilot.

In Myanmar, access to the northern part
of Rakhine State had been severely
constrained since August 2017. UNHCR
encouraged the Government of Myanmar
to grant humanitarian access and allow
humanitarian programmes and activities
to resume there, including efforts to
create conditions conducive to voluntary,
sustainable return, in line with the Rakhine
Advisory Commission’s recommendations.
In November 2017, the Governments of
Myanmar and Bangladesh agreed on
an arrangement for the voluntary return
to Myanmar of Rohingya refugees who
arrived after September 2016. The bilateral
agreement outlined commitments by both
100 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Safeguarding access to
protection and asylum
While advocating and supporting the
establishment and improvement of asylum
procedures by States, UNHCR promoted
protection‑sensitive systems to manage
mixed movements in the region.
UNHCR undertook refugee status
determination (RSD) in countries without
national asylum procedures and provided
technical support to governments that
conduct RSD. The Office also worked
with States and other stakeholders to
identify alternatives to the detention
of asylum‑seekers, and to influence
government legislation and policy relating
to refugee matters. UNHCR also sought
solutions for people of concern, including
through regional schemes beyond
resettlement to third countries, such as
labour mobility agreements.
Australia’s policy of offshore processing,
which denies access to asylum in Australia
for refugees arriving by sea without a valid
visa, continued in Papua New Guinea

In South‑East Asia, UNHCR continued to
engage extensively with the Bali Process
on People Smuggling, Trafficking in Persons
and Related Transnational Crime. UNHCR
also increased its engagement with the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
to address the causes of displacement,

© UNHCR/Duniya Aslam Khan

Pilot cash assistance project rolls out in world’s
largest refugee settlement in Bangladesh. “The
first thing I’ll do is pay off our debts and then we’ll
use this money to buy food.” Samuda, 35, from
Buthidaung, Myanmar waits with other Rohingya
refugees at Kutupalong camp to receive cash
assistance. She supports her 15-year-old daughter
on her own.

Despite the Asia and the Pacific region
witnessing some of the most challenging
displacement crises in the world in 2017,
States remained committed to protecting
people of concern to UNHCR. The Office
supported governments as they sought to
improve asylum procedures, prevent and
reduce statelessness, and find durable
solutions for protracted refugee situations.

particularly in the context of the Myanmar
situation, to allow for safe and sustainable
returns.
In February 2017, the Government of
Pakistan adopted a comprehensive
policy on the voluntary repatriation and
management of Afghan refugees, extending
the validity of “proof of registration”
cards until the end of March 2018. The
Government of Pakistan, supported
by UNHCR, also launched a six‑month
programme in July 2017 to register
undocumented Afghans. Together, they
have registered some 900,000 people: a
ground‑breaking effort.

900,000
undocumented
Afghans were
registered by the
Government of
Pakistan, with
the support of
UNHCR.

Afghans dream of stepping out of
the shadows with Pakistan ID scheme
“I am feeling confident that I will have at least some sort of identity
while in Pakistan,” says Rehman, who was born and raised in Pakistan
to Afghan parents.
“If the police arrest me now, at least I will be released without much
trouble.”
Afghan refugees hold up cards providing
proof of registration, in Maach, Pakistan.
A new pilot programme is issuing citizen
cards to undocumented Afghans in
Pakistan.

The pilot programme launched in July 2017 seeks to
register undocumented Afghans living in the country,
many of whom have lived in Pakistan for nearly four
decades and raised children there.

Seeking durable solutions for
protracted refugee situations
Given the ongoing violence in Afghanistan
and the country’s limited absorption
capacity, UNHCR did not promote refugee
returns there in 2017. However, as per its
mandate and within the framework of the
SSAR, it did assist with the return of people
of concern to their place of origin, based
on a free and informed decision, in and to
conditions of safety and dignity. In July 2017,
a delegation of 160 Afghan refugees
travelled from Pakistan to Afghanistan to

advocate with that Government measures
that ought to be taken to ensure return
is sustainable, including the importance
of reintegration assistance, land rights,
employment, shelter, health and education.
To better support the reintegration
of Afghan refugees, UNHCR and the
World Bank Group also signed a data
sharing agreement in November 2017 to
strengthen data collection and analysis.
In Sri Lanka, more than 1,500 refugees
returned home in 2017, many to the
northern and eastern parts of the country.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 101

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

Over

112,000

In the region, UNHCR is pursuing alternative
pathways for refugees. For instance, it is
supporting the life‑changing scholarship
programmes sponsored by the Government
of Japan, which started in 2017, to enable
Syrian refugees to pursue post‑graduate
education.

One of the stalls at the refugee fair in Beldangi
refugee camp in Damak, south-east Nepal,
celebrating the shared bonds between local
residents and Bhutanese refugees.

Refugee families able to create an
economic identity in Nepal
UNHCR successfully negotiated with the
leading commercial bank in the country,
Nepal Investment Bank Limited, to open bank
accounts for refugees with reduced fees and
special terms and conditions. More than
2,500 refugee families opened bank accounts
in 2017, benefitting from reduced wire
transaction fees for remittances and the
ability to create an economic identity in Nepal.
Refugees will be able to use the banking
system for loans, credit, and savings, just like
anyone else.

In the Philippines, the siege of Marawi
and subsequent internal displacement of
an estimated 400,000 people changed
UNHCR’s operational context in Mindanao.
In 2017, the Office stepped up its protection
presence in support of IDPs there, by
reinforcing information management and
monitoring and catalyzing the support of
development actors.

© UNHCR/Toyo Shinnosuke

A population of around 7,000 refugees
remains in Nepal, approximately 900 of
whom have already been processed for
resettlement and are expected to depart by
mid‑2018.

UNHCR continued addressing the needs of
IDPs in Afghanistan. In‑kind and cash‑based
assistance was more effective in meeting
urgent medical expenses and covering
the cost of legal aid while promoting
self‑reliance. UNHCR, in coordination
with other humanitarian actors, led the
emergency shelter and non‑food items
cluster. It also assisted families newly
displaced by conflict.

© UNHCR/Andy Hall

Bhutanese
refugees in Nepal
were resettled
in third countries
since 2007.

In Nepal, the large-scale Bhutanese
resettlement programme, which was
launched in 2007, drew to a close, with
more than 112,000 refugees resettled in
third countries as of end of 2017.

Ensuring protection and
solutions for IDPs

© UNHCR

UNHCR staff met each family upon return
and provided cash grants for transportation
and reintegration, as well as essential
household items. These efforts augmented
the work of the Government of Sri Lanka on
ensuring refugees’ sustainable return. The
Office also carried out protection monitoring
in areas of return to support the safety and
protection of returning refugees.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador Kristin Davis visits
Kutupalong refugee camp.

UNHCR Goodwill Ambassadors Yusra Mardini
and Miyavi doing a Facebook Live.

Goodwill Ambassadors join hands in support of refugees
Goodwill Ambassador and actress Kristin Davis’ mission to Bangladesh raised awareness
and funds for UNHCR’s emergency response to the Rohingya crisis, both through
traditional media and social media channels. Elsewhere, Syrian Olympic swimmer Yusra
Mardini visited Japan, where she spoke to media and took part in a Facebook Live
discussion with Japanese musician and fellow Goodwill Ambassador, Miyavi. Together,
they brought the work of UNHCR to their supporters’ attention.

Global partner UNIQLO provides multi-faceted support to refugees
The Japanese global apparel retailer UNIQLO is one of UNHCR’s longest serving supporters. In 2017, UNIQLO
provided $1.8 million as part of its continuous investment in UNHCR’s livelihoods programme across India, the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Malaysia, Nepal and Pakistan. In addition to this financial support, UNHCR acknowledged
in-kind donations of more than 5 million items of clothing donated by UNIQLO to 47 UNHCR operations worldwide,
bringing the total received to more than 20 million pieces. UNIQLO’s partnership with UNHCR also includes a
deployment programme, through which two UNIQLO employees spent five months in UNHCR India. The company
has also started employing refugees in its retail shops in France, Germany and Japan, providing
training for them, including language classes in Japan, and opening doors to further employment
opportunities in the company. UNIQLO plans to scale up this employment and training scheme to
benefit more refugees in the future.

102 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In Myanmar, UNHCR worked with partners
and the Government to protect and assist
approximately 100,000 IDPs in Kachin and
the northern Shan States, and 130,000 IDPs
in central Rakhine State. The Office did so

as part of an inter-agency response, and
as the lead of the protection, shelter and
camp coordination and camp management
clusters.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 103

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

Reducing and preventing
statelessness and protecting
stateless persons

30,000
stateless
persons were
provided with
Thai nationality
between 2012
and 2017 by the
Thai Government.

UNHCR made key achievements in the
region to prevent and reduce statelessness,
building on the progress made by the
region’s States in previous years. The
Government of Thailand provided Thai
nationality to just under 30,000 stateless
persons between 2012 and 2017.
In 2017, more than 6,000 people had their
nationality conferred through an ongoing
tripartite registration exercise conducted
by UNHCR and the Governments of
Indonesia and the Philippines. In Central
Asia, 16,000 people had their statelessness
situation resolved, bringing the total number
of people who found a solution to 36,000
between 2014 and 2017. The naturalization
of 1,690 stateless persons by Turkmenistan
in 2017 and a similar initiative in Uzbekistan,
which led to the naturalization of 930 people
between 2016 and 2017, are further positive
examples from the region.
Across the region, States made many
encouraging changes to refugee and
citizenship laws. UNHCR worked with
countries in Central Asia and across the

region to ensure people of concern had a
nationality and legal status, and to reduce
statelessness. In June 2017, Uzbekistan issued
a decree outlining procedures for granting
political asylum.
In Myanmar, given the violence that broke out
in the northern part of Rakhine State in late
August 2017, UNHCR was unable to make
significant progress in addressing the issue of
statelessness among the Rohingya population.
UNHCR encouraged the Government of
Myanmar to tackle statelessness and address
its root causes, in line with the Rakhine Advisory
Commission’s recommendations.

CONSTRAINTS

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Budget
•	 ExCom revised budget:
•	 Final budget: $598.6

$544.9 million.

million.

•	 Budget increase: $53.7 million / +9.8% due mainly to additional requirements for
the emergency situation in Bangladesh.

Expenditure
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked
Unearmarked
In-kind
-

Carry-over from prior years

Limited humanitarian access impeded UNHCR’s
work in Afghanistan and Myanmar. The safety
of humanitarian workers was of grave concern,
particularly for national staff.
Despite the generosity and good practices
observed in the region, only 20 of the
45 countries and territories in the Asia
and the Pacific region had acceded to the
1951 Convention relating to the Status of
Refugees and its 1967 Protocol, posing
challenges in term of legal framework to anchor
protection and solutions for UNHCR’s people
of concern.

EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC 2013-2017 | USD

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

16,893
151,003
80,527
38,904
1,818
473

5.8%
52.1%
27.8%
13.4%
0.6%
0.2%

6%
7%
12%
10%
6%
0%

289,619

100%

7%

USD | thousands

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income

TOTAL

•	 Funding gap: 52%.
•	 High concentration of tightly earmarked funding: 58% of regional expenditure.
•	 Shrinking financial resources hampered UNHCR’s ability to carry out comprehensive
protection and response, and to find solutions for different populations of concern.
•	 Regarding protracted situations, UNHCR’s ability to deliver key assistance was hampered
due to untimely funding and, when received, heavily earmarked donations.

400
350

2017 EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD
EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD
$290 million
$290 million

300
250

PILLAR 1
$222.6 million | 77%

200
Pillar 1

150

PILLAR 2
$8.8 million | 3%

Pillar 2
Pillar 3

100

PILLAR 3
$27.9 million | 9.5%

Pillar 4

Millions

50

104 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

7%
2013

2014

2015

2016

OF GLOBAL
EXPENDITURE

PILLAR 4
$30.4 million | 10.5%

2017
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 105

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Budget
Expenditure

Islamic Republic of Iran

Budget
Expenditure

Pakistan

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

79,923,684
42,601,493
97,246,544
35,123,148
63,732,140
34,237,355
240,902,368
111,961,995

235,000
139,759
235,000
139,759

39,774,421
10,394,926
59,048,254
17,491,276
98,822,675
27,886,202

17,928,784
17,010,279
4,057,808
1,347,602
21,986,592
18,357,881

137,626,889
70,006,698
97,246,544
35,123,148
127,073,202
53,215,991
361,946,635
158,345,837

Australia Regional Office2
China

Budget

Japan

Budget

Republic of Korea

Budget

Regional activities

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure

Budget
Expenditure

Kyrgyzstan

Budget
Expenditure

Tajikistan

Budget
Expenditure

4,258,921
1,967,195
681,910
520,526
1,577,403
1,076,043

1,308,364
932,373
356,279
345,743
770,329
644,062

-

-

5,567,284
2,899,568
1,038,189
866,269
2,347,732
1,720,105

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

6,518,234
3,563,764

2,434,971
1,922,178

-

-

8,953,206
5,485,943

15,124,166
6,577,829
7,229,512
6,320,162
5,559,272
3,294,468

106,270
105,570
680,619
636,626
60,166
17,708

-

-

15,230,436
6,683,399
7,910,131
6,956,788
5,619,439
3,312,175

27,912,951
16,192,458

847,055
759,903

-

-

28,760,006
16,952,362

67,581,999
49,605,720
7,173,894
4,336,050
18,008,274
7,725,662
17,782,489
3,829,238
713,572
653,346
32,074,574
12,305,242
6,609,980
3,242,566

14,216
1,055
26,500
1,327
517,314
342,135
7,704,243
3,171,029
762,240
676,078
1,174,516
937,666
718,572
424,720

-

23,675,468
10,536,901
1,603,281
1,461,812
-

67,596,216
49,606,775
7,200,394
4,337,377
18,525,588
8,067,797
49,162,200
17,537,167
3,079,094
2,791,236
33,249,090
13,242,908
7,328,552
3,667,287

149,944,782
81,697,824

10,917,602
5,554,010

-

25,278,749
11,998,713

186,141,132
99,250,547

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL

1
2

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

CENTRAL ASIA
Kazakhstan Regional Office

TOTAL

EAST ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

SOUTH-WEST ASIA
Afghanistan

OPERATION

TOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

2,995,884
2,369,665
2,939,472
2,274,940
3,396,541
2,968,214
1,610,187
1,399,418
1,453,413
184,563

5,000
4,614
255,614
218,459
64,927
60,672
109,813
103,421
0
0

-

-

3,000,884
2,374,279
3,195,086
2,493,399
3,461,469
3,028,886
1,720,000
1,502,840
1,453,413
184,563

12,395,498
9,196,801

435,354
387,166

-

-

12,830,852
9,583,967

437,673,832
222,612,842

14,869,983
8,763,016

98,822,675
27,886,202

47,265,341
30,356,593

598,631,831
289,618,654

Thailand Regional office covers Mongolia and Viet Nam.
Australia Regional office covers New Zealand, Pacific Islands and Papua New Guinea.

SOUTH ASIA
India

Budget
Expenditure

Nepal

Budget

Sri Lanka

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

SOUTH-EAST ASIA
Bangladesh

Budget
Expenditure

Indonesia

Budget

Malaysia

Budget

Myanmar

Budget

Philippines

Budget

Thailand

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Thailand Regional Office1

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

106 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 107

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | A S I A A N D T H E PAC I F I C

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO ASIA AND THE PACIFIC | USD

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

DONOR
United States of America

24,100,000

European Union

18,620,468

65,561

3,398,593

1,189,288

Japan

11,437,893
10,922,046
7,211,576
6,389,964
3,427,491
6,305,613
5,941,187
721,732
5,014,995
4,560,802
2,457,578
4,003,456

392,901

2,140,000
5,051,532
3,665,639

3,417,725

Germany
Denmark
Australia
Central Emergency Response Fund (1)
Sweden
United Nations Office for Project Services
Canada
Private Donors in Qatar
Private Donors in Japan
Norway
Private Donors in Thailand

853,111

2,449,989

2,022,639

Republic of Korea
Private Donors in Australia
Private Donors in the Netherlands
Private Donors Worldwide

Italy

1,195,394
1,104,746

Austria

56,632

China
Private Donors in Singapore
United Nations Department of Economic and
Social Affairs
United Arab Emirates

913,737

OPEC Fund for international Development

252,992
404,525
400,000

Czechia
Private Donors in Italy

300,000
229,885
188,904

Private Donors in the United Kingdom
Iceland
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS

108 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

3,190,494
1,393,356

149,009
1,755,413
19,664
3,286,952
986,193
3,000,000

950,000
1,161,440
1,000,000
1,017,942
100,000

140,000
130,000

111,963

Kazakhstan

Estonia
Private Donors in Senegal
Private Donors in the Republic of Korea

Slovenia

Lithuania
Private Donors in the Philippines

Private Donors in India
Spain

27,995
25,000
23,229
9,221
2,968
2,745
2,556
1,623

Private Donors in Ireland

TOTAL

287,902,574

46,458
35,377

Private Donors in Ghana
Private Donors in the Islamic Republic of Iran

134,842,753

50,000
50,000

Private Donors in France
Sri Lanka

303

60,256
58,962
53,130
51,099

Mexico

129,164,916

1,311,573

14,454,335

8,128,997

TOTAL

111,963
100,000
60,256
58,962
53,130
51,099
50,000
50,000
46,458
35,377
27,995
25,000
23,229
9,221
2,968
2,745
2,556
1,623
303

100,000

Private Donors in Switzerland
Private Donors in Portugal

ALL PILLARS

Note: Contributions include 7 per cent programme support costs, and exclude $2.76 million for implementation in 2018.
1
The amount includes $631,000 for refund due to changes of needs in the field.

1,011,091
598,309
523,013
201,104
48,410
377,759

Private Donors in Sweden
Private Donors in Oman

Kyrgyzstan

946,800

Luxembourg
Private Donors in the United Arab Emirates

17,388,519
17,059,354
10,877,215
9,580,458
8,123,947
6,305,613
5,941,187
5,591,621
5,514,995
4,981,806
4,212,990
4,023,120
3,286,952
3,008,832
3,000,000
2,891,639
2,884,063
2,567,670
1,978,892
1,428,167
1,397,794
1,303,318
1,250,000
1,161,440
1,056,632
1,017,942
1,013,737

1,011,091

Private Donors in Canada
Private Donors in China

Russian Federation

198,572
300,000

France
Private Donors in Egypt

23,581,081

1,978,892
1,428,167
202,400

Private Donors in Germany
Private Donors in the United States of America

128,800,000

2,891,639
2,884,063
2,567,670

United Kingdom

DONOR

307,172

4,869,888
500,000
271,995

TOTAL

104,700,000

1,085,776

Private Donors in Spain
Switzerland

ALL PILLARS

12,205
195,710

946,800
598,309
523,013
454,096
452,935
400,000
377,759
300,000
229,885
201,109
195,710
140,000
130,000

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 109

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

FOREWORD
In the aftermath of the 2015-2016 European
refugee crisis, 2017 was a year of transition
and relative stability. There were challenges
to collectively tackle and opportunities to
build on.

Europe

Unresolved conflicts in the region and
ongoing violence in other parts of the
world fuelled large-scale and protracted
displacement. Four years after the conflict
in eastern Ukraine began, for example, the
humanitarian crisis continued unabated,
with repeated security incidents at the
contact line.
Dire humanitarian situations drove some
refugees to seek safety outside their
immediate area. With mounting restrictions
on access to territory and to international
protection, difficult integration possibilities,
a limited number of safe pathways and
often lengthy processes required to access
them, many fleeing persecution around the
world were left with few choices, including
those trying to reunite with family members
in Europe.
Refugees and migrants continued to
undertake dangerous journeys, with a
significant number known to have died
or gone missing while crossing the
Mediterranean Sea in 2017. While this
situation remained a concern, the overall
number of refugee and migrant arrivals in
Europe fell by 53 per cent compared to
2016 figures. This was mainly the result
of fewer people travelling from Turkey
to Greece and from North Africa to Italy,
although arrivals into Spain increased.
In 2017, the number of asylum applications
lodged in Europe also fell by 49 per cent,
though 625,000 new applications were
lodged in 38 European countries, mainly
originating from the Syrian Arab Republic
(Syria).
© UNHCR/Christian Mang

110 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Ahmed, 37, a refugee from Somalia, in his uniform at
the fire station in the town of Fürstenwalde, eastern
Germany, where he has recently joined as a volunteer.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 111

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

Turkey continued to host the largest number
of refugees worldwide and, throughout
Europe, host communities showed great
commitment to engaging with, and
supporting, refugees. New partnerships
emerged with States, municipalities,
EU institutions, NGOs, volunteers, private
sector actors and academic institutions.
The range of expertise and services each
partner brought provided a more holistic
support network to refugees, better meeting
their needs and creating an environment
in which many refugees felt more able to
participate in, and contribute to, the societies
hosting them.
In 2017, UNHCR poured its energy into
outreach programmes. A regional refugee
coalition was established by UNHCR and
its partners, giving refugees a greater
say in how their protection needs should
be met. The coalition brought together
representatives from refugee communities
across Europe and gave them a platform
from which to share their opinions, make
their needs known and ensure their
resources were taken into account when
officials were drafting policies and making
decisions that directly affected them. The
coalition also aimed to promote concrete
actions to strengthen refugees’ rights and
enhance their integration in host countries.

While conditions for people of concern in
Europe did not always meet international and
EU standards, substantial support from the
European Union and national governments
meant reception and asylum processing
capacities were strengthened in some
European countries, many of which were the
first point of entry for people of concern.
The negative narrative and political
instrumentalization of migration and refugee
topics by some continued to have divisive
consequences and long-term negative
effects on refugees and host communities
alike. Such a portrayal of refugees inevitably
fuelled fear and discrimination and had a
significant impact on social inclusion and the
provision of holistic integration support.

SPAIN

ITALY

GREECE

22,100

119,400

29,700

via the Mediterranean
Sea

via the Mediterranean
Sea

via the Mediterranean
Sea

6,300

15,800

21,700

crossed the sea

were relocated
to other EU countries
by year’s end

ARRIVALS

ARRIVALS

ARRIVALS

UNACCOMPANIED
AND SEPARATED
CHILDREN

came to Spain by land

ARRIVALS by sea
increased three-fold
compared to 2016

ASYLUM-SEEKERS

11,400

	

GREECE

TURKEY

3.4 million

CENTRAL
MEDITERRANEAN
ROUTE

SYRIANS

were hosted in Turkey

346,800
REFUGEES

172,300
194 PARTNERS IN EUROPE

PEOPLE OF CONCERN IN EUROPE

Europe

	

15%
OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION OF
CONCERN

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

REFUGEES

REFUGEES
6.1 MILLION
| 55%
6.1 million | 55%

	 ASLYLUM-SEEKERS
ASYLUM-SEEKERS
1.3 million
1.3| 12%
million | 12%

146	 NATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
23		 INTERNATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
24		 GOVERNMENT PARTNERS
1		UN AGENCIES/OTHER PARTNERS

35%

	2,348 STAFF IN EUROPE

70%

552,000552,000
| 5% | 5%
RETURNEES (refugees & IDPs)
	 RETURNEES
(Refugees and IDPs)
600

21%

60+

IDPs
	 IDPs 3 million | 27%

18-59

3 MILLION
| 27%
OTHERS OF CONCERN
77,000 | 1%

	 OTHERS OF CONCERN
77,000 | 1%

7%

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

30%

0-4

42%
MALE

76

LOCATIONS

112 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

REFUGEES AND
MIGRANTS

and asylum-seekers
of other nationalities
sought protection in Turkey

TURKEY
hosts the world’s largest
number of refugees

arrived in Europe via
the Mediterranean Sea

18%

ARRIVALS
were children,
and over half were
unaccompanied

3,100

STATELESS
	 STATELESS
PERSONS

600

1.4 million

TURKEY

Director of UNHCR’s Regional Bureau for Europe

REFUG EES AN D A SY LUM -SEEKERS

IDPs by year’s end

ITALY
SPAIN

Pascale Moreau

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN

1.8 million

UKRAINE

MILLION

Europe
11 million

UKRAINIANS

sought asylum mainly
in the Russian Federation
and in EU countries

applied for other forms
of legal stay mainly in
the Russian Federation,
Belarus and Poland

were relocated
to other EU countries
by year’s end

CENTRAL
MEDITERRANEAN
ROUTE

	 11

495,900

UKRAINIANS

ASYLUM-SEEKERS

Nevertheless, Europe continued to
demonstrate a strong commitment to
its international responsibilities toward
refugees, providing financial support to
host countries and offering resettlement
opportunities and other complementary
pathways to people of concern. In this
regard, UNHCR called for continued efforts
to strengthen Europe’s leadership on
humanitarian issues and contributions to
global solidarity.
	

ARRIVALS

UKRAINE
SITUATION

58 %

REFUGEES AND
MIGRANTS
died crossing the
Mediterranean Sea

SITUATIONS
		
		 < 1.5 million 			
		
People of concern

FEMALE

1% %

		 > 3 million
		 People of concern

BASED IN
HARDSHIP LOCATIONS

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 113

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

MAJOR SITUATIONS
Europe refugee situation

More than 3,100 refugees and migrants
are known to have died or been lost at
sea making the dangerous Mediterranean
Sea crossing. Some 18 per cent of the total
arrivals by sea in Europe were children, and

The EU’s emergency relocation mechanism,
a scheme started in 2015 to relocate
160,000 people from Italy and Greece
within two years, expired in September
2017. More than 33,100 asylum-seekers had
been relocated from Greece (21,700) and
Italy (11,400) as of December 2017. Although
the relocation scheme only partially met its
objectives, it proved crucial in easing the
humanitarian situation in Greece, relieving
some pressure on Italy, and improving the
lives of many seeking protection.

© UNHCR/Andy Hall

Goodwill Ambassador support to refugees in Europe
UNHCR’s high profile supporters have demonstrated a commitment
to UNHCR’s work by using their influence, dedication and hard work
to raise funds, awareness and advocate for refugees. In December
2017, actor Theo James travelled to Strasbourg, France, to be reunited
with Housam, a refugee he had met previously in Lakadikia, Greece.
Housam was relocated to Europe as part of the EU’s emergency
relocation scheme, which aims to share responsibility for the
refugee crisis.
UNHCR high profile supporter Theo
James is reunited with Syrian refugee
Housam.

In Italy, UNHCR strengthened its
operational response through communitybased protection interventions, protection
case management focusing on protecting
unaccompanied and separated children,
and initiatives designed to prevent and
respond to sexual and gender-based
violence (SGBV). The Office also monitored
reception conditions, and worked with
114 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

authorities to identify and refer people with
specific needs to appropriate services and
supports.
Although arrivals in Greece decreased,
there remained significant challenges
regarding reception and registration
capacity. In response, UNHCR and
the European Asylum Support Office

supported the Greek Asylum Service
with a pre-registration exercise to ensure
people of concern had the opportunity to
pursue available legal options. As Greek
authorities progressively increased their
role in registering people of concern, which
included a larger presence at identification
centres in the Aegean Islands, UNHCR
reduced its operational engagement. In
2017, the number of people residing in
mainland sites fell from 20,000 to 12,500,

© UNHCR

In 2017, approximately 172,300 refugees
and migrants arrived in Europe via the
Mediterranean Sea, including 119,400 to
Italy, 29,700 to Greece and 22,100 to Spain.
An additional 6,300 came to Spain by land
via the enclaves of Melilla and Ceuta. The
overall number of arrivals decreased by
53 per cent compared to 2016, primarily due
to a reduction in the arrivals from Turkey to
Greece (83 per cent) and from North Africa
to Italy (34 per cent). Arrivals in Spain by sea
increased almost three-fold compared to
2016 and by land up to 5 per cent.

just over half were unaccompanied and
separated from their families. In Italy, nearly
15,800 unaccompanied and separated
children made the dangerous journey
across the sea, representing 13 per cent
of all arrivals to Italy (see the chapter on
Safeguarding fundamental rights). In July
2017, UNHCR launched a supplementary
appeal for the central Mediterranean route
seeking $421 million for the year.

resulting in the closure of 15 refugee
camps. However, with living conditions
remaining dire on the islands, especially
on Chios, Lesvos and Samos, UNHCR
strongly advocated for the transfer of
asylum‑seekers and refugees to the
mainland. More positively, accommodation
and cash‑based intervention (CBI) schemes
supported a meaningful transition to
self‑reliance for people of concern.

Greek islanders open their hearts
and businesses to refugees in “Dreamland”
The tiny Greek island of Tilos has a population of fewer than
800 people. In 2017, it became an example to the world after
residents welcomed 10 families from Syria. “Since I moved to Tilos
I have been calling it the land of dreams or ‘Dreamland’,”
says Kusai Al-Damad, who fled Syria and now works in
a bakery on the picturesque island.
Residents on Tilos have opened their
hearts and businesses to refugees.

Turkey continued to host the world’s
largest number of refugees under
UNHCR’s mandate, with 3.4 million
Syrians and 346,800 refugees and
asylum-seekers of various nationalities.
By the end of 2017, some 212,000 people
of concern from countries other than
Iraq and Syria (18,800 refugees and
193,000 asylum‑seekers) were registered
with UNHCR, with some 82,000 people
newly registered in 2017. UNHCR and the
Ministry of Interior Directorate General
of Migration Management launched a
joint registration process in July 2017,
eventually registering 8,700 people.
The Office also increased its support to
national service providers, particularly
the Ministry of Family and Social Policies,
assisting 59 social service centres with
social workers, interpreters, drivers, and
others. UNHCR provided technical and
capacity development support to the

Turkish Coast Guard, Gendarmerie, and
the Directorate General for Migration
Management on the identification and
referral of the most vulnerable individuals
and asylum procedures. To build refugee
self-reliance and ease their inclusion into
the labour market, UNHCR helped provide
more than 13,700 refugees with skills,
vocational and Turkish language training
in 2017. More than 1,100 students were
provided with full university scholarships
and over 6,000 students participated in a
higher education preparation programme
that will enable them to meet language
proficiency requirements for admission to
Turkish universities. UNHCR also helped
link up 875 refugees with the private sector
to support their path to employment.
Around 1,270 people of concern received
entrepreneurship and business training,
and 90 others were helped to legalize their
businesses.

13,700
refugees were
provided with
skills building,
vocational and
Turkish language
training.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 115

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

In Central and South-Eastern Europe,
more arrivals were recorded in Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro
and Romania. In Central Europe, where
anti-foreigner sentiment continued to
grow, UNHCR engaged with authorities,
media and civil society to defend the
right to seek asylum, ensure appropriate
reception conditions, access to fair and
quality procedures, and support for
integration, including access to health
care and education. UNHCR also worked
to strengthen asylum systems and build
national capacities in the context of mixed
movements. In addition, UNHCR focused
on ensuring the identification and referral of
vulnerable people, such as unaccompanied
and separated children, survivors of SGBV
and women at risk. UNHCR also worked
with governments, the European Union, the
OSCE and partner organizations to prevent
statelessness by addressing, in particular,
obstacles in the area of civil registration.
In Northern and Western Europe, UNHCR
focused on ensuring access to territory
and asylum procedures, with a particular
focus on child asylum claims, facilitating
integration, and preventing and ending
statelessness. In the Baltic States, asylum
frameworks, procedures, practice and
reception arrangements improved

116 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

following the development of laws, the
implementation of findings from training,
border monitoring and persistent advocacy.
In Eastern Europe, unresolved situations
and resulting displacement remained a
concern. UNHCR worked with relevant
governments to protect the rights of IDPs,
including their right to return to their places
of origin in safety and dignity.

Ukraine situation
In 2017, there remained
nearly 1.8 million IDPs in
Ukraine, while more than
495,900 people have
sought asylum, mainly in
the Russian Federation
(427,200), but also in the
European Union. At least
1.4 million Ukrainians continued to reside
primarily in the Russian Federation, as well
as in Belarus and Poland, by applying for
other forms of legal stay. In 2017, UNHCR
continued to advocate a long‑term strategy
focusing on solutions for IDPs, including
their access to full pension rights, social
benefits and social housing. Providing
lifesaving humanitarian assistance in the
vicinity of the active contact line and
non‑government controlled areas remained
a UNHCR priority.

Innovative practices in conveying protection-related information
In 2017, UNHCR piloted a regional border monitoring system, comprising two adaptable
questionnaires, to collect information, via tablet or smartphone, from people of concern and secondary sources
of information. The information related to four key areas: access to territory, access to asylum, access to
information on asylum, and protection incidents at the border. The system allows UNHCR to use the indicators to
monitor trends and create common data that can be compared between operations.
In Serbia, UNHCR partnered with the organization IDEAS to support the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Veteran
and Social Affairs in developing a professional guardianship model within the existing system of social protection.
Together, UNHCR and local authorities developed a training curriculum with terms of reference and manuals
for guardians and cultural mediators. These cultural mediators will be instrumental in identifying and conveying
protection-related information to people of concern.
UNHCR, in partnership with the NGO, Independent Diplomat, created the Refugee Coalition for Europe, which
brings together refugee representatives living in different European countries to ensure their opinions, capacities
and needs are taken into account in decisions and policies impacting their lives.

ACHIEVEMENTS AND
IMPACT
Safeguarding asylum space and
providing appropriate reception
conditions
Despite physical, legal and administrative
restrictions, people in need of international
protection continued to seek safety in
Europe in 2017. Given repeated push-backs
at borders as well as increasing restrictions
on access to asylum, UNHCR advocated
directly with governments and the
European Union, as well as through
strategic judicial interventions, to ensure
international standards were upheld.
These advocacy efforts had some success.
Asylum systems in key countries such
as Greece and Italy were strengthened,
and UNHCR supported significant EU
bilateral and national investments. Across
Europe, the Office promoted compliance
with internationally-accepted asylum
standards. UNHCR also worked with States
on solutions while simultaneously looking
to address drivers of onward movement
using an evidence‑based and participatory
approach.

Although several European countries
made significant progress in strengthening
reception capacities in 2017, conditions
were not universally at international
and EU standards. Overcrowding and
lack of capacity to identify and refer
people with specific needs remained
challenges. The situation was particularly
worrying on the Aegean islands, where
thousands of refugees continued to live
in inadequate reception facilities and
identification centres, facing risks related
to SGBV, hygiene, health and security. In
Italy, the increase in asylum applications
overstretched processing and reception
capacities. In response, UNHCR increased
its support for the asylum system, as well
as for people with specific needs, such
as survivors of SGBV, arbitrary detention,
severe physical maltreatment and torture,
as well as for people with disabilities, who
were identified in alarmingly high numbers
among the arrivals.

Overcrowding
and lack of
capacity to
identify and
refer people
with specific
needs remained
challenges in
some European
countries
particularly on
the Aegean
islands.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 117

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

© UNHCR/Yorgos Kyvernitis

Cash empowers refugees and stimulates
local economies
In 2017, through the Greece Cash Alliance, UNHCR provided cash
assistance to almost 40,000 people of concern in Greece; 85 per cent of
those reached by the scheme were Afghan, Iranian, Iraqi, Palestinian or
Syrian. Cash assistance restored dignity and empowered beneficiaries
to choose how to meet basic needs including food, transport,
communication, school materials and medicine, as well
as clothing and hygiene products. CBIs also helped host
communities by stimulating local economies.

activities were improved through various
innovative projects. For example, in Italy,
cultural mediators informed children about
asylum systems and available services, while
in Serbia a professional guardianship system
was established to support unaccompanied
children.
Recognizing the pivotal role communities
play in protection, UNHCR strengthened its
community‑based protection approach for
IDPs, refugees and other people of concern
in Ukraine. In collaboration with partners,
more than 400 IDP communities throughout
the country, including in non‑government
controlled areas, were mobilized to find
solutions to issues themselves or together
with host communities and local authorities.
UNHCR also tapped into, and enhanced,
local resources by actively supporting and
building communities’ advocacy capacity.
UNHCR facilitated peer-to-peer support
between communities, where 150 IDPs
exchanged best practices on working with
the private sector and local authorities.
Small‑scale grants strengthened the tools
and capacity of existing communities. For
instance, advocacy training was conducted
for groups with specific profiles and shared
interests, such as those living with disabilities
or in collective accommodation centres.

As UNHCR rolls out its cash assistance

programme across Greece, a Syrian
In Turkey, 480,000 people of concern received cash for
family visit a local shop to buy groceries
winter support both in camps and urban areas. Another
with the card they have received.
14,200 households received cash assistance for basic needs,
livelihoods, protection and education needs. Due to limited
funding, UNHCR’s regular cash assistance covered less than one per cent of refugees and
asylum-seekers from countries other than Syria.

In South-Eastern Europe, over 2,000 people benefited from CBIs, of whom 1,200 were refugees and
asylum-seekers, more than 500 were IDPs, and nearly 300 were returnees to Serbia and Kosovo (Security
Council Resolution 1244 (1999)), who received assistance as part of an exceptional return package. The purpose
of this unconditional cash grant to each of these respective groups was to alleviate immediate protection risks
and assist the most vulnerable with essential needs.
In Ukraine, an agreement with the national postal service allowed the distribution of cash by making use of
pre-existing systems for the payment of social benefits. Winter cash assistance to purchase primarily heating fuel was
provided to more than 840 people of concern in the last quarter of the year when additional funds became available.

Building and maintaining
fair and efficient asylum
and protection systems

118 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Child protection and SGBV continued to
be a priority areas for intervention in 2017.
UNHCR’s 2017 policy document “The
way forward to strengthened policies and
practices for unaccompanied and separated
children in Europe” outlined the specific risks
faced by unaccompanied and separated
children. Through a consultative process,
strategic partnerships, and community
outreach, SGBV prevention and response

© UNHCR/Bruno Galán Ruiz

At EU‑level, work advanced on the
reform of the Common European Asylum
System. However, discussions among
decision‑makers proved to be particularly
challenging on the establishment of an
intra‑EU solidarity mechanism to support EU
Member States under pressure, as well as
on measures to manage mixed flows. On the
latter, deliberations focused on modalities
aimed at providing international protection
outside the European Union. These
modalities included the proposed mandatory
use of admissibility procedures, including on
the basis of the safe third country concept.
On the basis of UNHCR’s December 2016
“Better protecting refugees” proposals to
EU institutions and Member States on the
future of EU asylum and migration policies,

UNHCR recommended the reformed
Common European Asylum System
include an intra-EU solidarity mechanism
entailing the relocation of asylum-seekers.
The proposal also advocated the use of
accelerated and simplified procedures for
manifestly well‑founded as well as patently
unfounded claims, ensuring rapid and more
efficient access to protection for those with
the former and facilitating the return to their
country of origin of those with the latter.

Securing durable solutions
In line with the spirit of the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants,
which calls for better responsibility‑sharing
on a global scale, UNHCR continued to
advocate in 2017 for predictable and
credible pathways for admission to
Europe. In 2017, 25 European countries
resettled approximately 26,400 refugees,
up from the 17,100 resettled by 23 States
in 2016. UNHCR provided comments to
the European Commission’s proposal
for a Union Resettlement Framework,
advocating a framework responsive to
global resettlement needs, reflective
of resettlement as a durable solution,
and representing a tool for protection
and international responsibility-sharing.
UNHCR also participated in negotiations
on the development of standard
operating procedures for the European
Union’s voluntary humanitarian admission
scheme from Turkey. These procedures
were endorsed in December 2017.

400 IDP
communities in
Ukraine were
mobilized to
find solutions
to issues
themselves
or together
with host
communities.

Family displaced three times plants
new roots in Portugal
Duret and his family finally found peace in Portugal, far from the
violence and persecution that haunted their previous lives.
At a ceramics factory in the small town of Batalha, Duret is loading
plates and bowls onto a conveyor belt, ready for the kiln.

The family stand outside their new home
in Batalha, Portugal.

“When we came here, we didn’t even know how to say ‘Hello’,
we didn’t know anything,” says Duret, straining to make his
voice heard over the steady hum of machines. “But once we
learnt a bit of Portuguese, we found there was no difference
between us and our colleagues. We all work together.”

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 119

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

UNHCR continued its partnership with IOM
and the International Catholic Migration
Commission under the auspices of the
EU-funded European Resettlement
Network. Through this network, UNHCR and
its partners helped develop complementary
pathways of admission to the European
Union, including community‑based
sponsorship, humanitarian admission
programmes and student scholarship schemes
(see the chapter on Building better futures).
Despite the right to family reunification
under the EU Family Reunification
Directive as well as in national legislation,
beneficiaries of international protection
continued to face serious obstacles in
exercising this right. UNHCR advocated
refugees’ right to family reunification as
an additional safe pathway to Europe that
reduces reliance on the use of smugglers.
The Office also mapped family reunification
procedures across various European
countries and, through its continued
partnership with the European Council
on Refugees and Exiles, organized a
consultation with legal practitioners on
judicial engagement concerning family
reunification.
UNHCR focused on facilitating durable
solutions for people displaced by the
conflicts of the 1990s, especially in the
context of the “Sarajevo Process on
refugees and displaced persons” and
its Regional Housing Programme. At the
strategic policy level, it also worked to
build authorities’ capacity to assume full
responsibility for durable solutions for
affected groups.
In Ukraine, UNHCR worked with relevant
authorities on the effective implementation
of an IDP integration and durable solutions
strategy, which was adopted in November
2017. There was significant progress made

120 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

in Eastern Europe, in the South Caucasus,
towards the integration of IDPs and
refugees by facilitating durable housing
solutions and strengthening social inclusion.

Another positive development in 2017
saw Albania adopt a law on the rights of
the child, giving due consideration to the
protection of stateless children and the right
to nationality at birth.

Preventing and resolving
statelessness

Strengthening external
relations in the region

There remain an estimated half a million
stateless persons in Europe. Thanks to
ongoing efforts in reducing statelessness,
about 10,000 stateless persons acquired
nationality in 2017 in Belarus, the Republic
of Moldova, the Russian Federation and
Ukraine alone. However, due to inadequate
legal safeguards, risks of statelessness
persisted in most European States.
Twenty years after the dissolution of
the former Yugoslavia and its related
displacement, some 8,500 people were
still at risk of statelessness because they
lacked identity documents such as birth
certificates.
As part of UNHCR’s #IBelong campaign to
end statelessness, which in 2017 focused
on stateless minorities, the European
Network on Statelessness—a UNHCR
partner—published a report on Roma
statelessness in Eastern and South‑Eastern
Europe highlighting discrimination
as both a cause and consequence of
statelessness. The report included a series
of recommendations for policy‑makers.
In 2017, Luxembourg acceded to the
1961 Convention on the Reduction of
Statelessness, bringing to 31 the number
of European States that are a party to this
convention. Luxembourg also amended its
nationality law, strengthening safeguards
against statelessness at birth, and securing
pathways for the acquisition of nationality
by stateless persons.

UNHCR strengthened partnerships with
United Nations agencies, NGOs, and the
private sector in order to improve joint
advocacy efforts, mobilize support and
ensure effective use of resources. The
Office continued to develop tools, such as
data portals, to improve information‑sharing
with partners, thereby helping ensure a
more effective and joined‑up response to
refugee situations.
An example of a creative, non‑traditional
partnership was the Refugee Food Festival,
held across 13 European cities in 2017. The
Festival was a partnership with the NGO
Food Sweet Food, but the event also relied
on the support of citizens, local authorities
and private businesses. Through a positive

© UNHCR/Xavier Bourgois

Luxembourg
acceded to the
1961 Convention
on the Reduction
of Statelessness,
bringing to 31
the number of
European States
party to this
convention.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

cultural experience, locals and refugees
were brought together, helping foster a
sense of community.
Together with UNDP, UNHCR co‑chaired
the Issue‑based Coalition on Large
Movements of People, Displacement and
Resilience, and facilitated the adoption of
common advocacy messages among the
Coalition’s members.
In Ukraine, UNHCR led the protection and
shelter clusters within the inter‑agency
framework for IDPs and maintained
close partnerships with the ICRC, OSCE
and NGOs in both government and
non‑government controlled areas.
In South‑Eastern Europe, UNHCR
strengthened its traditional partnership
with OSCE missions and the OSCE
Conflict Prevention Centre to secure
solutions for those populations displaced
by the conflicts in former Yugoslavia, and
through two regional processes commonly
known as the “Sarajevo Process” and the
“Skopje Process”.

The Green Refugee Camp:
a sustainable environment for refugees
and host communities

A volunteer from the Lutheran World
Federation plants seeds in a nursery at
Minawao refugee camp in Cameroon,
as part of the reforestation project,
“Make Minawao Green Again”.

The Dutch and Swedish Postcode Lotteries granted more than $5 million
in unearmarked funding in 2017. The Dutch Postcode Lottery also
contributed an additional $1.6 million to support the Green Refugee
Camp, an innovative project in Cameroon to create a sustainable
environment for refugees and host communities. As part of this
project, 40,000 trees will be planted to restore the local environment.
An estimated 25,000 people of concern will also benefit from work to
improve the sustainability of shelters and to ensure cooking practices
are more environmentally friendly.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 121

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

CONSTRAINTS
While UNHCR called on European States to
demonstrate more responsibility-sharing, as
well as solidarity, direct access to protection
in Europe continued to be restricted at its
external borders. Despite the existence
of a shared legal framework and common
standards among EU Member States,
the official treatment of refugees and
migrants varied widely throughout these
countries and beyond. For instance, an
increasing number of asylum-seekers were
denied refugee status based on national
security considerations. In Eastern Europe,
security concerns and economic hardship
dominated asylum policy, while national
asylum systems lacked the capacity to
ensure effective protection for the most
vulnerable.

Inadequate reception facilities exposed
asylum-seekers and refugees to serious
protection risks, homelessness, and limited
integration opportunities, contributing to
an environment in which criminal networks
could thrive. With limited legal pathways
available to people seeking international
protection to enter Europe, many felt
dangerous journeys were their only option.
Discriminatory rhetoric in media and politics
increased, with legislators feeling pressured
to pass ever more restrictive legislation. Too
often, this limited access to territory and
national asylum systems increased the risk
of direct or indirect refoulement.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Budget
• ExCom revised budget: $891.7
• Final budget: $827.7

million.

million.

• Budget decrease: $63.9

million / -7%.

Expenditure
SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

USD | thousands

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked
Unearmarked
In-kind
-

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income

TOTAL

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

39,082
342,743
53,743
49,068
1,998
9,845

7.9%
69.0%
10.8%
9.9%
0.4%
2.0%

14%
16%
8%
12%
6%
8%

496,479

100%

12%

• Funding gap: 40%.
• High concentration of tightly earmarked funding: 75% of regional expenditure.
• Overall expenditure increased from 52% in 2016 to 60% in 2017.

EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE 2013-2017 | USD

• The operations with the highest expenditure were Greece ($217.7 million) and Turkey
($149.4 million), responding respectively to needs associated with the situations in the
Mediterranean and the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria).

600

• The region’s funding shortfall limited UNHCR’s ability to deliver assistance and protection
to people of concern, particularly for those displaced due to conflict in Syria.

500

400

300
Pillar 1

200

2017 EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE | USD
EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE | USD
$496 million
$496 million

Pillar 2
Pillar 3

100
Millions

PILLAR 1
$461.4 million | 93%

Pillar 4

PILLAR 2
$6.3 million | 1.5%

0
2013

2014

2015

2016

PILLAR 3
$2.6 million | 0.5%

2017

12%
122 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OF GLOBAL
EXPENDITURE

PILLAR 4
$26.2 million | 5%

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 123

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | E U R O P E

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO EUROPE | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN EUROPE | USD

OPERATION

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

TOTAL

EASTERN EUROPE

DONOR
European Union

Belarus

Budget
Expenditure

Georgia Regional Office1

Budget

Russian Federation

Budget

Expenditure

Expenditure
Turkey

Budget
Expenditure

Ukraine

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

1,329,804
1,318,504
11,604,704
6,605,535

47,815
46,934
786,756
482,150

-

4,324,911
2,955,280

1,377,619
1,365,438
16,716,372
10,042,965

5,283,435

642,847

5,926,281

595,275
2,790
2,790
632,566
314,012

-

-

4,017,351
367,988,985
149,466,721
6,774,428
4,821,980

30,231,018
16,293,368

4,612,626
367,991,775
149,469,511
37,638,012
21,429,360

392,981,355
166,230,090

2,112,774
1,441,161

-

34,555,929
19,248,648

429,650,058
186,919,900

246,101,464

United States of America

74,000,000

Germany

23,157,246
10,329,748
5,378,175
4,123,557
2,800,000
1,543,612
2,342,938
1,886,792
2,369,668
2,388,535
2,265,676
1,163,295

Italy
Japan
United Nations Department of Political Affairs
Republic of Korea
Norway
Spain
Canada
Private Donors in Germany
Denmark
France
Private Donors in Spain

4,385,424
1,711,424

Bosnia and Herzegovina Regional Office2

Private Donors in the United States of America
Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

36,436,016
24,173,828

3,274,512
2,406,665

3,812,592
1,899,693

17,684,996
6,955,167

61,208,117
35,435,353

Budget

36,436,016

3,274,512

3,812,592

17,684,996

61,208,117

Expenditure

24,173,828

2,406,665

1,899,693

6,955,167

35,435,353

Budget
Expenditure

Greece

Budget
Expenditure

Hungary Regional Office

4

Budget
Expenditure

Italy Regional Office

5

Budget
Expenditure

Sweden Regional Office6

Budget
Expenditure

Regional activities

Budget
Expenditure

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

1
2
3
4
5
6

17,413,681
14,383,263
245,838,409
217,731,455
16,247,223
10,955,093
31,677,312
19,669,277
4,029,803
3,142,694
17,929,988
5,090,051

1,039,462
992,139
27,856
9,847
591,103
544,095
225,210
192,493
646,315
428,433
449,087
305,242

774,243
679,460
-

-

18,453,143
15,375,402
245,866,265
217,741,301
17,612,569
12,178,648
31,902,522
19,861,769
4,676,118
3,571,128
18,379,074
5,395,293

333,136,416
270,971,832

2,979,033
2,472,248

774,243
679,460

-

336,889,691
274,123,540

762,553,787
461,375,750

53,318
200,000

60,096

350,000
448,425
350,677
285,867

8,366,319
6,320,074

Includes activities in Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Includes activities in Albania, Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo (S/RES/1244 (1999)), and Montenegro.
Includes activities in Austria, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, the liaison office for Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
Includes activities in Bulgaria, Croatia, Czechia, Republic of Moldova, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia.
Includes activities in Cyprus, Malta and Spain.
Includes activities in Latvia and Lithuania.

4,586,836
2,579,153

52,240,925
26,203,815

827,747,866
496,478,792

Hungary

246,957

Council of Europe Development Bank
Ireland

235,187
103,521
103,000
100,000

Romania
Armenia
Private Donors in the United Arab Emirates
International Organization for Migration

91,805
82,745

Montenegro
Private Donors in Greece

71,786
65,000

Poland
Malta
Private Donors in the United Kingdom

53,318
38,429
38,100
30,380

Czechia
Serbia
Private Donors in Italy

25,607
24,957
18
10,239

Croatia
Private Donors Worldwide

17,046

Luxembourg
Azerbaijan
Private Donors in Austria

TOTAL

325,000
743,494
21,209

681,531
623,473

Russian Federation
Estonia

25,433,241
10,505,138
5,704,125
4,123,557
2,800,000
2,729,570
2,667,938
2,630,287
2,461,154
2,388,535
2,265,676
1,163,295
1,106,317
909,521
768,226
681,531
676,791
550,000
508,522
350,677
285,867
246,957
235,187
103,521
103,000
100,000
91,805
82,745
71,786
65,000
53,318
38,429
38,100
30,380
25,607
24,957
17,064
10,239
6,672
738

30
20,702

Private Donors in Japan
Private Donors in France

564,572
175,390

1,106,317
909,491
747,524

Austria

NORTHERN, WESTERN, CENTRAL AND SOUTHERN EUROPE
Belgium Regional Office3

United Kingdom

250,486,888
126,300,000

1,185,958

70,277

6,672
738
382,731,878

200,000

10,512,262

TOTAL

52,300,000

325,950

Sweden

SOUTH-EASTERN EUROPE

ALL PILLARS

55,398,219

448,842,359

Note: Contributions include 7 per cent programme support costs, and exclude $0.61 million for implementation in 2018.

124 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 125

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES

Middle East and
North Africa

FOREWORD
Violence. Conflict. Poverty. Political
instability. Trafficking and smuggling.
Mass displacement. These are some of
the realities faced daily by millions of men,
women and children throughout the
Middle East and North Africa. In 2017, UNHCR
continued to be appalled by the scale and
magnitude of suffering experienced by
civilian populations uprooted by conflict
both within their own countries and across
borders. Away from their homes, in some
instances for decades, many have been
forced to live in poverty and are almost
totally reliant on humanitarian aid.
In 2017, the region hosted just six per cent of
the world’s population, but nearly a quarter of
the global population of concern to UNHCR.
This responsibility continued to stretch
economies, public and social services, and
civil and political structures to the limits.
The humanitarian and refugee crisis in the
Syrian Arab Republic (Syria) remained the
largest in the world. Fragile ceasefires and
shifts in conflict dynamics restored relative
calm to some parts of the country in 2017,
enabling some IDPs and refugees to return
home. However, during the same period,
displacement continued within Syria and
significant obstacles to return persisted.
These obstacles included ongoing military
operations; insecurity; a lack of legal
status and documentation; housing, land
and property challenges; limited access
to services and livelihoods opportunities;
unexploded ordnance and mines; and other
protection risks.
In Iraq, while there were positive
developments, including the return
of large numbers of IDPs, UNHCR
remained concerned by the risk of further
displacement, forced evictions and revenge
attacks against communities.

© UNHCR/Vivian Tou’meh

126 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Abu Ahmad Al Shawa, in his fifties, has returned to
his house in East Aleppo, in Syria. Despite that the
whole building is completely burned out, Abu Ahmad
has decided to re‑open the doors of his restaurant
to receive visitors. His restaurant is located right
opposite Aleppo’s citadel.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 127

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

In Yemen, a destructive pattern of war and
displacement plunged the country further
into poverty and desolation. Yemen became
the world’s most acute humanitarian crisis.
A country‑wide escalation of violence left
approximately two‑thirds of the population
in need of assistance.
In 2017, tens of thousands of people made
the perilous sea journey to Italy, primarily
from Libya. Despite a significant decrease
in the number of sea arrivals in the second
part of the year, the crossing continued to
claim many lives.
Complex mixed flow dynamics presented a
growing risk to thousands of refugees and
migrants trapped in abhorrent detention
conditions in Libya. In 2017, UNHCR
saved hundreds of vulnerable refugees
there through evacuation operations.
With partners, the Office also conducted
extensive monitoring visits to detention

IRAQ
SITUATION

YEMEN
SITUATION

277,000

280,000

and asylum-seekers
were registered in
the region

and asylum-seekers
were hosted in Yemen

centres and continued advocating for the
release of those in captivity.

SYRIA
SITUATION

Despite insecurity and constrained access,
UNHCR remained committed to its work
across the region. It reached millions inside
Syria, providing protection, shelter, basic
relief items and health assistance. Iraqis
received multipurpose cash assistance,
while in Yemen, UNHCR provided core relief
items, emergency shelter kits, returnee
kits and cash‑based interventions (CBIs) to
families.

REFUGEES

REFUGEES

were registered in
the region

5.5 million
3.4 million

100,000
ARRIVALS

are the second largest
refugee population group
after Syrians in the region

were hosted in Turkey alone

6.15 million

in 2017 alone

2.1 million

2.6 million

IDPs by year’s end

IDPs by year’s end

1 million

IDPs by year’s end

3 million

IDP RETURNEES

IDPs were living in
hard-to-reach locations

The League of Arab States made significant
progress in drafting a convention on the
situation of refugees. UNHCR also worked
closely with States in the region, such
as Iraq, Morocco and Tunisia, to develop
national asylum legislation.
Despite the increasingly difficult climate,
UNHCR remained hopeful that global
solidarity and compassion would prevail.
While the challenges continued to grow, the
Office’s resolve to overcome them remained
unshaken.

REFUGEES

IRAQI REFUGEES

REFUGEES

SYRIAN
ARAB REPUBLIC
IRAQ

LIBYA

		

For women and girls, the situation was also
less than positive in 2017 with the result that
the Office issued ‘alerts’ on the high risks of
sexual and gender‑based violence (SGBV)
faced by this group.

*

YEMEN

Amin Awad
Director of UNHCR’s Regional Bureau for the Middle East and North Africa

	

	 16.8

MILLION

168 PARTNERS IN THE MIDDLE

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
THE
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Middle East andIN
North
Africa

EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

16.8 million

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUG EES AN D A SY LUM -SEEKERS
MENA

	

AGE AND GENDER BREAKDOWN
REFUGEES AND ASYLUM-SEEKERS

REFUGEES
REFUGEES

2.7 MILLION
16%
2.7 million | |16%
	 ASLYLUM-SEEKERS
ASYLUM-SEEKERS
23%
OF THE GLOBAL
POPULATION OF
CONCERN

105	 NATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
34		 INTERNATIONAL NGO PARTNERS
23		 GOVERNMENT PARTNERS
6		UN AGENCIES/OTHER PARTNERS

25%

| 1%
235,000 | 235,000
1%
STATELESS
	 STATELESS
PERSONS

	2,409 STAFF IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

50%

371,000 | 2%

371,000 | 2%

RETURNEES (refugees & IDPs)
	 RETURNEES
(Refugees and IDPs)
2.5 million | 15%

2.5 million | 15%

	

IDPs

15%

60+

IDPs
11 million | 65%

18-59

11 MILLION
| 65%
OTHERS OF CONCERN
15,000

	 OTHERS OF CONCERN

5%

15,000
CRRF COUNTRY

12-17

UNDER 18

5-11

47%

0-4

60%
MALE

64

LOCATIONS

40 %

LIBYA
SITUATION

165,000

SITUATIONS

IDPs by year’s end

342,000

IDP RETURNEES

		
		 < 1.5 million 			
		
People of concern
		
		 1.5 > 3 million
		 People of concern
		
		
> 3 million
		 People of concern

FEMALE

*

New Emergencies

38 %

BASED IN
HARDSHIP LOCATIONS

Situation
128 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 129

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

MAJOR SITUATIONS
Iraq situation

The Government of Iraq declared Mosul
retaken in mid‑July 2017, and announced
the liberation of all Iraqi territory from the
control of extremists in December 2017.

asylum-seekers. However, people
continued to arrive in Yemen, with an
estimated 100,000 new arrivals in 2017
alone. In spite of these new arrival trends,
the situation in Yemen was not conducive
for asylum due to the significant levels of
insecurity. Yemen remained a transit route
for migrants and some asylum-seekers,

The news resulted in large numbers of
IDP returns, but there were still 2.6 million
Iraqi IDPs by the end of the year. Grave
protection challenges remained, which
could result in further displacement,
inter‑communal violence and SGBV.
In 2017, UNHCR gave core relief items
to 1.2 million IDPs, returnees and host
community members, while more than
800,000 people benefitted from protection
monitoring activities, including outreach
to assess needs and to provide legal
assistance, provision of civil documentation
support, and referrals to specialized
services to IDPs, returnees and other
conflict-affected Iraqis.

© UNHCR/Natalie Schmidthaeussler

By the end of 2017,
there were nearly
277,000 Iraqi refugees
and asylum‑seekers
registered in the region,
making them the second
largest refugee
population group after
Syrians in the region.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

In 2017, UNHCR used CBIs to help refugees and IDPs cover costs
related to food, rent, and medical care and to help them prepare for
cold winter weather. Most of those assisted were in urban areas. In
total, CBIs assisted more than 2.1 million Syrian and Iraqi IDPs and
refugees, and 334,000 IDPs in Yemen.
In Jordan, the common cash facility (CCF) continued to operate as an
innovative approach designed to create efficiencies, with the ability to
be replicable/scalable across diverse operations. This common cash
arrangement, bringing 17 partners together, continued to reinforce
alignment and coordination between multiple organizations’ cash
transfer programmes.

A teller, left, distributes winter
cash assistance to a
Syrian refugee in Zaatari
refugee camp, Mafraq
Governorate, Jordan.

In spite of the
new arrival
trends, the
situation in
Yemen was not
conducive for
asylum due to
significant levels
of insecurity.

Despite danger, Somali refugees
in Yemen return home
For nearly a decade, Yemen was a place of refuge for Abaya Mursal and
her family, after they were forced to flee their home in Somalia.
“We had a good life here in Yemen. I didn’t have any problems here,”
recalled Abaya. “But since the conflict started, things became very
difficult. This is why we decided to return home.”

© UNHCR/David Azia

Partnering to improve cash assistance
to refugees

mainly from the Horn of Africa. UNHCR and
partners continued to provide protection
and lifesaving assistance to people of
concern living in precarious conditions.
Together with Yemeni authorities, the Office
registered approximately 3,400 of those
eligible for international protection.

Somali refugees on board a vessel at
Aden Port en route to Somalia in the first
assisted spontaneous return movement
from Yemen.

Moments later, Abaya and her seven children boarded the
boat that would transport them across the Gulf of Aden and
back to Somalia.

In 2017, UNHCR helped more than
4,000 refugees in the Yemen situation
access financial assistance, and more than
98,000 refugees and members of host
communities access medical services.

With the support of partners, the Office
reached more than 800,000 IDPs, providing
them with lifesaving assistance and
addressing their cross‑cutting shelter and
protection needs.

UNHCR campaign spreads awareness
about dangers of Yemen sea crossings
Yemen situation
In Yemen, acute
protection needs
doubled in 2017: an
additional 3.4 million
people needed
humanitarian assistance
as compared to 2016,
including more than
2.1 million IDPs and nearly 1 million IDP
returnees. Adding to the hardship in Yemen,

130 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

an outbreak of cholera resulted in the loss
of thousands of lives, and severe food
insecurity made civilians increasingly more
vulnerable. Approximately
12,160 Yemeni refugees live in Somalia
(6,428), Djibouti (4,157), Ethiopia (1,771),
and with small numbers concentrated in
urban areas in Sudan.

In 2017, UNHCR launched a regional information campaign in the
Horn of Africa called “Dangerous crossings” to inform people of the
risks posed by the journey to the Arabian Peninsula. The campaign
aimed to counter misinformation peddled by smugglers
and traffickers trying to lure people into undertaking
dangerous journeys, and was part of UNHCR’s efforts to
strengthen its messaging to people of concern through
mass information campaigns.

Despite the conflict and the dire
humanitarian situation, Yemen hosted over
280,000 registered refugees and

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 131

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

Libya situation
The volatile security and
political situation in
Libya continued to
impact civilians in 2017
and made humanitarian
access challenging.
While the IDP population
decreased, UNHCR
provided assistance such as shelter, food
and medical care to over 165,000 IDPs and
342,000 IDP returnees, including 1,220 IDPs
from the northern town of Tawergha. To
respond to these growing needs, UNHCR
launched a supplementary appeal seeking
$75 million for an expanded response
in Libya, which included $48 million in
additional requirements as compared
to 2016.

While large-scale mixed movements from,
to and through the Middle East and North
Africa continued in 2017, with Libya as the

main departure point, the number of people
arriving in Europe by sea from the region
was approximately 50 per cent lower than
in 2016. For more information on the Central
Mediterranean and North Africa situation
please refer to the chapter on Safeguarding
fundamental rights.

Syria situation
As many as 13.1 million
people were in need of
humanitarian assistance
in 2017, including
6.15 million IDPs. Nearly
3 million of those in
need were living in
hard‑to‑reach locations.
With the emergence of a few areas of
relative stability, close to 77,000 Syrian
refugees and 764,000 IDPs returned to
their areas of origin in 2017. These
self‑organized returns occurred without
facilitation by the international humanitarian
community, with UNHCR stressing that the
conditions for refugees’ safe, dignified and
sustainable return were not yet in place. In
September 2017, UNHCR launched a
supplementary appeal preparing for
durable solutions inside Syria appealing for
an additional $156 million to the
$304.2 million initially requested to

adequately address the needs of returnees
in Syria and scale up its operational and
protection capacity.

shelter, basic relief items and health
assistance, including through cross-border
interventions from Jordan and Turkey.

The number of registered Syrian refugees in
the region reached 5.5 million, an increase
of nearly 500,000 as compared to 2016.
The growth reflected births, as well as
the regularization of registered Syrians,
including new arrivals, primarily in Turkey.
As of December 2017, Turkey still hosted
the largest Syrian refugee population in
the region with some 3.4 million refugees,
followed by Lebanon (997,000), Jordan
(655,000), Iraq (247,000), and Egypt
(126,000).

Together with UNDP, UNHCR continued to
lead the Regional Refugee and Resilience
Plan in response to the Syria crisis (3RP).
The plan is built around government-led
national plans, cost-effective and innovative
programming, and a coalition of over
270 partners. UNHCR implemented a
multi-sector response, including biometric
registration, cash, health, shelter, wash and
livelihood support. Despite the generosity
of donors, the 2017 3RP only received
54 per cent of the funding it required.

© UNHCR/Houssam Hariri

Since fleeing war in Syria three years ago, 38-year-old Mohammed
and his family of eight have lived precariously in Lebanon on his
irregular earnings from seasonal farm work. The family faces rising
levels of debt.

Syrian refugee Mohammed surveys
strawberry plants in Jiyeh, Lebanon,
where he is employed as a seasonal
worker.

132 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

3.4 million
refugees.

Azraq, the world’s first refugee camp powered
by solar energy
Funded by the IKEA Foundation, Azraq’s two-megawatt solar photovoltaic
plant is the first such facility built in a refugee setting. It has brought
affordable and sustainable power to people who previously lived
with only sporadic access to electricity for two-and-a-half years. Now,
20,000 Syrian refugees living in almost 5,000 shelters can connect a
fridge, heater, fan and lights. They can also charge their phones.
Azraq refugee camp’s new solar farm
stretches out into the desert.

Most Syrian refugees in Lebanon
now destitute, study finds

Turkey hosted
the largest
Syrian refugee
population in the
region with some

Despite operational challenges, in 2017
UNHCR reached approximately 6.2 million
people inside Syria with protection services,

© IKEA Foundation/Vingaland AB

The protection environment for refugee and
asylum-seekers continued to deteriorate as
thousands remained trapped in abhorrent
detention conditions. In 2017, UNHCR and
partners conducted at least 1,000 visits to
35 detention centres, obtaining the release
of more than 1,350 detained refugees and
asylum-seekers.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

The plant has immediately saved UNHCR $1.5 million per year. The project
has also contributed to Jordan’s national energy strategy goal to achieve
a green economy by 2020, as the solar energy reduces the camp’s CO2
emissions by 2,400 tons each year.
In UNHCR’s collaboration with IKEA Foundation on the
development of this plant, great value was placed on
efficiency, innovation and the sustainability of the project.
Importantly, the plant has provided employment and training
opportunities for more than 50 refugees.

“I work here in the field. Sometimes I work for one, two or three hours,
sometimes there is no work at all,” says Mohammed,
“I borrow money to buy clothes and other stuff for my
children. We are big in debt.”

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 133

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

ACHIEVEMENTS
AND IMPACT
Across the Middle East and North Africa,
States continued to demonstrate their
commitment to improving the lives of
people of concern, including by enacting
measures to enhance access to asylum
systems, better protect children from
violence and exploitation, and to provide
durable solutions for refugees.

Maintaining protection space
and supporting access to
national asylum systems

200,000
people benefitted
from communitybased assistance
in Syria, including
psychological
support and
education or
remedial classes.

In 2017, UNHCR advised countries on
the development of draft national asylum
legislation and worked closely with the
League of Arab States on a draft convention
to better regulate the status of refugees
in the region. In Israel, UNHCR advocated
access to legal status for refugees and
asylum‑seekers and promoted solutions,
focusing on measures impacting Eritrean
and Sudanese nationals in need of
international protection.

Ensuring protection from
violence and exploitation

of registrations since 2013. Half of those
registered were Syrians, followed by
Ethiopians, Eritreans and Sudanese.

With more than 2.5 million Syrian refugee
children in the region, child protection
remained crucial. Key priorities included
strengthening national child protection
systems and ensuring non‑discriminatory
access to these systems for all children
of concern. The Office sought to improve
access to birth registration and best
interests’ procedures for Syrian refugee
children. It provided quality services for
those separated from their families or
who had experienced violence, abuse or
exploitation.

Regionally, UNHCR conducted refugee
status determination in accordance with its
mandate, while seeking to safeguard the
process’ integrity, quality and efficiency.
Community-based approaches to protection
remained central to UNHCR’s response.
In 2017, nearly 3,000 community members
were involved in identifying people
at heightened risk of violence and
exploitation, referring them to UNHCR for
support. More than 250 community centres
provided displaced people and vulnerable
host communities with skills-development
opportunities, counselling and legal
information.

More than 694,000 girls and boys
in the main Syrian refugee‑hosting
countries—namely Egypt, Iraq, Jordan,
Lebanon and Turkey—benefited from
UNHCR’s child protection work in 2017,
as well as from its broader psychological
and social support programmes. Together
with ILO and UNICEF, UNHCR completed
a regional strategy addressing child
labour among Syrian refugees. It also
organized consultations on strengthening
youth‑centred programming in Egypt and
Jordan.

In Syria, more than 200,000 people
benefitted from community-based
assistance, including direct assistance,
psychological and social support and
education or remedial classes. This
community‑based assistance also included
protection-related services, such as
community mobilization, child protection,
legal aid, prevention of and response to
SGBV, livelihood support, and services for
people with specific needs.
© UNHCR/Mohammed Hamoud

UNHCR strengthened its support to
governments on registration of refugees
and asylum‑seekers. In 2017, Egypt
introduced a new procedure and registered
over 50,200 people—its highest number

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

134 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In December 2017, UNHCR published
a report on good practices in gender
equality with a specific focus on Syrian
refugees in the Middle East and North
Africa. The report highlighted good
practices in promoting gender equality in
humanitarian programming and addressing
SGBV. UNHCR also completed a study on
sexual violence against refugee men and
boys to help ensure laws, policies and
services considered their needs. The Office
published the findings in October 2017, in
a report entitled: “We keep it in our heart:
sexual violence against men and boys in the
Syria crisis”.

694,000
girls and boys
in the main Syrian
refugee-hosting
countries
benefitted from
UNHCR’s child
protection
assistance.

Cash for shelter
In 2017, most of Yemen’s displaced continued to live with host families
or in rented accommodation, while others were forced to take shelter
in informal settlements or collective centres, such as unused schools,
health facilities, or religious buildings. In 2017, nearly 90 per cent had
been displaced for more than a year, and many of those living in rented
accommodation faced the lingering threat of eviction.

Qatar Charity increases its support for lifesaving interventions
Qatar Charity became one of UNHCR’s most valuable private sector partners
in 2017. The NGO contributed $4.5 million to UNHCR operations, helping reach approximately
170,000 displaced people in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Yemen with lifesaving interventions.
The Qatar‑based charity signed a five‑year agreement to donate at least $3 million annually.

From January to September 2017,
over 135,000 men and women who
had survived, or were at risk of, SGBV
received multi‑sectoral support. In 2017,
UNHCR strengthened the collection and
management of data on SGBV incidents,
including by using the gender‑based
violence information management system
(see the chapter on Responding with
lifesaving support).

Daris Al Askri waits to receive a UNHCR
winter cash grant at the Al Amal bank
in Sana’a. The 48-year-old was forced
to flee Yemen’s flashpoint district of
Nihm with his seven children after their
family house was destroyed. They now
live in a tent on the outskirts of Sana’a
in Dharawan informal settlement. They
struggle to meet basic needs.

For almost 40,000 of the most vulnerable families at risk of eviction,
UNHCR provided the equivalent of $200 in the form of rental subsidies.
The families were carefully identified by UNHCR field staff and partners
through home visits, mobile assessment teams or by staff at drop-in
community centres. Once confirmed, families received an
SMS with a voucher code redeemable at various money
transfer agents across the country.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 135

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

Pursuing durable solutions
In 2017, over 44,000 refugees from the
region were submitted for resettlement,
including 37,000 Syrians and 2,900 Iraqis.
The amount totalled just 7.5 per cent
of the region’s overall resettlement
needs (585,900). Of those submitted,
33,200 Syrian and Iraqi refugees departed
for resettlement.

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

UNHCR shared good practices and
discussed durable solutions—including
evacuating and resettling refugees from
Libya—with the chairs of the Syrian
Resettlement Core Group (the United
Kingdom) and of the Central Mediterranean
Core Group (France), see the chapter on
Building better futures.

As part of the practical application of
the Comprehensive Refugee Response
Framework and the process leading to
a global compact on refugees, UNHCR
continued to strengthen its relationship
with States and other regional partners.
It supported the development of the
Middle East and North Africa Civil Society

136 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

A UNHCR staff member takes an eye scan during
the registration interview for Isak (24) an Eritrean
asylum-seeker in the reception area of the
UNHCR office in Egypt.

Network for Displacement, which aims to
be a platform for civil society stakeholders
to protect displaced people and support
host communities. The network is due for
launch in 2018. Meanwhile, traditional and
non‑traditional partnerships mobilized
significant funds and boosted advocacy
efforts. UNHCR continued to seek out
non‑traditional funding sources, including
through engagement with regional
and economic organizations, financial
institutions, civil society and media partners.

© UNHCR/Andy Hall

Mobilizing public, political,
financial and operational support
through strategic partnerships

The Middle East Broadcasting Center Group (MBC), the largest satellite broadcasting company in the region,
donated $3.8 million to UNHCR through its philanthropic arm MBC Al Amal (MBC Hope). For the second year
in a row, a TV series about the life of a refugee family aired daily at prime time during Ramadan.
“Touch of Hope” (Basmet Amal) is a joint UNHCR and MBC initiative. It was one of MBC’s most
successful programmes in 2017. The programme helped in raising funds for UNHCR’s cash assistance
programme, through which UNHCR provides a monthly stipend of $175 to more than 20,000 refugee
families in Jordan and Lebanon.

© UNHCR/Scott Nelson

Biometric registration brings
efficiencies and improvements
in registration
In 2017, UNHCR expanded biometric registration across
the region, registering people in Egypt, Iraq, Jordan and
Lebanon. In Turkey, the Office provided technical support to
local authorities to assist with the registration of 3.5 million
refugees. Biometric registration improved the quality of case
processing for resettlement as it enabled the verification of
applicants and boosted the credibility of information shared
with the authorities of resettlement countries. Furthermore,
it facilitated fraud-proof cash and voucher assistance. UNHCR
also launched a new biometric identity management system
in Mauritania and Tunisia to improve registration procedures.

MBC and UNHCR give hope to refugee families

CONSTRAINTS

Goodwill Ambassador Praya Lundberg with
Sahsa, the youngest girl in the TIGER group.

Goodwill Ambassador support to
refugees across the region
Goodwill Ambassadors boosted the visibility of
UNHCR’s work in the region during 2017. Social
media influencers invited to the annual
Nansen Award ceremony generated interest on
Instagram, increasing the range and diversity of
UNHCR’s audience. Sea Prayer, a 360-degree,
immersive film by award-winning novelist
and Goodwill Ambassador Khaled Hosseini,
appeared at 15 festivals worldwide. Actress and
model Praya Lundberg visited Jordan, where
she shared her experiences of
UNHCR’s frontline work with her
30 million social media followers
worldwide.

Humanitarian needs in the Middle East
and North Africa outweighed UNHCR’s
response capacity again in 2017. Insecurity
and the fluid nature of displacement
made it difficult to develop sustainable
responses. The lack of safe and unhindered
humanitarian access continued to impact
the capacity of UNHCR and its partners to
deliver assistance in insecure environments.
Similarly, managed borders made access
to asylum increasingly challenging in some
contexts. Lastly, the increasingly protracted
and uncertain situation for many displaced
people, particularly Syrians and Yemenis,
resulted in the depletion of their financial
resources and often a reliance upon harmful
coping strategies.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 137

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

FINANCIAL INFORMATION

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

Budget

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

• ExCom revised budget: $2.17

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

• Final budget: $2.26

billion.

OPERATION

billion.

MIDDLE EAST

• Budget increase: $89.5 million / +4% due mainly to surges in needs in Libya, Syria and Yemen.

Iraq

Budget
Expenditure

Israel

Budget

Jordan

Budget

Lebanon

Budget

Saudi Arabia

Budget

Syrian Regional Refugee Coordination Office

Budget

Syrian Arab Republic

Budget

United Arab Emirates

Budget

Yemen

Budget

Regional activities

Budget

Expenditure

Expenditure

SOURCE OF EXPENDITURE

USD | thousands

As % of
expenditure
within the region

As % of global
expenditure by
source of funding

5%
70%
19%
4%
0%
1%

23%
39%
36%
13%
6%
12%

Expenditure
Expenditure

Carry-over from prior years

Voluntary contributions

Programme support costs
Other income

Earmarked
Unearmarked
Earmarked
Softly earmarked
Unearmarked
In-kind
-

TOTAL

65,282
848,233
233,272
52,103
1,980
15,356
1,216,225

100%

30%

• Funding gap: 46%.

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure

• The Middle East and North Africa region is notable for the very high concentration of
tightly earmarked funding: 75% of regional expenditure and 39% of UNHCR’s total
earmarked expenditure.
• Severe funding shortfalls and high levels of earmarking affected operations across
the region. In particular, operations responding to the Syria crisis were unable to fully
implement CBIs.
• In Yemen, limited funding reduced UNHCR’s ability to provide assistance across large
parts of the south of the country.

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

EXPENDITURE
EAST
AND
NORTH
AFRICA
| USD| USD
EXPENDITUREININTHE
THEMIDDLE
MIDDLE
EAST
AND
NORTH
AFRICA
$1.216 billion
$1.216 billion

Algeria

Budget
Expenditure

Egypt

Budget

Libya

Budget

Mauritania

Budget

Morocco

Budget

Tunisia

Budget

Western Sahara: Confidence Building Measures

Budget

Regional activities

Budget

Expenditure
Expenditure

Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure
Expenditure

PILLAR 1
$831.3 million | 68%
PILLAR 2
$1 million | 0.1%
PILLAR 3
$4.8 million | 0.4%

138 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

OF GLOBAL
EXPENDITURE

137,529,390
78,071,264
3,731,972
2,867,664
277,212,606
238,507,054
463,887,386
325,267,608
5,472,287
4,529,821
26,188,949
17,051,225
47,400,000
16,498,206
4,148,107
3,195,608
63,273,754
28,778,660
48,382,497
227,287

623,739
267,251
606,297
549,420
175,288
138,592
211,170
7,318
-

146,000,000
4,841,298
-

418,940,632
174,038,181
30,079,617
14,457,945
303,988,899
138,381,631
50,375,894
41,285,615
-

557,093,761
252,376,697
3,731,972
2,867,664
277,212,606
238,507,054
464,493,683
325,817,028
5,647,575
4,668,413
56,268,566
31,509,170
497,600,068
159,728,453
4,148,107
3,195,608
113,649,648
70,064,275
48,382,497
227,287

1,077,226,947
714,994,398

1,616,494
962,580

146,000,000
4,841,298

803,385,041 2,028,228,482
368,163,372 1,088,961,648

36,540,226
15,471,442
79,089,587
42,600,464
59,926,440
33,187,947
19,773,461
12,858,475
7,379,727
5,612,362
6,570,697
4,200,839
5,915,270
1,985,714
2,715,206
381,205

-

-

14,145,268
10,965,047
-

36,540,226
15,471,442
79,089,587
42,600,464
74,071,708
44,152,994
19,773,461
12,858,475
7,379,727
5,612,362
6,570,697
4,200,839
5,915,270
1,985,714
2,715,206
381,205

217,910,614
116,298,449

-

-

14,145,268
10,965,047

232,055,882
127,263,496

1,295,137,562
831,292,847

1,616,494
962,580

146,000,000
4,841,298

NORTH AFRICA

Expenditure

• In other operations, for example in Mauritania, plans to ameliorate camp infrastructure
were severely constrained.

30%

TOTAL

SUBTOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

TOTAL

Budget
Expenditure

817,530,309 2,260,284,364
379,128,419 1,216,225,144

PILLAR 4
$379.1 million | 31%

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 139

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | M I D D L E E A S T A N D N O R T H A F R I C A

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

EXPENDITURE IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
2013-2017 | USD
1400

DONOR

140,213

Private Donors in Switzerland
Private Donors in Australia

400

Pillar 1

Central Emergency Response Fund

Pillar 2

Private Donors in Sweden

Pillar 3

China

Pillar 4

Russian Federation

Millions

200

Poland
Private Donors in Kuwait

0
2013

2014

2015

2016

Private Donors in Italy

2017

Private Donors in Singapore
Private Donors in Saudi Arabia
Private Donors in Spain
Monaco

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA | USD

DONOR
United States of America
Germany
European Union
Japan
Canada
Norway
United Kingdom
Netherlands
Saudi Arabia
Sweden
Italy
Private Donors in Germany
France
Finland
Kuwait
Private Donors in Qatar

PILLAR 1

PILLAR 2

PILLAR 3

PILLAR 4

Refugee
programme

Stateless
programme

Reintegration
projects

IDP
projects

261,040,000
106,573,709
57,171,217
21,213,534
24,905,660
20,142,372
8,180,024
15,130,824
5,000,000
5,038,835
10,534,542
126,304
5,457,329
4,268,943
7,580,000
200,000

Country-based pooled funds
Australia
Switzerland
Denmark
Private Donors in the United Arab Emirates
Belgium
Spain
Austria
Private Donors in the United States of America

United Nations Children’s Fund

140 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

2,000,000
1,924,497

6,042,296
3,034,438
4,744,583
3,393,551
2,559,727
4,039,310
1,387,407
664,279
1,499,890
1,345,044
1,000,000
784,519
1,500,000

70,000,000
98,761,153
8,945,611
29,591,841
7,473,842
11,234,482
13,450,344
9,661,880
6,272,132
2,055,902
5,285,993
1,067,236
5,773,605
6,701,890
1,972,387
937,000
2,275,313
590,926
2,347,919
194,733
2,085,476
4,375

871,755

1,383,366
824,465
1,217,772
50,050
261,490
429,768
24,334
835,333
300,000
602,377
534,138
415,806
232,700
377,879
7,964
244,161

60,399
10,100
570,573
273,417

21,990
30,838

166,550,000
101,609,381
13,743,237
1,792,436
5,998,457
3,510,825

2,102,002
12,334,900
200,000
2,809,396
39,490
739,303

986,193
1,000,000
597,869

542,888
2,978,419
56,946
1,986,509
2,200,000
1,830,544

497,590,000
306,944,242
79,860,066
52,597,811
38,377,959
34,887,679
21,630,368
15,130,824
14,661,880
13,412,969
12,590,444
12,461,205
10,943,322
8,145,575
7,619,490
6,712,908
6,701,890
6,042,296
5,993,018
5,744,583
4,928,420
4,835,040
4,630,236
4,278,214
3,837,431
3,642,313
3,335,928
3,200,000
2,615,063
2,371,755

United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
Private Donors in Lebanon

162,816

118,064

187
58,072

6,425

Private Donors in Japan
Private Donors in Monaco

17,773

Lithuania
Philippines
Private Donors in Thailand

33,520
31,671
23,629

Private Donors in the Philippines
Morocco

23,229

Private Donors in Brazil
Private Donors in Turkey

83

6,663
1,600

Holy See
Private Donors in Greece
Private Donors in India
Private Donors in Oman
Private Donors in Austria

1,213
111

Private Donors in Bangladesh

597,134,148

3,941
5,000
1,685
1,257
904
671
278

Private Donors in Ireland

TOTAL

60,875
67,075
65,510
42,965
50,000
48,853

35,545

Slovenia

Malta

126,000
2,920
54,289

96,051
85,000
75,750

Private Donors in China

Cyprus

40,387
106,848
164,610
555
299,661

184,451

Bulgaria
Estonia

575,878

220,000

United Arab Emirates
Private Donors in France

1,036,670
812,326

203,252

Liechtenstein
Portugal

TOTAL

1,846,807
201,724
372,142

500,000

Iceland
Private Donors in Egypt

ALL PILLARS

TOTAL

140,213

Isle of Man

600

ALL PILLARS

United Nations Action Against Sexual Violence
in Conflict

Private Donors in the United Kingdom

Luxembourg

IDP
projects

150,000

Private Donors in Canada

800

Republic of Korea

PILLAR 4

Reintegration
projects

Private Donors in the Republic of Korea

1000

Private Donors Worldwide

PILLAR 3

Stateless
programme

Malaysia

Czechia

Private Donors in the Netherlands

PILLAR 2

Refugee
programme

2,000,000
1,924,497
1,846,807
1,585,091
1,257,005
1,217,772
1,096,821
1,073,816
1,000,340
873,628
835,333
800,000
602,377
574,525
544,644
428,148
378,434
307,625
244,161
220,000
203,252
184,451
162,816
150,000

Private Donors in Indonesia

1200

PILLAR 1

289,317,081

126,000
121,171
112,361
96,051
85,000
75,750
67,300
67,075
65,510
60,737
50,000
48,853
35,545
33,520
31,671
23,629
23,229
6,663
5,623
5,000
1,685
1,257
1,213
1,016
671
278

330,070,265 1,216,521,494

Note: Contributions include 7 percent programme support costs, and exclude $14.66 million for implementation in 2018.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 141

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

Operational support
and management

UNHCR’s Headquarters staff, located in
Geneva, Budapest, Copenhagen and other
regional capitals, work to ensure the Office
carries out its mandate in an effective,
coherent and transparent manner.
Throughout 2017, Headquarters’ divisions
and bureaux provided leadership and
support for field operations, including
through their responsibilities for the
following key functions:

•	 Developing doctrine and policy.
•	 Articulating strategic directions.
•	 Prioritizing and allocating resources.
•	 Ensuring organization-wide emergency,
security and supply management.

•	 Ensuring financial control in accordance
with United Nations and UNHCR rules
and regulations.

•	 Directing organizational development
and management.

•	 Monitoring, measuring and reporting
(including results-based management).

•	 Oversight (inspection, evaluation,
investigation and audit).

•	 Directing and supporting fundraising and
resource mobilization.

•	 Coordinating and directing
communications and external relations.

•	 Servicing the Executive Committee and
© UNHCR/Mitra Salima Suryono

other governance bodies, allowing them
to assume their oversight functions.

•	 Supporting inter-agency relations and
Robina Kolok, a UNHCR Associate Supply Officer, who grew up as a refugee
in Kenya after fleeing what is now South Sudan, has been temporarily
assigned to the Rohingya emergency operation in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh.

142 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

strategic partnerships.

Headquarters
The category of management and
administration reflected in the Headquarters
budget is comprised of costs required to
maintain the direction and leadership of
the Office. This includes functional units
for executive direction, organizational
policy and evaluation, external relations,
information technology and administration.

Global programmes
In addition to its country and regional
operations, UNHCR undertakes a range of
projects and activities of a global nature.
These global programmes are designed
to be implemented at the field level,
but are budgeted for and managed at
Headquarters.
Global programmes promoted innovation
and harmonized approaches across a wide
spectrum of operational activities, including
public health; HIV/AIDS and reproductive
health; nutrition and food security; water,
sanitation and hygiene (WASH); shelter and
settlements; education; livelihoods; and
environmental management and energy.
Registration and identity and information
management, as well as the suitable use
of cash-based interventions, underpinned
relevant, well-targeted programmes.
Interventions were guided by five-year
global strategies established in 2014 for
public health, settlement and shelter,
livelihoods, and safe access to fuel and
energy, with a five-year policy on cash
launched in 2016.
Technical interventions ranged from
ensuring a lifesaving response to enabling
solutions for refugees and others of
concern in urban and camp settings.
The programmes were carried out in
close collaboration with partners and
aimed to bridge UNHCR’s humanitarian
programmes with longer-term development

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 143

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

efforts for people of concern. They are
aligned with the vision of the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants
and the Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework and the Sustainable
Development Goals.
By way of examples of achievements in
2017, the global programmes contributed
to UNHCR implementing rapid, agile
and effective emergency responses, for
example through shelter by deploying
thousands of the new refugee housing unit,
and site planning and the deployment of
registration specialists to Bangladesh in
response to the Rohingya emergency.
They also contributed to improving lives
through programme quality, technical
integrity and innovation. This included
expanding the use of solar energy as
in the Zaatari refugee camp in Jordan
or for powering water pumps in Africa,

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

or implementing cost-effective and
environmentally friendly approaches
to sanitation, more effective identity
management, or expanding the use of cash
assistance. “Waste-to-value” pilot projects
in refugee camps in Ethiopia and Kenya
reduced the cost of sanitation services,
doubled the lifespan of infrastructure and
generated useful by-products such as
cooking fuel. In addition, UNHCR is now
tracking the cost of water supply through
a specific water costing tool.

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD
PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
ACTIVITIES

Expenditure

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES
Cash-based interventions
Durable solutions
Education-related projects
Emergency-related projects (including stockpiles)
Environment-related projects
Global Clusters
Health-related projects (including HIV/AIDS, anaemia, water & sanitation)
Innovation project
Protection-related projects

These and other examples are also
referenced and contextualised in the
regional summaries and thematic chapters
of this report. Tables and charts showing
budget, expenditure and voluntary
contributions in 2017 for global programmes
and Headquarters are presented on the
following pages.

Budget

Private sector fundraising
Public information and media projects
Refugee women, children and adolescents
Registration, data and knowledge management
Research, evaluation and documentation
Resettlement
Shelter-related projects
Training-related projects
Miscellaneous
SUBTOTAL

521,965
1,981,813
22,056,029
41,878,335
452,500
2,615,890
3,301,132
8,089,209
9,530,637
112,505,036
8,677,709
3,463,245
6,356,328
1,566,814
23,224,390
1,794,500
1,076,196
610,090

522,977
1,742,919
18,769,383
34,062,122
371,867
1,847,551
2,434,011
2,419,615
4,545,361
106,968,743
6,701,547
2,502,258
5,493,928
576,985
11,362,990
1,786,414
1,016,296
552,828

249,701,817

203,677,796

1,217,929
2,275,232
458,261
552,565

794,088
1,403,958
455,244
467,097

15,741,051
13,033,724
13,716,592
28,866,750
13,269,742

12,476,644
11,429,481
9,133,196
28,080,016
12,097,625

7,453,324
12,345,090
20,593,358

6,582,844
12,184,522
18,042,708

1,168,178
22,705,515
7,648,497

1,160,930
22,011,645
7,571,152

181,786
5,000,000

173,298
7,767

PROGRAMME SUPPORT ACTIVITIES
A more detailed description of Headquarters functions and activities can be found on the Global
Focus website, and more details on the roles and results achieved by global programmes are
provided throughout this Global Report in the regional summaries and thematic chapters.

EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT
Innovation project
Inspector General’s Office field activities
Legal Affairs Section field activities
Connectivity for refugees

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Division of External Relations Service
Private sector fund raising - investment funds and activities

EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES
AND HEADQUARTERS (PILLAR 1) | 2013-2017

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
DIVISION OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT MANAGEMENT
DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY

400

Emergency Capacity Management Section

350

Field Safety Section and field security support

300

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT

Supply Management - field strenghtening and support
Global staff accomodation

250

Special staff costs

200

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT

Training of UNHCR staff
Global support

150

Audit IPMS

100

Global programme
Headquarters

Millions

50
0

144 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

2013

2014

2015

2016

2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 145

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR HEADQUARTERS | USD

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME
ACTIVITIES

Budget

Expenditure

BUDAPEST GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply

1,858,014
1,406,554
6,837,680
617,376
7,613,311

SUBTOTAL

185,829,256

162,405,149

TOTAL

435,531,073

366,082,944

Division of Information Systems and Telecommunications
Division of External Relations

Executive Office
Liaison Office New York

1,464,774
7,009,173
621,529
8,634,329

Division of Programme Support Management

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

Budget1

Expenditure1

EXECUTIVE DIRECTION AND MANAGEMENT
1,871,854

COPENHAGEN GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER
Division of International Protection

PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME

Inspector General's Office
Legal Affairs Section
Office of the Ombudsman
Ethics Office
Enterprise Risk Management
Evaluation Service
Organizational Development and Management Service
Office of the Director for Change Management
SUBTOTAL

6,291,883
4,688,663
11,337,673
3,985,693
774,451
2,368,920
525,543
2,035,331
1,506,875
1,726,538

6,097,055
4,344,566
10,893,453
3,662,611
711,505
2,287,562
439,075
1,806,916
1,440,217
1,038,716

35,241,571

32,721,675

2,877,110
7,248,668
1,154,505
3,213,003
5,143,100
2,029,898
1,225,288
416,075
1,080,327
1,300,000

2,827,156
7,085,752
1,140,030
3,193,616
4,841,930
2,000,445
1,185,365
411,347
1,032,918
1,239,394

25,687,973

24,957,954

3,553,652
16,408,002

3,461,521
15,181,100

19,961,654

18,642,622

3,078,344
5,917,881

3,057,422
5,735,682

8,996,225

8,793,103

2,165,496

2,145,586

2,165,496

2,145,586

13,066,353
8,667,714
520,605
5,672,175

12,775,759
7,615,642
363,071
5,404,618

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Office of the Director
Donor Relations and Resource Mobilization Service
Private Sector Partnership Service
Governance, Partnership and Inter-Agency Coordination Service
Communication and Public Information Service
Records and Archives Section
Inter-agency Coordination Service
Digital Engagement
Events, Campaigns and Goodwill Ambassadors
Joint UN Activity Contributions
SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
Office of the Director
Specialized sections
SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT AND MANAGEMENT
Office of the Director
Specialized sections
SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY
Office of the Director
SUBTOTAL

REGIONAL BUREAUX
Office of the Director for Africa
Office of the Director for the Middle East and North Africa
Special Envoy for the central Mediterranean route situation
Office of the Director for Asia and the Pacific

146 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 147

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

BUDGET AND EXPENDITURE FOR HEADQUARTERS | USD

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD
PILLAR 1 - REFUGEE PROGRAMME

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

Budget1

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS
Emergency Response for Europe
Director’s Office in Brussels for Europe
Deputy Director's Office in Geneva for Europe
Office of the Director for the Americas

5,183,967
2,418,305
3,336,179
2,971,265

4,051,230
2,341,273
3,284,179
2,935,522

41,836,563

38,771,294

16,041,135
6,577,523

15,882,672
6,523,298

22,618,658

22,405,970

DIVISION OF INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Office of the Director and ICT fixed costs
Infrastructure and Telecommunications Service
SUBTOTAL

Emergency preparedness and response
Deployment of standby experts

Specialized sections

Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts
UNHCR e-Centre
Global fleet management
Emergency preparedness and response
Deployment of standby experts
Deployment of standby experts

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
Office of the Director

3,740,625
10,529,216

3,632,070
10,406,773

14,269,841

14,038,843

Mosquito nets
Forklift trucks
Deployment of standby experts

SUBTOTAL

Specialized sections and services
Audit
UN Finance Division
Headquarters running costs (including security and safety at Headquarters)
SUBTOTAL

Ombudsman Office
Division of Financial and Administrative Management
Division of Human Resources Management
Division of Information Systems and Telecommunications
Division of Emergency, Security and Supply
SUBTOTAL

DONORS

Refugee
programme

United Arab Emirates
Switzerland
Norwegian Refugee Council
Sweden
Danish Refugee Council
Japan
UPS Foundation
Luxembourg
Ireland
RedR Australia
United Nations Foundation
Sverige för UNHCR
iMMAP
United Kingdom
Private Donors in Switzerland
SUBTOTAL

6,769,746
6,123,087
789,052
1,111,889
15,126,042

6,600,442
5,978,942
789,052
1,111,889
14,808,969

29,919,815

29,289,293

3,616,667
130,082
4,198,994
17,386,570
2,968,467
6,427,398

3,550,200
107,673
3,949,284
17,245,161
2,675,000
6,355,853

ALL PILLARS

TOTAL

Nansen Refugee Award

34,728,179

33,883,171

Global Protection Cluster

2,612,454
2,487,000
1,521,000
1,262,500
1,235,500
322,233
408,110
313,808
218,500
211,500
168,300
50,600
45,500
8,500
2,305
10,867,809

215,092

215,092

2,612,454
2,487,000
1,521,000
1,262,500
1,235,500
537,325
408,110
313,808
218,500
211,500
168,300
50,600
45,500
8,500
2,305
11,082,902

DIVISION OF EXTERNAL RELATIONS
Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework
Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework
Comprehensive Refugee Response Framework
Nansen Refugee Award
Nansen Refugee Award
Education for All

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTRE (BUDAPEST)
Management Unit

Deployment of standby experts
Global fleet management

DIVISION OF FINANCIAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT
Office of the Controller and Director

PILLAR 1

DIVISION OF EMERGENCY, SECURITY AND SUPPLY

Deployment of standby experts
SUBTOTAL

DONOR
Expenditure1

Deployment of standby experts

European Union
Japan
Germany
Switzerland
Norway
Dutch Postcode Lottery
IKEA Foundation
Norwegian Refugee Council
SUBTOTAL

2,257,798
1,792,436
1,306,749
225,620
103,439
100,320
100,000
90,500
2,877,677

3,099,185

2,257,798
1,792,436
1,306,749
225,620
103,439
100,320
100,000
90,500
5,976,862

DIVISION OF HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
Renewable energy
Prevention of detention of children

Norway
European Union
United States of America

403,598
148,576
85,600
637,774

403,598
148,576
85,600
637,774

17,520,320

17,520,320

United States of America
United Kingdom
Educate A Child Programme

8,171,302
3,672,939
1,848,813

8,171,302
3,672,939
1,848,813

Said Foundation

1,109,139

1,109,139

Norway
Denmark
Norwegian Refugee Council

1,012,025
684,000
267,500

1,012,025
684,000
267,500

SUBTOTAL

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTRE (COPENHAGEN)
Management Unit
SUBTOTAL
Staff Council

4,667,699

4,442,515

4,667,699
1,085,426

4,442,515
1,069,082

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION
Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI)
Global Protection and Resettlement
Quality Integration Project - Resettlement

TOTAL
1

Includes allocations from the UN Regular Budget as follows: $43,326,060 (budget) and $43,326,060 (expenditure).

241,179,100

231,161,109

Education Match Challenge
Higher Education Scholarship for
Syrian Refugees
Enhancing Resettlement Activities
Funds for solutions activities
Deployment of standby experts

148 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Germany

Emerging Resettlement Countries Joint
Support Mechanism

International Organization for Migration

248,439

248,439

Higher Education Scholarship for Syrian
Refugees

The Hands Up Foundation

214,805

214,805

Protection Advisor

Switzerland

198,610

198,610

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 149

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

REGIONAL SUMMARIES | O P E R AT I O N A L S U P P O R T A N D M A N AG E M E N T

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO GLOBAL PROGRAMMES | USD

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

DONOR

PILLAR 1

DONORS

Refugee
programme

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO HEADQUARTERS | USD
ALL PILLARS

TOTAL

Higher Education Scholarship for
Syrian Refugees

Asfari Foundation

Deployment of standby experts

Save The Children UK

Sustaining the centrality of protection
in humanitarian action

European Union

Relocation of camp (Albania)

United Nations Department of Political Affairs

50,000

50,000

Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI)

KOR NCSOFT Cultural Foundation

33,326

33,326

Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI)

SAP (UK) Ltd.

25,000

25,000

Monaco
Allen & Overy LLP

23,697
16,171

23,697
16,171

Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI)

Private donors in Korea

11,109

11,109

Albert Einstein German Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI)

Private donors in the United Kingdom

3,750

3,750

35,390,787

35,390,787

Climate change project
Resettlement case law

SUBTOTAL

107,403

107,403

100,500

100,500

71,941

71,941

HIV/AIDS
Transport of Refugee Housing Units
Global Shelter Cluster, and cash-based
interventions
Deployment of standby experts
Alternative to Camps
Humanitarian-development nexus
Saving new-born lives, and from waste to water
Credit Guarantee Facility
Improving nutritional conditions of children
(IYCF)
Renewable energy

Denmark
United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
Private donors in the United Arab Emirates
European Union
Switzerland
European Union
Luxembourg
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
Sweden
La Caixa Banking Foundation
IKEA Foundation
SUBTOTAL

PILLAR 1

DIVISIONS/DEPARTMENTS

DONORS

Refugee
programme

HEADQUARTERS OVERALL

United Nations
SUBTOTAL

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER

1,569,881
1,178,580
1,115,475

1,569,881
1,178,580
1,115,475

893,593

893,593

870,921
413,722
400,035
268,867
180,986

870,921
413,722
400,035
268,867
180,986

76,886

76,886

19,667
6,988,614

19,667
6,988,614

Hungary
Private donors in the United States of America
European Union
SUBTOTAL

GLOBAL SERVICE CENTER DENMARK

DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL
PROTECTION

SUBTOTAL

United Nations Department of Political Affairs
Germany
SUBTOTAL

DIVISION OF EMERGENCY,
SECURITY AND SUPPLY

United Nations System Chief Executives Board
for Coordination (CEB)
SUBTOTAL

TOTAL

139,631
75,750
215,381

TOTAL

43,399,500
43,399,500
2,537,746

47,080
28,109
75,189

Denmark

Germany
United States of America
Denmark

ALL PILLARS

43,399,500
43,399,500

SUBTOTAL

REGIONAL BUREAUX

DIVISION OF PROGRAMME SUPPORT AND MANAGEMENT
Funds for solutions activities

DONOR

2,537,746

2,537,746
47,080
28,109
2,612,935

2,207,356
2,207,356

2,207,356
2,207,356

209,071

209,071
139,631
75,750
424,452

209,071

99,954
6,958
106,912

99,954
6,958
106,912

67,000
67,000

67,000
67,000

43,863,981

4,954,173

48,818,154

EXECUTIVE OFFICE
Education in emergencies
Instant Network Schools Programme
Connectivity for refugees
Innovation

United Kingdom
United Nations Fund for International Partnerships
USA for UNHCR
Vodafone Foundation
SUBTOTAL

970,732

292,684

970,732
292,684
38,498
3,594
1,305,509

42,240,000
42,240,000

42,240,000
42,240,000

45,846,962

103,622,448

292,684
38,498
3,594
1,012,824

GLOBAL PROGRAMME
Global programme

United States of America
SUBTOTAL

TOTAL

150 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

57,775,486

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 151

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S

Safeguarding
fundamental rights

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

Rohingya refugees crossing the border near Anzuman Para village,
Palong Khali, Bangladesh.

Many factors combine to force families into
having to flee their homes. These factors
include conflict, underdevelopment and
poverty, natural disasters, climate change
and environmental degradation. They also
include inequality, social and economic
exclusion, human rights violations,
weak or absent government, resulting
in the absence of the rule of law, violent
extremism, and the activities of organized
crime or gangs.
Protecting the rights of people of concern
to UNHCR is considered fundamental
to creating sustainable solutions to

152 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

displacement. While evidence suggests
the overall commitment to providing
all people of concern with protection
resonates today and is deeply embedded
in cultures and religions, translating these
traditions of welcome into meaningful
outcomes for them requires all parts of
society to work together to ensure more
predictable and coordinated responses to
displacement. It involves the reinforcement
of national protection systems, and the
strengthening of the capacity and resilience
of host communities and people of concern
to UNHCR.
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 153

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Guided by its mandate, and by its
2017–2021 Strategic Directions, UNHCR
continued in 2017 to seek to shape the
global response to forced displacement
and statelessness. The Office did so by
supporting States to address protection
challenges and develop national
protection systems, by placing people
of concern at the centre of its work, and
by working across the entire spectrum of
displacement, including with IDPs. The
New York Declaration for Refugees and
Migrants and the Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF) continued

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

to rank as important milestones for global
solidarity and international protection. At a
time when the principles and standards of
refugee protection were being called into
question by some, the Declaration marks an
important reaffirmation of the international
protection regime, founded on cooperation
and responsibility.
This chapter outlines UNHCR’s work in 2017
to strengthen national systems and respond
to the protection needs of asylum-seekers,
refugees, returnees, IDPs and stateless
persons.

STRENTHENING NATIONAL SYSTEMS
TOP 10 COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN | 2017

TOP 10 COUNTRIES OF ASYLUM | 2017

SYRIAN ARAB REPUBLIC

AFGHANISTAN

SOUTH SUDAN

TURKEY

PAKISTAN

UGANDA

6.3 MILLION

2.6 MILLION

2.4 MILLION

3.5 MILLION

1.4 MILLION

1.3 MILLION

57%

31%

Over half of the world’s refugees
came from three countries

Of the world's refugees are being
hosted in three countries

Syrian Arab Rep.

Afghanistan

South Sudan

Turkey

Pakistan

Uganda

Myanmar

Somalia

Sudan

Lebanon

Iran (Islamic Rep. of)

Germany

Dem. Rep of the Congo

Central African Rep.

Eritrea

Bangladesh

Sudan

Ethiopia

Jordan

All other countries

Burundi

As of the end of
2017, close to 140
countries had
national asylum
laws in place,
implementing
relevant
international
conventions for
the protection of
refugees.

UNHCR’s unique mandate and responsibility
continued to make it a leading authority on
legal matters related to forced displacement
in 2017. In exercising its responsibility for
supervising international instruments for
the protection of refugees, particularly the
1951 Convention relating to the Status of
Refugees and its 1967 Protocol—the Office
maintained its critical role in developing

154 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

international law and standards in the area
of forced displacement, including in the
context of mixed movements of people and
displacement as a result of climate change
and disasters. By continuing its strong
advocacy work, UNHCR worked to ensure
protection policies and standards had a
positive impact on the lives of people of
concern.

Many host countries maintained open
borders during 2017, showing remarkable
commitment and generosity towards
those in need of international protection.
However, protection space shrank in some
places, and persistent challenges remained
in responses to more complex, irregular and
mixed movements of people. A growing
focus on border control, together with
damaging narratives around people on the
move, had a direct impact on refugees.
Serious concerns emerged during 2017
regarding the approach of a number of
States towards asylum matters, including
narrowed eligibility for refugee status,
limited or no access to fair and efficient
asylum procedures and rights, and the
wide‑spread use of detention, including of
children, for immigration‑related reasons.
Prolonged, arbitrary and indefinite
detention of asylum‑seekers and refugees
continued in many countries. It had
devastating consequences on people of
concern, their families and communities,
and was also hugely expensive for
States. UNHCR continued to advocate for
outcomes in line with its “Global strategy–
beyond detention 2014-2019” on ending
detention. Key priorities for advocacy
included encouraging alternatives to
detention, ending detention of refugee and
migrant children, and ensuring adequate
conditions in cases in which detention
was a last resort. In addition to this work,
States, partners and UNHCR rolled out joint
initiatives that focused on moving beyond
detention. These efforts included a focus
on protecting and promoting the rights of
children, advocacy, capacity-building, and
monitoring. In some countries, the number
of children detained decreased in 2017,
for example in Malaysia, Thailand and the
United Kingdom, while the practice has
ended in others, including in Lithuania.

Detention monitoring activities increased
by 22 per cent during the reporting period,
and there was a 14 per cent decrease in the
number of children in detention in the focus
countries during the same period.
Many asylum systems faced growing
challenges, either due to the sheer volume
of applications or in situations where
people seeking legal residence resorted
to the asylum process because no other
legal pathways were available. The
Office supported States to increase the
efficiency of their asylum procedures while
maintaining fair systems. It also supported
States that had either started refugee
status determination (RSD) processing or
significantly increased the volume of RSD
they were undertaking. In addition, UNHCR
engaged in quality assurance initiatives,
together with relevant authorities, to
strengthen RSD systems. This included
work in the Americas and Eastern Europe
(see regional summaries). To assist RSD
decision‑making, the Office worked with
partners on country of origin information
products, and issued country‑specific
and legal guidance. Separate to States
assuming responsibility for RSD,
in 2017, UNHCR also received around
263,400 direct RSD requests, an increase
compared to 2016. The Office also provided
technical advice on addressing security
concerns without undermining refugee
protection within asylum procedures.

In 2017, a total
of 20 operations
worked towards
ending child
detention and the
implementation
of alternatives
to detention.

1.9 million
In 2017, there
were an estimated
1.9 million claims
for asylum lodged
with States
or UNHCR in
162 countries or
territories.

In recent years, UNHCR has been
deepening its systems approach—working
with rule of law and governance experts
and adopting practices consistent with the
New York Declaration and the CRRF to
achieve greater inclusion, and to support
the development of national plans.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 155

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

The 2030 Agenda provides compelling
support for the inclusion of refugees,
asylum‑seekers, returnees, IDPs and
stateless persons in national development
planning. UNHCR maintained its advocacy
with States as well as with development
actors for the inclusion of people of concern
in national development plans and all other
activities related to the SDGs.
Furthermore, UNHCR sought to strengthen
national legal frameworks, for the benefit
of all people of concern, by providing
governments, international organizations
and legal communities with guidance on
protection issues, policies and practices.
Achieving positive outcomes for people of
concern requires strengthening cooperation
with a diverse range of actors, including rule
of law and judicial authorities. Collaboration
on these issues with other UN offices and
agencies, such as DPKO, UNDP, UNICEF,

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

UN Police, UN Women and other national
and international rule of law actors, is also
key to wider support the strengthening
of national systems through humanitarian
interventions that are better coordinated
with the work of development actors.
The Office continued to advocate States’
adherence to protection standards by
offering guidance and practical support
and solutions, including in the development
of comprehensive responses. Following
the application of the CRRF, positive legal
developments were seen in countries
rolling it out. This included legislative
reforms in Djibouti, Kenya and Zambia
that will help ensure more refugees are
able to access education and employment
opportunities and to enjoy greater freedom
of movement (see the chapter on Expanding
partnerships).

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

FAVOURABLE PROTECTION ENVIRONMENT

Advocate the adoption or revision of laws
consistent with international standards

Filled 19 formal court interventions on the interpretation and application of legal
standards for the protection of refugees and asylum-seekers in 9 jurisdictions.
Develop, publish and disseminate guidance
on international refugee protection

Issued legal guidance on the applicability of article 1D of the 1951 Convention to
Palestinian refugees, the meaning of migrants in vulnerable situations and people in
need of international protection, search-and-rescue operations involving refugees and
migrants at sea, the seizure and search of electronic devices of asylum-seekers, and
the treatment of refugees recognized under the 1969 OAU Convention.

Work towards ending the detention of
asylum-seeking and stateless children,
monitoring detention conditions and
promoting alternatives to detention

Supported 20 focus countries to look at alternatives to detention in line with UNHCR’s
strategy to move beyond detention.

Jointly worked with ICRC on maintaining a civilian and humanitarian character to sites
and settlements and contributed to the “Aide-mémoire: operational guidance on
maintaining the civilian and humanitarian character of sites and settlements”.
Organized, with the ICRC, a webinar on humanitarian evacuations.

Advocate law and policy to protect and
respect the rights of people of concern

Built capacity of its staff and partners on legal and policy issues, including in the area of
human rights and mixed movements; and engaged with regional and national legislative
and judicial processes, as well as actors.

Developed an e-learning package on immigration detention and 2 blended learning
programmes on monitoring immigration detention and reception, care arrangements,
and alternatives to detention for children and families.
Delivered 3 regional workshops for staff and partners in Asia and the Pacific,
the Americas and Europe on immigration detention.

FAIR PROTECTION PROCESSES AND DOCUMENTATION
IMPROVE ACCESS TO AND QUALITY OF STATUS DETERMINATION PROCEDURES. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Further develop and oversee the
implementation of policies, guidance,
standards and procedures relating to RSD

Piloted a project in Malawi to assess the capacities of institutions engaged in that
country’s asylum system.
Updated key guidance in UNHCR’s manual “Procedural Standards for RSD under
UNHCR’s mandate” and issued new guidance on RSD processing.
Provided legal, procedural and operational guidance to governments, staff and partners
on RSD eligibility standards and procedures, including in the areas of exclusion,
cancellation, extradition and matters relating to the civilian and humanitarian character
of asylum.

Strengthen the capacity of UNHCR RSD
staff and operations, including through
deployments

Developed a new e-learning programme to serve as induction for new RSD staff.
Conducted RSD-specific training, including 2 sessions of the RSD learning programme,
which benefitted 60 staff.
Deployed 9 RSD experts to operations.

WORK TO DEVELOP OR STRENGTHEN LAW AND POLICY. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Advocate and enhance the protection
and security of people of concern

Supported 80 legislative processes pertaining to refugee protection, the conclusion of
an Arab League convention on refugees and the ongoing revision of legal instruments
on asylum in the EU.

Rolled out a new interview learning programme in 6 operations, benefiting 126 staff
involved in interviewing people for RSD and resettlement purposes.
Provide decision-makers on asylum claims
access to up-to-date country-of-origin
information and country-specific policy
guidance

Published country-specific guidance on Pakistan and the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria),
and other legal and policy documents, as well as, together with partners, country
of origin information products. Updated country of origin information collection on
Refworld.
Launched the RSD Practitioners’ Platform, a new internal electronic community aimed at
facilitating private cooperation and exchange between RSD staff.

Provided blank convention travel documents to States as a transitional measure, using
its existing stock, until States could issue their own. A total of 13 non-State parties
established practices to provide travel documents to refugees and stateless persons.
Of them, 6 States issued such documents in line with international aviation standards.
Made 33 country submissions to the universal periodic review (UPR), 113 to the United
Nations Human Rights Treaty Bodies, and 25 oral briefings to these bodies.
Organized 12 webinars for staff on how to engage with the UPR and the United Nations
Human Rights Treaty Bodies.
Prepared 104 country-specific feedback reports on human rights mechanisms’ processes
in support of UNHCR’s advocacy.

156 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 157

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

ADDRESSING AND RESPONDING TO MIXED MOVEMENTS
© UNHCR/Béla Szandelszky

An Italian Coast Guard officer stands on the front of a boat after rescuing sub-Saharan African asylum-seekers during a night operation in
the Mediterranean Sea, some 50 nautical miles off the coast of Libya.

175,500
Refugees and
migrants arrived
in Europe via sea
routes from Africa
in 2017.

Human mobility has become increasingly
complex in recent years. In 2017, mixed
movements occurred in several regions,
including across the Mediterranean; from
the Great Lakes and the Horn of Africa
towards Southern Africa; across the Red
Sea and the Gulf of Aden to Yemen; across
the North of Central America; and across
Asia and the Pacific. Refugees and migrants
faced many of the same risks when
undertaking journeys in search of better
opportunities. The routes they used were
fraught with danger, including travel on
unseaworthy boats and through scorching

158 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

deserts. Smuggling and trafficking were
significant challenges facing not only
refugees and migrants themselves, but also
States and societies in 2017.

Representative of the Secretary-General
for International Migration and other
partners on the complementary of the
two compacts, despite being elaborated
by distinct and independent processes.
Furthermore, the New York Declaration
included commitments that apply to both
refugees and migrants, including one
to intensify international cooperation
on the strengthening of search-andrescue mechanisms. In 2017, UNHCR
issued general legal considerations on
search‑and‑rescue missions involving
refugees and migrants at sea.
To support States and other actors in
addressing mixed movements, UNHCR
updated its “10‑point plan of action on
refugee protection and mixed migration”,
which provides tools and practical guidance
to help identify and respond to the needs
of people on the move who are at risk,
or have international protection and/or
special needs. This guidance includes
best practices from Europe, and countries
such as Morocco, Sudan and Thailand

on responding to the needs of victims
of trafficking, as well as guidance on the
identification and protection of victims. In
the framework of the negotiations related
to the global compact for migration, the
Office issued guidance related to people
in need of international protection as well
as on migrants in vulnerable situations. In
addition, in early 2017 UNHCR launched a
campaign to raise awareness of the risks
of crossing the Gulf of Aden and the Red
Sea from Africa to Yemen, highlighting
the danger of the journey and insecurity
upon arrival (see Middle East and
North Africa regional summary).
UNHCR, together with UNICEF and other
partners, continued to provide support at
special “Blue Dots” hubs to refugees and
migrants families along the most frequented
routes to Europe. These hubs provided
access to safe, child‑friendly spaces, as
well as private rooms for psychological
and social support, and also offered legal
counselling, services to restore family links
and an information desk.

Some 45,000
asylum
applications from
unaccompanied
and separated
children on the
move, mainly
Afghans and
Syrians, were
lodged in 67
countries in 2017.

The New York Declaration, which was
adopted in 2016, envisaged relevant
stakeholders, including UNHCR, would
contribute to developing the global
compact for safe, orderly and regular
migration, as well as to the elaboration of
non‑binding principles on the treatment
of migrants in vulnerable situations.
As a result, UNHCR has continued
working with the Office of the Special

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 159

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Responding to the international protection needs of people in
mixed movements along the central Mediterranean route
The majority of
refugees and
migrants arriving
in Italy by sea are
from sub-Saharan
Africa. In 2017,
11 per cent of the
total arrivals were
from East and Horn
of Africa, while
approximately
41 per cent were
from West Africa
and 10 per cent
from North Africa.

Of all mixed-movement situations,
the central Mediterranean route from
sub-Saharan Africa to Italy was one of the
most active and dangerous for refugees

and migrants seeking to reach Europe. It
accounted for the largest number of people
crossing to Europe by sea, with Libya the
main point of departure.

ARRIVALS TO ITALY BY SEA-DEAD OR MISSING
IN THE CENTRAL MEDITERRANEAN | 2017

Given the scale and complexity of these
movements, the High Commissioner
appointed a Special Envoy to enhance
coordination and cooperation mechanisms,
and to support joined‑up approaches to
solutions, including through the CRRF.
The Special Envoy’s risk mitigation strategy,
launched in October 2017, has three
broad objectives and targeted activities in
countries of origin, transit and destination
in sub‑Saharan Africa, North Africa and
Europe. These are:

•	 Addressing protection risks along
Arrivals

migration routes in the region.

Dead or missing

•	 Enhancing the protection space in
transit countries to provide meaningful
alternatives to a dangerous journeys.

153,842 | 2,913

2015

•	 Identifying lasting solutions in

181,436 | 4,578

cooperation and coordination with
concerned authorities and partners.

2016
119,369 | 2,873
2017

Seeking to encourage meaningful
discussions between countries of origin
and destination on key protection issues,
UNHCR initiated a dialogue with countries
in West Africa and Europe to address
issues such as civil registration and
documentation, transnational programming
for victims of trafficking, missing
people along the routes, measures for
unaccompanied or separated children on
the move, and diaspora engagement.
The last quarter of the year saw progress
as countries of origin increased efforts
to provide their citizens abroad with
documentation. Anti-trafficking advocacy
was also central to UNHCR’s efforts
to reduce risks. UNHCR’s specific
recommendations on anti-trafficking
and assistance to victims of trafficking
influenced decisions taken by States and
led to increased remedial actions in Egypt,
Niger and Sudan, but extensive work
remains to be done.

Communicating with communities
Stepping up its efforts to address protection risks along mixed
migration routes, UNHCR invested in information campaigns and
communication with community initiatives, such as the Telling the
Real Story project.

160 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 161

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

EVACUATIONS FROM LIBYA | 2017

RESETTLEMENT NEEDS | 2017

NOVEMBER 2017

DECEMBER 2017

389
EVACUATIONS

162
227

277,000

LIBYA > ITALY
TUNISIA
MOROCCO

LIBYA > NIGER

ALGERIA

MAURITANIA

Particularly in Niger, UNHCR increased
reception capacity and improved service
provision to asylum‑seekers. Also in
Niger, efforts to find lasting solutions for
people of concern on the move included
the establishment of an emergency
transit mechanism (ETM), to facilitate
the evacuation of extremely vulnerable
asylum-seekers and refugees from Libya
for onward resettlement. Libya also made
progress, with the authorities allowing the
opening of a transit and departure centre

for refugees in Tripoli, increasing UNHCR’s
protection and solutions outreach. Refugees
and asylum-seekers stranded in Libya
were either evacuated through the ETM in
Niger through humanitarian evacuations
sponsored by the Italian Government, or
directly out of Libya for resettlement. IDP
response in Libya was also enhanced, with
significant progress made in implementing
quick impact projects for Libyan IDPs and
returnees.

“Refugee evacuations can only be part of broader asylum-building and
migration-management efforts to address the complex movement
of migrants and refugees who embark on perilous journeys across the Sahara
Desert and the Mediterranean Sea. There is a clear need to create more
regular and safe ways for refugees to find safety and international protection,
and to address the root causes and drivers of forced displacement.”
—Vincent Cochetel, UNHCR Special Envoy for the central Mediterranean route situation

162 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
IN NEED OF RESETTLEMENT
IN 15 PRIORITY COUNTRIES

MALI

LIBYA

NIGER

CHAD

EGYPT

SUDAN
DJIBOUTI

BURKINA
FASO

ETHIOPIA
CAMEROON
KENYA

17,000
> of which 12% of resettlement needs
are met in North Africa priority
countries of asylum

260,000
> of which 3% of resettlement needs
are met in sub-Saharan Africa priority
countries of asylum

From a cross‑regional perspective,
UNHCR stepped up efforts to better
identify and document mixed-movement
issues, including protection incidents
along routes. In August 2017, a Central
Mediterranean Core Group for enhanced
resettlement and complementary pathways
was established, becoming an important
forum for UNHCR advocacy for meaningful
alternatives to dangerous journeys. Nearly
17,000 resettlement pledges were received
for the 15 priority countries of asylum for
the central Mediterranean situation (see the
chapter on Building better futures).

Overall, despite some success, in many
countries of origin few, if any, of the drivers
for mixed movements were resolved.
This means there was little chance for
sustainable returns and a high chance of
continued outflows. For those with the
option of repatriation, a lack of reintegration
assistance was a challenge. For those
unable to return, solutions beyond voluntary
repatriation, including resettlement and
complementary legal pathways such as
family reunification, were insufficient.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 163

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

UNDERSTANDING THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE OF CONCERN
© UNHCR/Sam Jefferies

Biometric data is collected during registration with UNHCR in Jakarta, Indonesia.

During flight, some people face heightened
protection risks and barriers to accessing
rights. Among the most vulnerable are
women and children, unaccompanied and
separated children, survivors of sexual and
gender-based violence (SGBV), people
with disabilities, people with diverse
sexual orientation and gender identity,
and minority groups. Protection responses
must consider the specific needs and
capacities of people. To achieve this, in
2017, UNHCR improved its information and
data management to support protection
analysis, longer-term protection and
solutions planning, as well as prioritized
the protection of people most at risk and
promoted gender equality in different
regions worldwide.

164 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Identity management
and registration
Access to accurate and up‑to‑date
information on people of concern to
UNHCR is crucial to responding efficiently
with targeted humanitarian assistance. In
line with its 2017–2021 Strategic Directions,
the Office strengthened its position as
an authority on identity management
standards and systems to improve
humanitarian and development responses
to forced displacement.

Registration
UNHCR harmonized data activities and
enhanced interoperable systems for identity
and case management. As of the end of
2017, UNHCR had rolled out its web-based
case management database, proGres in
Partnership (proGres v4), in 37 countries.
More than 4.4 million refugees and
asylum-seekers have been biometrically
enrolled in 48 countries using UNHCR’s
biometric systems, such as the biometric
identity management system (BIMS) or
IrisGuard. By doing so, UNHCR helped
partners and host governments to
standardize registration and case
management practices. The Office is
currently on track to achieve its Grand
Bargain commitment of 75 countries
benefiting from biometric identity
management systems by 2020. UNHCR also
continued discussions with resettlement
States, IOM, and WFP on registration
data-sharing and the technical interoperability
of systems, for greater efficiencies and
integrity in processing. (For more information
on comprehensive solutions, see the chapter
on Building better futures).

UNHCR implemented a mobile data
collection tool that yielded invaluable
identity and needs data for the Rohingya
refugee emergency response (see the
chapter on Responding with lifesaving
support). The registration exercise enabled
UNHCR and partners to better understand
the size and breakdown of the population,
where people were located, and their
protection needs from the onset of the
emergency. Such information was key to
getting the right aid to the right people.
The data collected was also used to
streamline and verify refugee identities
for the distribution of emergency relief
items. Aggregated data from the exercise
was also shared with partners to improve
evidence‑based planning and programming
and ensure timely protection interventions.

760,000
Mobile
technology
allowed data
collection with
the GPS tagging
of family shelters
for over 760,000
Rohingya
refugees in
Bangladesh.
This resulted in
more coordinated,
targeted
responses for
the delivery
of protection
and lifesaving
assistance.

Identity management

Innovative cash
technologies

UNHCR established itself as a critical
player in identity management and in
leveraging digital systems. The Office
developed and fostered new strategic
partnerships—including with international
development actors, States, civil society
and private sector service providers.
These partnerships promoted a shared
understanding of identity and the
benefits of identity-related technology in
empowering refugees, displaced people
and stateless persons.

In Jordan, UNHCR and its partners worked
with private sector service providers to support
32,000 vulnerable refugee families, using the
latest technology to ensure that registered
refugees targeted through vulnerability
assessments get the right amount of money at
the right time. UNHCR employed iris scanning
during the registration of refugees to verify and
authenticate identities and instantly enrol them
in digital banking. Refugees were then able to
access funds without a cash card, meeting their
needs with dignity through actions that support
the local economy.

UNHCR joined several World Bank and
ID2020-convened workshops in Africa,
including ones focused on identification
systems and digital identity systems. The
Office also convened its first workshop
on digital identity to explore how using
digital systems can achieve inclusion
and empowerment, as well as contribute
towards achieving SDG 16.9 on providing a
legal status for all by 2030.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 165

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

and host communities. The centre is
intended to build a better informed and
more sustainable response to forced
displacement, underpinning a coordinated
humanitarian‑development approach. It
builds on UNHCR’s role as the reference
institution for refugee data and incorporates
the World Bank’s analytical expertise and
experience helping national governments
improve statistical capacity.

Identifying the needs of people of concern
© UNHCR/Vivian Tan

With almost 85 per cent of refugees living
in the developing world and more than half
displaced for over four years, humanitarian
interventions need to be complemented
by a longer‑term development response,
including in the area of data management.
The World Bank and UNHCR have joined
forces to establish a joint data centre on
forced displacement to improve statistics
on displaced people, stateless persons

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

FAVOURABLE PROTECTION ENVIRONMENT
IMPROVE OR MAINTAIN QUALITY OF REGISTRATION AND PROFILING. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Improve registration and case management
software

Deployed its latest registration and case management software, proGres in Partnership
(proGres v4), to 25 operations in 2017, through regional workshops for Western Europe
and the Americas.

Improve identity management

Deployed BIMS to 17 operations, further supporting the implementation of a unique
identity for people of concern.
Rolled out the global distribution tool in Burundi, Djibouti and Kenya, which verifies a
beneficiary’s biometric identity against entitlement documents before WFP partners
distribute assistance.
With WFP, worked on a global data-sharing addendum to explore the sharing of
biographical and biometric data, as well as seek interoperability between UNHCR’s
PRIMES and WFP’s SCOPE systems.
Supported Rwanda and Uganda in strengthening identity management systems at
registration and assistance distribution by using UNHCR tools and processes.
Initiated discussions on e-submissions with several resettlement States and started
consultations on the development of a standard data transfer system from UNHCR’s
central database to allow automated and controlled transfer of data to States in the
context of resettlement submissions.
Provided access to biometric verification of refugees to IOM in Kenya at the point of
resettlement processing for departures.

Provide support to registration activities
in the field

Invested heavily in emergency registration preparedness, capacity-building and
response, by facilitating its third training session on emergency registration.
Facilitated institutional training on emergency registration and deployed 7 graduates to
Angola, Bangladesh and Uganda to support registration activities.
Provided registration materials from its stockpile to support emergencies and
conducted verification activities in the field.
Facilitated a pilot workshop on strategic approaches to registration with 11 operations in
the Asia and the Pacific, to strengthen access to and delivery of registration and identity
management for people of concern.
Drafted a policy and guidance on identity management and registration.
Established a toolkit of templates and sample resources, and planning and implementation
tools for verification exercises. This included a comprehensive reporting and monitoring
tool to analyse the effectiveness of verification activities on data quality and use.

166 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR staff counsel separated refugee children among the new arrivals in Nayapara camp in Bangladesh.

UNHCR applies a community‑based
approach to protecting people of concern,
such as those with specific needs, and
emphasizes clear communication and
transparency, participation and inclusion,
feedback and response, and organizational
learning and adaptation as core
components. Community‑based protection
empowers communities to exercise their
rights with dignity and safety. For example,
in 2017, UNHCR’s community‑based
initiatives included support to community
centres meeting the needs of diverse
groups and delivery, with partners, of
outreach volunteer programmes.
UNHCR developed and implemented
a range of community-based initiatives
with a focus on enhancing the protection
of people with disabilities. Initiatives
included work to build the capacity of
service providers, strengthening their
ability to deliver inclusive services. This
work has helped reduce barriers for

people with disabilities and older people
in accessing services, and has also
improved their ability to participate in
community activities. In other settings, the
Office worked in partnership with local
disability organizations on rehabilitation
and development projects for children with
disabilities.
Children constitute more than 50 per cent
of the world’s refugees, compared to
31 per cent of the general global population,
and are disproportionately affected by
forced displacement. In 2017, UNHCR
strengthened its protection programme
for children, adolescents and youth by
focusing on their inclusion in national
protection systems, continuing to apply the
“best interests of the child” principle, and
improving community‑based approaches to
child protection and youth programming, as
well as adolescent and youth programming
in forced displacement contexts.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 167

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Implementing the best interests
principle was also a global strategic
priority for UNHCR. After consultation
with stakeholders, the Office revised
its “Guidelines on determining the best
interests of the child”.
Building on the outcomes of the 2016
global refugee youth consultations, UNHCR
strengthened its focus on adolescents
and youth programming. In 2017, the
Office established a global youth advisory
made up of 15 youth delegates aged
between 18 and 25. These delegates

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

presented recommendations related to
the development of the global compact
on refugees at the High Commissioner’s
Protection Dialogue in December 2017.
Reflecting the fact that young people are
the future leaders of global responses
to displacement, the Office invested in
youth‑focused capacity‑building efforts.
This included providing selected youth with
access to specialist training programmes
and encouraging their involvement in
community outreach initiatives.

Given the sensitivity of dealing with LGBTI
issues in some countries of asylum, UNHCR
focused on mainstreaming protection
response to LGBTI people within existing
services. Countries also created networks
and focal point systems of trained staff to

respond to the specific needs of LGBTI
people, including safe identification and
referral of at‑risk cases. In some countries,
partnerships with local LGBTI organizations
were expanded, and training on sexual
orientation and gender identity were
also developed to include partners. In
other countries, UNHCR worked with
LGBTI groups to share best practices on
supporting LGBTI people. The Office also
published a report on promising practices
related to gender in its work with Syrian
refugees in the Middle East and North
Africa. This report included a section
exploring good practices in working with
LGBTI people in this context.

© UNHCR/Jean-Marc Ferré

Give us a chance to build a brighter future,
young refugees say
More than a dozen youth delegates from countries as diverse as the
Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq and South Sudan took part in a high-level
meeting in Geneva in December 2017.
Some 500 representatives from governments, local authorities, civil
society, private companies, academics, international organizations
and financial institutions gathered for the tenth annual High
Commissioner’s Dialogue on Protection Challenges in December 2017.
The two-day forum gave young refugees the opportunity to address
policymakers and share their views and experiences, in particular on
the importance of access to education for young refugees.

Action plans included improving reception
conditions for LGBTI people through
sensitization work with staff, partners
and interpreters; creation of safe spaces,
awareness raising and advocacy with
displaced communities and local authorities
for the rights of LGBTI people; and
establishing referral mechanisms and
networks to exchange protection practices
and tools.

AREAS OF INTERVENTION
Safia Ibrahimkhel, 25, an Afghan refugee
born in Pakistan, participated as a youth
delegate at the High Commissioner’s
Dialogue on Protection Challenges.

Some delegates stressed the importance of giving young refugees the
chance to participate in the decisions that will affect their lives. One of
them was Safia Ibrahimkhel, 25, an Afghan refugee born and raised
in Pakistan. “I don’t just speak as a youth, but as a female refugee,”
she said. “Young refugees and women … should have the opportunity
to take part in the decision making … we have the capacity, we have
the potential … we are intelligent, and we have the power to make a
positive change in the world.”

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND SELF-RELIANCE
STRENGTHEN AND EXPAND COMMUNITY MOBILIZATION. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Strengthen capacity to design, implement,
monitor and evaluate protection and
assistance programmes, in close
collaboration with people of concern

Rolled out community-based protection learning programmes targeting, in particular,
West Africa and Eastern and Southern Europe.

Strengthen UNHCR’s participatory
approach and mechanism for
accountability to affected population

Piloted the accountability to affected population (AAP) framework and operational
guidance and integrated it into several learning programmes, as well as in the updated
AGD policy that will be issued in 2018.

Equipped 46 staff with the knowledge, skills and practical resources needed to apply
an effective, community-based approach to protection in their operations.

Supported 11 countries with the development and implementation of accountability
mechanisms.

Forcibly displaced lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people
are another group at heightened risk
of discrimination and violence. UNHCR
continued to develop guidance to
ensure LGBTI people of concern have
safe, dignified and equitable access to
protection, assistance and solutions. In
2017, the Office strengthened efforts

168 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

to protect LGBTI people of concern by
delivering training to raise awareness
among staff of their specific needs. The
Office also delivered an intensive LGBTI
learning programme in three locations,
reaching a total of 62 staff members from
37 countries and resulting in action plans
to strengthen LGBTI protection in each of
these respective office locations.

Developed AAP training resources and incorporated them into new and existing
protection training programmes.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 169

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES

Promoting gender equality

STRENGTHEN SERVICES FOR PEOPLE WITH SPECIFIC NEEDS. IN 2017, UNHCR:

As part of its age, gender and diversity
(AGD) approach, UNHCR made progress
in promoting and advancing gender
equality in its work. In 2017, UNHCR
finalized core actions targeting women
and girls of concern, to be included in the
updated age, gender and diversity policy
that will be released in 2018. The Office
also started developing and strengthening
its gender focal points system, in line with
the UN system-wide action plan on gender
equality and the empowerment of women
(UN-SWAP). This was done through the
development and delivery of a gender
equality learning programme, and the
initiation of an e‑learning programme on
gender equality, as well as development
of guidance to support the roll‑out of an
updated age, gender and diversity policy.

Strengthen capacity to address specific
protection needs of LGBTI people
of concern

Organized a “training of trainers” programme on LGBTI protection with 12 staff from
5 regions and headquarters.
Delivered nearly 350 training sessions on working with LGBTI people of concern in
countries. Training was provided by 22 UNHCR staff members who were certified LGBTI
trainers.
Helped foster good practices in responding to the needs of LGBTI people through the
delivery to 3 cohorts of a specialized training programme and the establishment of an
online community of practice. This community of practice helped facilitate peer learning
through the exchange of ideas between humanitarian and protection workers around
the world.
Shared good practices from the field, such as: safe approaches to identification of LGBTI
people of concern; creation of safe places; establishment of referral pathways; inclusion
and participation of LGBTI people in assessments; and provision of appropriate medical
and psycho-social support.

Strengthen capacity to address specific
protection needs of people with disabilities

Developed an e-learning programme for staff working with people with disabilities in
situations of forced displacement to: strengthen understanding of, and promote a
rights-based approach to, working with people with disabilities; and to improve their
accessibility to, and full participation and inclusion in, the services provided by the Office.

SECURITY FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION
STRENGTHEN PROTECTION OF CHILDREN. IN 2017, UNHCR:

In addition, UNHCR continued to
strengthen its community-based approach
to encourage female participation in
decision‑making activities. As part of this
work, the Office regularly held community
meetings in the field with women and girls
to improve communication and to conduct
participatory needs assessments. UNHCR
continued to mainstream the inclusion
of women and girls in decision-making
processes; ensure individual registration
for females; and worked to prevent and
respond to SGBV (see the chapter on
Responding with lifesaving support).
Despite important progress made in 2017,
challenges and barriers to achieving
equality remained, primarily due to societal
attitudes that are often difficult to change.
Progress towards overcoming this challenge
is slow, as beliefs and engrained societal
expectations often require incremental
change.

Strengthen programming for adolescents
and youth

Supported 31 youth-initiated projects, through UNHCR’s youth initiative fund.

Strengthen child protection response
in emergencies

Deployed child protection staff to 14 operations worldwide, with those staff providing
a combined total of 108 months of expertise.

COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND SELF-RELIANCE

Trained over 300 staff and partners, government officials and refugee volunteers on
child rights and child protection prevention and response.

SUPPORT AND STRENGTHEN THE CAPACITY AND KNOWLEDGE ON GENDER EQUALITY. IN 2017, UNHCR:

Implemented projects in 22 countries, of which 14 were explicitly designed with a focus
on promoting gender equality or preventing and responding to SGBV.

Supported the implementation of best interests procedures, including in the
Islamic Republic of Iran and Uganda and to rapidly scale-up the child protection
response in Bangladesh.
Strengthen capacity for the protection
of children

Developed and disseminated operational tools, including thematic issue briefs on child
protection and organized 2 regional workshops on child protection learning programmes,
which were attended by 43 UNHCR staff in the Americas and West Africa.

Develop and implement gender equality
policy

Consolidated work on updating UNHCR’s Commitments to Women, and included it in
updating UNHCR’s age, gender and diversity policy.

Develop and implement gender equality
guidance and good practices

Started working on the development of gender equality guidance to support the
implementation of an updated age, gender and diversity policy that will be released
in 2018.
Released the 2016 age, gender and diversity accountability report.
Conducted research, documented and published promising practices on gender
equality in the Middle East and North Africa.

Organized training events at global, regional and country level, including a joint training
session by UNHCR and Save the Children on child protection and education in refugee
settings, held in Kenya.

Undertook a promising practices review on gender equality in Asia and the Pacific.
Provide gender equality capacity-building
to UNHCR staff

Carried out surveys and identified learning needs to identify gender focal points.
Launched a pilot gender equality learning programme for gender focal points in
October 2017.
Continued to work and develop the gender equality e-learning programme that will be
launched in 2018.

Provide gender equality technical expertise

170 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Supported a number of countries to strengthen their gender equality efforts through
gender focal points from the first gender equality learning programme global cohort.
Gender focal points from diverse countries, such as Afghanistan, Morocco, Rwanda and
the United Republic of Tanzania, were included and worked on strengthening gender
equality programming in their countries.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 171

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Notwithstanding these positive
developments, 25 countries worldwide
still maintain this form of gender
discrimination in their nationality laws.

ENDING STATELESSNESS
© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

UNHCR’s partnership with ECOWAS led
to the adoption of a legally binding plan of
action on the eradication of statelessness,
the “Banjul Plan of Action of the ECOWAS
on the Eradication of Statelessness
2017–2024”. With the Office’s support,

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

“A stateless person
can not own property.
I feel belittled and
disgraced by the
situation that I am in.”

Stateless minorities: the Makonde
of Kenya receive nationality, ending a
stateless existence

Shaame Hamisi, 55 years old, Pemba community, Kenya.

Statelessness is a human-made problem
with devastating consequences, as recently
demonstrated by the violence and abuse
that drove hundreds of thousands of
Rohingya to seek refuge in Bangladesh.
With sufficient political will and support
by States, millions of people around the
world could acquire a nationality and
prevent their children from being born
stateless. By obtaining nationality,
stateless persons worldwide would gain
full access to their human rights and enjoy
a sense of belonging. UNHCR’s #IBelong
Campaign to end statelessness by 2024
sets out concrete steps for States to
help resolve this problem.
UNHCR supported
some 56,500
stateless persons
to acquire or
confirm nationality
in 29 countries
in 2017.

Achieving solutions
During the past three years, several States
and regional organizations increased their
resolve to end statelessness by acceding
to the statelessness conventions, adopting

172 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

laws and procedures to facilitate the
acquisition of nationality, or implementing
statelessness determination procedures
to identify and protect stateless persons.
In 2017, Burkina Faso and Luxembourg
acceded to the 1961 Convention on the
Reduction of Statelessness, bringing to
70 the number of States parties to this
Convention, and Chile and Haiti took steps
towards acceding to the same convention
during the year.
With technical support from UNHCR, a
significant number of States strengthened
their nationality laws to help prevent or
reduce statelessness. Madagascar and
Sierra Leone amended their nationality
laws to allow mothers to confer nationality
to their children on an equal basis to
fathers. Four additional States—Liberia,
Somalia, Sudan and Togo—are also in the
process of reviewing their legislation in
this regard.

the International Conference on the Great
Lakes Region (ICGLR) adopted a ministerial
declaration and plan of action, which
will pave the way for significant reforms
in ICGLR’s Member States. Building on
existing collaboration, UNHCR and the
Arab League achieved the adoption of a
declaration on women’s equal nationality
rights.

Julieta Metambili Rashid is one of
several thousand Makonde people who
received Kenyan nationality after years
of statelessness.

The Makonde, originating from Mozambique, have lived in Kenya since
the 1930s. But although many Makonde families have been in Kenya
since before independence in 1963, they have not been recognized
as citizens. Without national IDs, they have often struggled to earn a
living, have been unable to travel, own property, or obtain birth and
marriage certificates. Their statelessness has been passed from one
generation to the next, and Makonde children have been unable to
graduate from school or be considered for scholarships. However,
after decades of lobbying, the future of the Makonde and other
stateless minority groups in Kenya became brighter when, in 2017, the
President issued a directive recognizing them as the 43rd Kenyan tribe,
leading to their registration as Kenyan citizens.
“My life has changed since I got an ID card,” says Julieta, one of
several thousand Makonde people being issued identity papers and
Kenyan nationality after years of statelessness.
The Government’s recognition of the Makonde offers hope that
change may be coming for other minority ethnic groups in Kenya
who remain stateless and for other millions around the world without
nationality. Many of these stateless persons belong to an ethnic,
religious or linguistic minority in countries where many have often
lived for generations.
UNHCR released a report on stateless minorities, “This is our home:
Stateless Minorities and their Search for Citizenship”, to mark the third
anniversary of the #IBelong campaign. Its findings underscore the
critical need for minorities to enjoy the right to a nationality.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 173

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Deepening partnerships
to end statelessness
In 2017, data on
stateless persons
was available from
75 countries.

A number of States, engaged as “Friends of
the #IBelong Campaign”, have taken action
to address statelessness, by advocating
or by adopting Human Rights Council
resolutions related to nationality and
statelessness. After the launch of a joint
UNHCR-UNICEF campaign on every child’s
right to a nationality in December 2016,
which aimed to raise awareness about and
combat the hidden problem of childhood
statelessness, a dozen countries adopted
joint statelessness strategies in 2017. Under
the ID4D Initiative, UNHCR worked with
the World Bank on principles for identifying
stateless persons. These principles were

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

designed to support the implementation of
SDG 16.9, which calls for a legal identity for
all, including birth registration, by 2030.

FAVOURABLE PROTECTION ENVIRONMENT
DEVELOP OR STRENGTHEN LAW AND POLICY. IN 2017, UNHCR:

These, and other strategic partnerships, will
be crucial in rallying support for a high‑level
event to be held on statelessness in
2019—the midpoint of the 10‑year #IBelong
Campaign. At this event it is expected that
progress to date will be reviewed and new
pledges encouraged to further prevent and
reduce statelessness by 2024.
UNHCR also worked to improve data
collection on statelessness globally. In
2017, four new studies were concluded.
Another 30 were commissioned to improve
qualitative information on stateless persons.

Advocate reform of nationality laws,
policies and procedures to close gaps
that may lead to statelessness and to
ensure that stateless persons can acquire
nationality, also providing technical advice
to governments on doing so

Provided technical advice and guidance on nationality laws to 47 countries, to support
the legal reforms needed to prevent and reduce statelessness.

Advocate the introduction or improvement
of statelessness determination procedures
and provide technical advice to
governments on doing so

Supported Brazil and Bulgaria as they established statelessness determination
procedures.

Advocate the elimination of gender
discrimination in nationality laws and
provide technical advice to governments
on doing so

Provided technical advice to Madagascar and Sierra Leone to introduce law reforms
to eliminate gender discrimination from nationality laws.

Welcomed the adoption of procedures providing facilitated naturalization to stateless
persons by Brazil, Costa Rica and Ecuador.

Supported the outcome statement from the First Arab Conference on Good Practices and
Regional Opportunities to Strengthen Women’s Nationality Rights, October 2017.

ACCESS TO, RATIFY OR STRENGTHEN INTERNATIONAL AND REGIONAL INSTRUMENTS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Promote accession to the 1954 Convention
Relating to the Status of Stateless Persons
and the 1961 Convention on the Reduction
of Statelessness

Supported Burkina Faso and Luxembourg in acceding to the 1961 Convention.
Worked with ECOWAS Member States which adopted the Banjul Plan of Action on the
eradication of statelessness. The plan includes steps for States that are yet to become
party to the statelessness conventions, to accede by 2024.
Supported Member States of the ICGLR who adopted an “Action Plan of the International
Conference on the Great Lakes Region On the Eradication of Statelessness
2017-2019” in October 2017. The plan of action includes steps for States that are yet
to become party to the statelessness conventions, to accede.

© UNHCR/Niko Ivanovski

Goodwill Ambassador support
Goodwill Ambassadors helped to raise awareness of the importance
of safeguarding fundamental rights, by lending their voices to
UNHCR’s campaigns. Poet and activist Emi Mahmoud, a high profile
UNHCR supporter, drew attention to the #IBelong campaign by
performing a slam poem to commemorate the campaign’s third
anniversary and the launch of a new report on statelessness
by UNHCR.

‘’What makes a person? Is it the things we
lose, the way we crumble, the way we fall
as if each time is the first and last time?’’
—Emi Mahmoud, a UNHCR high profile supporter

UNHCR high profile supporter Emi
Mahmoud performing at the third
anniversary of the #IBelong Campaign
event in Amsterdam, Netherlands.

FAIR PROTECTION PROCESSES AND DOCUMENTATION
IMPROVE IDENTIFICATION OF STATELESSNESS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Support identification/registration exercises
and surveys to increase knowledge of the
number of stateless persons, their situation
and possible solutions

Conducted 4 country studies in Austria, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Zambia,
with partners, to collect qualitative information on stateless populations.

Advocate and provide technical advice for
improved statistics on stateless persons

Made available statistical data on 75 countries.

Supported 30 States and 2 regions—East and Horn of Africa, and Western Europe—in
undertaking qualitative studies on statelessness, with a number of them including a
quantitative component.

DURABLE SOLUTIONS
ACHIEVE GREATER REDUCTION OF STATELESSNESS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Assist stateless persons and those with
undetermined nationality to acquire or
confirm nationality

Supported 56,500 stateless persons to acquire nationality or have it confirmed.

Develop and implement strategies
to address protected situations of
statelessness

Guided operations to have statelessness reflected in 18 multi-year solution strategies to
address protracted situations of statelessness.

Provide training and technical advice to
government officials on statelessness
reduction measures, including acquisition
or confirmation of nationality by stateless
persons and those with undetermined
nationality

Conducted 2 dedicated courses on statelessness at the International Institute of
Humanitarian Law in San Remo, Italy, one in English and one in Arabic, and supported
a dedicated course at Tilburg University in the Netherlands.
Conducted 6 training sessions on the prevention of statelessness in Southern Africa,
West Africa (Portuguese) and French-speaking African countries, as well as in the
Americas and Europe.
Trained members of parliaments in Namibia, South Africa and Swaziland.

174 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 175

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

ENGAGING IN SITUATIONS OF INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT
© UNHCR/Colin Delfosse

Faiza (centre, in purple), 31, from Manono village in Tanganyika province in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, sits among a group of
Congolese women who established a site for IDPs at EP Moni primary school in Kalemie.

In 2017, two
additional States
acceded to the
African Union
Convention for
the Protection and
Assistance of IDPs
in Africa—known
as the Kampala
Convention—
bringing the
number of States
Parties to 27 of the
AU’s 55 Member
States.

According to the Internal Displacement
Monitoring Center, an estimated
40 million people were displaced within
their countries at the end of 2017,
decreasing from 40.3 million in 2016. As the
global lead or co-lead for three clusters—
protection, shelter, and camp coordination
and camp management (CCCM)—UNHCR
plays a significant role in responding to
internal displacement. Responding to
this continued high level of displacement,
and in line with the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development Goals, including its
commitment to “leave no one behind”, the
Office promoted and supported national,
regional and global action towards reducing
displacement and empowering IDPs to
achieve solutions.
UNHCR’s engagement in situations of
internal displacement has become more
predictable through the implementation
of new guidelines agreed in 2016. In

176 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

2017, 90 per cent of UNHCR’s operational
interventions were aligned with the “IDP
Footprint” set out in the guidelines. UNHCR
showed protection leadership in States
affected by active conflict, such as the
Central African Republic, Iraq and Syria.
Throughout the year, the Office and partners
took stock of its operational experiences
in active conflict zones through roundtable
discussions, including a roundtable jointly
organized by UNHCR and ICRC on the
civilian and humanitarian character of sites
and settlements, and a second roundtable
on civil-military coordination for protection
that provided a set of agreed good practices
for field operations.
UNHCR worked with national governments
to help them develop and implement law
and polices to safeguard the rights of, and
find solutions for, those displaced within
national borders. Working with the Special
Rapporteur on the human rights of IDPs,

the Office provided capacity-building and
technical guidance to States, as well as
advocated alignment of national laws and
policy with the Guiding Principles on Internal
Displacement. These efforts helped lead to
positive developments in national IDP law
and policy in ten different operations, in
particular in Afghanistan, Georgia, Honduras,
Mali, Niger, Somalia and Ukraine.
To help meet the Grand Bargain
commitments, UNHCR focused on helping
reduce protracted displacement in a safe
and dignified manner. In 2017, 4.2 million
IDPs returned to their areas of origin—
this number was lower than in 2016
(6.5 million), but considerable higher than
2015 (2.3 million). However, many of these
returns took place to hazardous security
situations, and did not constitute a durable
solution as defined by UNHCR. In such
circumstances, UNHCR operations provided
protection monitoring and information to
communities at risk, including during returns
to Mosul in Iraq.
Solutions require a strong evidence base.
UNHCR supported the implementation
in 2017 of an IASC framework on durable
solutions for IDPs.
The Office also encouraged the
involvement of diverse stakeholders in

TOP 10 LARGEST IDP OPERATIONS | 2017

COLOMBIA

SYRIA

DRC

7.7 MILLION

6.1 MILLION

4.5 MILLION

45%

Nearly half of IDPs in the world
were in three countries

Colombia

Syria

DRC

Iraq

Somalia

Yemen

Sudan

South Sudan

Afghanistan

Ukraine

data collection through work on a technical
report on IDP statistics for national
statistical commissions. An example of
UNHCR’s work on IDP solutions was in
Honduras, where UNHCR supported that
government to register homes abandoned
by IDPs and eventually provide restitution
for the property through capacity-building
on data systems for land ownership.

Strengthening UNHCR’s engagement in internal displacement situations
In its 2017-2021 Strategic Directions, UNHCR committed to working more systematically across the entire spectrum of displacement,
including through a more decisive and predictable engagement in situations of internal displacement. In September 2017, the Office
completed an operational review of its engagement in situations of internal displacement, following which the High Commissioner
appointed a Special Adviser on Internal Displacement. The role of the Special Adviser was to coordinate the implementation of the
review’s recommendations, supported by a dedicated team at Headquarters.
The review recommended transformations in UNHCR’s work with IDPs from preparedness and emergency response through to
disengagement and solutions. It also called for fundamental changes to internal processes, practices, capacities and institutional
culture across UNHCR, with a strong focus on strengthening delivery in the field.
In October 2017, the Special Adviser worked with the UNHCR operation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to ensure
a more automatic and robust response to the declaration of the most serious level of emergency situation (system-wide Level-3
emergency declaration). This included piloting new approaches to IDP population data management together with IOM. During a
mission to the Philippines in December 2017, the Special Adviser highlighted the need for UNHCR to develop its operational strategy
and work with national institutions and local actors in a way that will facilitate responsible engagement in the future.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 177

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Global Protection Cluster
The GPC and
its task teams
undertook 15
field missions in
support of nine
countries in 2017,
including to IASC
system-wide
Level-3 and
UNHCR Level 2
emergencies.

The Global Protection Cluster (GPC), led
by UNHCR, worked within the established
coordination arrangements at the global
and field levels. In 2017, UNHCR led 25 of
the 35 activated, country-level protection
clusters and other inter-agency protection
coordination mechanisms worldwide. Five
national protection clusters were co-led with
a government counterpart or a United Nations
organization, with nine more co-facilitated
by international NGOs—including the Danish
Refugee Council, the Norwegian Refugee
Council (NRC) and IRC. The GPC worked
closely with UNFPA, UNICEF, UNMAS,
and the NRC as the lead organizations
responsible for, respectively, child protection;
gender-based violence; mine action; and
housing, land and property.
Guided by its 2016‑2019 strategic
framework, the GPC strengthened
innovative approaches to protection, such
as cash-based interventions, protection
information management and social media.
Echoing the recommendations of the
“Independent whole of system review of
protection in the context of humanitarian
action”, the GPC launched a scoping study
for a protection innovation lab. The study’s
findings recommended establishing a GPC
protection lab. The protection innovation
lab is expected to be established in
2018 and will assist in identifying and
scaling-up innovative processes to
protection challenges.

178 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

Guided by its revised operations cell, the
GPC built the capacity of national clusters,
in particular through coordination and
advocacy support, the development of
protection strategies, providing advice
on the design and implementation of
programmes, and training. Throughout
the year, the GPC drew attention to the
causes and consequences of violations of
international humanitarian law in situations
of hunger. The cluster also highlighted
the humanitarian response’s narrow focus
on food security and nutrition in the DRC
(focusing on the Kasai situation), Nigeria,
Somalia, South Sudan and Yemen.
As part of efforts to ensure a coherent and
comprehensive approach to protection, the
GPC produced an annual review of action
that promoted the centrality of protection.
The report, published in February 2017,
set out good practices from six operations
and detailed recommendations for
humanitarian coordinators and humanitarian
country teams. The task team launched an
e‑learning on protection mainstreaming.
The GPC also improved information
management to support evidence‑based
responses through surge capacity
deployments, including information
provided on the GPC website.

Global Camp Coordination and
Camp Management Cluster
The Global CCCM Cluster is led by UNHCR
in conflict situations and by IOM in natural
disasters. It supported 15 country‑level
clusters and cluster‑like structures worldwide
in 2017, with UNHCR leading or co‑leading
10 of them.
The Global CCCM Cluster continued to
set global standards and policies, build
preparedness and response capacity, and
provide operational support to country-level
CCCM coordination platforms to enable
them to fulfil their core functions. Cluster
representatives travelled to specific
countries to gather lessons learned from
the implementation of the CCCM urban
displacement and out-of-camp initiative, while
cluster members developed guidance on how

Global Shelter Cluster
The Global Shelter Cluster (GSC) is co‑led by
UNHCR during conflict-related emergencies
and by the IFRC during natural disasters.
In 2017, UNHCR led 12 and co-led one of the
28 activated country-level shelter clusters.
UNHCR supported the coordination of
417 partners providing shelter and NFI support
to more than 8 million people.
To facilitate sector coordination within
countries and on a global scale, UNHCR
hosted the annual GSC coordination
workshop—bringing together
122 participants from 38 different
organizations—and a GSC meeting,
providing a forum for shelter cluster
coordination teams and GSC partners to
share best practices and develop tools
and methodologies.

to adapt camp management approaches to
various operational contexts. The strategic
advisory group of the Global CCCM Cluster
was renewed; ACTED, the Danish Refugee
Council, NRC and LWF remained members.
The Global CCCM cluster partner agencies
responded to major emergencies called
upon by the United Nations Emergency Relief
Coordinator, and where the scale of the crisis
was beyond the response capacity of national
authorities. It also developed a new five-year
strategy for 2017-2021 focusing on peoplecentred camp management and coordination,
information- and feedback-driven responses,
strategic and inclusive support,
collaboration with other clusters
and partners, and responses that
were fit-for-purpose.

To improve field coordination capacities
UNHCR, in partnership with IFRC through
the GSC, co‑led two humanitarian shelter
coordination training sessions.
The GSC reviewed its previous five‑year
strategy ahead of its conclusion in 2017 in
order to inform its new strategy developed
for the 2018–2022 period. This new cluster
strategy guides cluster partners’ actions
to support crisis-affected people, and to
assist them to live in safe, dignified and
appropriate shelter and settlements through
coordination, advocacy and support to
increased response capacity. One of the
most important undertakings during the final
months of 2017 for GSC and UNHCR was to
engage in the revision of SPHERE standards.

In 2017, UNHCR
completed
nine CCCM
field missions
in support of
six countries,
totalling 385
days, including
to co-activate the
CCCM cluster in
Somalia.

The GSC
supported
national clusters
with 306 days of
mission support
and 313 days of
remote support
to 12 UNHCR-led
country level
clusters.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 179

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | S A F E G UA R D I N G F U N DA M E N TA L R I G H T S

ENGAGING IN CLIMATE CHANGE AND DISASTER DISPLACEMENT
© UNHCR/ Mustafa Saeed

and regional instruments such as the 1969
OAU convention. The Office also supported
the preparation of a Human Rights Council
resolution on human rights, climate change,
migrants and people displaced across
international borders, which was adopted in
June 2017.
UNHCR continued to support the
coordination entities established in
2016, such as the Platform on Disaster
Displacement, including through
developing a guide with NRC and IOM

to implement the Sendai Framework on
Disaster Risk Reduction provisions on
disaster displacement. The Office also
provided technical and policy support to
the UNFCCC in its capacity as a member
of the Task Force on Displacement of the
Warsaw International Mechanism on Loss
and Damage, which was created by COP21
in Paris 2016 to develop recommendations
for approaches to avert, minimize and
address displacement associated with
climate change.

Maryama Yassin Mohamed, an IDP woman in Somaliland, was forced to move to Wajaale district with her family due to the severe drought.

The Internal Displacement Monitoring
Centre estimated more than 18.8 million
new internal displacements associated with
disasters were recorded in 135 countries
and territories in 2017. The effects of
climate change and disasters continued to
exacerbate already fragile situations and
fuelled conflicts over depleted resources.

UNHCR

&

CLIMATE CHANGE,
DISASTERS
AND DISPLACEMENT

Guy S Goodwin-Gill and Jane McAdam, 2017

180 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In 2017, UNHCR’s priority was advancing
normative solutions, promoting policy
coherence and developing tools to support
national responses, including in the areas
of climate change, disaster risk reduction,
human rights and planned relocation. In a
UNHCR report on climate change, disasters
and displacement, the Office emphasized
the need for an agency-wide approach to
addressing climate change and disaster
related displacement. In April 2017, UNHCR
issued specific legal advice entitled “Legal
considerations on refugee protection for
people fleeing conflict and famine affected
countries”. This advice reaffirmed the
relevance, and analyses the applicability,
of refugee definitions under international

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 181

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S

Responding
with lifesaving
support

© UNHCR/Andrew McConnell

Rohingya refugees cross the Naf River from Myanmar on makeshift
rafts, heading for refugee camps in Teknaf, Bangladesh.

With 71.4 million people of concern in 2017,
UNHCR and its partners responded to
the needs of refugees, IDPs and stateless
persons in multiple simultaneous and
complex emergencies worldwide, as well
as in protracted conflicts.
By the end of 2017, more than
30 UNHCR operations were responding
to 13 large-scale emergencies. These
included six new emergencies declared
in Angola, Bangladesh, the Republic of
the Congo, the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (DRC), Libya, Zambia, and
for the Venezuela situation. As a result,

182 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

the Office fully deployed its emergency
preparedness and response capabilities
under the framework of its new Policy on
Emergency Preparedness and Response,
which was issued in July 2017. To better
protect and assist people of concern from
the onset of emergencies, UNHCR raised
its operational delivery and coordination in
countries experiencing new or deteriorating
situations of displacement. The Office also
bolstered its response by deploying staff
skilled in protection, coordination and
technical profiles such as registration; in
the prevention of, and response to, sexual
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 183

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

and gender-based violence (SGBV); shelter;
health; and water, sanitation and hygiene
(WASH).

to improve emergency preparedness,
including by expanding its cash-based
interventions (CBIs), and helping people
meet their basic shelter, health, nutrition,
food, and WASH needs.

In line with the Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF), UNHCR’s
focus was on providing holistic support
to meet the immediate needs of people
of concern and their host communities
and linking the response to solutions
early on. Implementing its Grand Bargain
commitments, UNHCR worked with local
authorities, communities and partners

This chapter outlines UNHCR’s response to
emergencies in 2017, and its search for, and
use of, innovative practices. It highlights the
progress made and challenges the Office
faced in providing lifesaving assistance
to people of concern during multiple,
simultaneous emergencies.

31

PROVIDED IN CORE RELIEF ITEMS

COUNTRIES

1.2M
PEOPLE REACHED

DECLARATIONS
TURKEY

EMERGENCIES DECLARED BEFORE 2017
NEW EMERGENCIES

LEBANON
JORDAN

LIBYA

NIGER CHAD
TRINIDAD & TOBAGO
COSTA RICA
COLOMBIA

NIGERIA

VENEZUELA SITUATION
CAMEROON

BANGLADESH
YEMEN

SOUTH ETHIOPIA
SUDAN

DRC
REP. OF
CONGO
ANGOLA

BRAZIL

SYRIA
IRAQ

SUDAN

KENYA
UGANDA
RWANDA
BURUNDI
TANZANIA

ZAMBIA

249

EMERGENCY STAFF
DEPLOYMENTS

110

DEPLOYMENTS FROM
18 STANDBY PARTNERS*

1,350

Over the past three years, UNHCR has
strengthened its emergency preparedness
capacity, making investments to ensure
a faster and more efficient response
grounded in sound risk assessment. Efforts
have involved working with local partners—
governments, civil society and other
stakeholders—to prepare for influxes of
people displaced by conflict and to respond
to their immediate needs (see the chapter
on Expanding partnerships).
Preparing for emergencies involves
conducting assessments for possible CBIs,
prepositioning relief items, and providing
emergency preparedness training to local
actors. UNHCR continued its investment
in risk analysis and collaborated with
other agencies, including at regular global
“horizon scanning” sessions organized
by the Inter‑Agency Standing Committee
(IASC) Reference Group on Risk, Early
Warning and Preparedness.

EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS
AND RESPONSE
EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS
AND
RESPONSE
| 2017

$55.3M

Preparing for emergencies

STAFF & PARTNERS TRAINED IN

UNHCR used the high alert list for
emergency preparedness (HALEP) to
help country operations assess their
capacity to respond to an emergency and
put further measures in place. UNHCR’s
new emergency policy framework made
the HALEP mandatory for medium‑ and
high‑risk operations and encouraged
targeted preparedness support from
Headquarters. Training sessions
strengthened the ability of more than
1,350 staff and partners on preparedness

and response, including to determine risk,
improve preparedness plans, and enhance
local response capacity.
UNHCR enhanced its coordination,
particularly in refugee situations, and
continued to explore ways it could involve
development actors earlier in emergency
responses. In the course of 2017, technical
guidance and capacity‑building initiatives
were developed for UNHCR staff, partners
and host government representatives,
in line with the refugee coordination model.
Joint regional planning and analysis,
and national protection and solutions
strategies for IDPs and refugees were also
developed under the leadership of regional
refugee coordinators.
In 2017, UNHCR issued five regional
refugee response plans (RRPs), covering
19 countries. These plans were created in
partnership with host governments, United
Nations agencies, international NGOs and
local first responders. In 2017, two new
regional refugee coordinators—responsible
for leading operational planning and
resource mobilization—were appointed to
cover the Burundi and the South Sudan
situations. UNHCR also extended the
tenures of the regional refugee coordinators
for the Nigeria and Syria situations. In
addition, a contingency planning exercise
for the DRC was undertaken to boost
preparedness for the activation of a
regional refugee response plan in 2018.

The RRPs provide
a comprehensive
picture of
identified needs,
impact on host
communities,
and operational
strategy and
financial
requirements. In
2017, five RRPs
were in place,
involving more
than 540 partners
in 19 countries. A
total of $7.4 billion
was requested in
funding to meet
assessed needs,
and $3.5 billion
in contributions
received. The
overall funding
level of RRPs was
48 per cent.

EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

STANDBY PARTNERS
*UNHCR’s 18 agreements with standby partners provided specialist emergency staff deployment with skills in, for example, coordination, registration and shelter
Bundesanstalt Technisches Hilfswerk (THW) | CANADEM | Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, United States of America (CDC) |
Danish Refugee Council | Department for International Development, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (DFID) |
Directorate for Civil Protection and Emergency Planning, Norway (DSB) | Dutch Surge Support Water (DSS Water, previously Netherlands Enterprise Agency) |
Emergency.lu, Luxembourg Ministry of Foreign Affairs | International Humanitarian Partnership | iMMAP | Irish Aid | Norwegian Refugee Council |
RedR Australia | Save the Children Norway | Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency (MSB) | Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) |
Veolia Environment Foundation | White Helmets Commission

184 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 185

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

Preparing and responding better to the needs of displaced people
in emergencies: UNHCR’s new emergency policy

Responding to the Rohingya refugee crisis
Between August and December 2017, nearly 655,000 refugees fled to Bangladesh
from Myanmar’s Rakhine State to escape targeted violence and serious human rights
violations. They joined more than 276,000 refugees from Myanmar who had fled to
Bangladesh in previous years (see the Asia and the Pacific regional summary).

In July 2017, UNHCR issued its new Policy on Emergency Preparedness and Response, which became
the framework for the Office’s efforts to better prepare for, and respond to, the needs of displaced
people during emergencies. The policy is based on UNHCR’s Strategic Directions 2017-2021 and
lessons learned from recent emergencies worldwide. It also reflects UNHCR’s role in the early
application of the CRRF.

Responding to the emergency, UNHCR provided critical protection, shelter, water,
sanitation, health and nutrition assistance, and also offered support services to
survivors of SGBV.

The policy introduces three emergency levels, with clearly defined accountability and
coordination roles.
Emergency Level 1 focuses on proactive preparedness. It triggers preparation for a
humanitarian emergency, including preparedness missions and human, financial and
material support.
Emergency Level 2 is triggered when an operation requires additional support and
resources from UNHCR’s Headquarters to respond quickly and efficiently.
Emergency Level 3 signifies a situation in which the scale, pace, complexity or
consequences of the crisis exceed the existing response capacity of the country
operation. A Level 3 emergency requires a “whole-of-UNHCR” response.
IASC humanitarian system-wide Level-3 emergencies are
declared by the United Nations Emergency Relief Coordinator.
In such emergencies, UNHCR usually:

•	 Leads the protection, shelter, and camp coordination and
camp management (CCCM) clusters when internal
displacement is conflict-related.

•	 Determines its interventions and cluster leadership on a
case-by-case basis when internal displacement is due to a
natural disaster.

Thousands of newly arrived Rohingya refugees
cross the border near Anzuman Para village,
Palong Khali, Bangladesh.

RESPONDING TO THE ROHINGYA CRISIS
AT A GLANCE
AUGUST 2017

DECEMBER 2017

17

$20.4M
2,580

AIRLIFTS

METRIC TONS OF RELIEF
ITEMS DELIVERED

10,670
metric tons
of core relief
supplies worth
$55.3 million,
were delivered to
1.2 million people
of concern in
31 country
operations
worldwide.

In line with its new Policy on Emergency
Preparedness and Response, UNHCR
made 359 emergency deployments in
2017, providing 31,881 days of staff support
to field operations, including through
redeploying staff from other operations and
from Headquarters. Multi-functional teams
ensured a comprehensive emergency
response and standby partners provided
critical support, including with 110 staff
deployments, mostly to Bangladesh, South
Sudan and Uganda.

186 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR prepositioned its relief items in
seven global stockpiles across Africa,
Europe and the Middle East. Doing so
enabled the Office to deliver relief items
at any given time to 600,000 displaced
people by air, road or sea in multiple
locations. Simplified procurement rules for
emergencies made it easier to purchase
items locally and regionally.

STAFF AND
PARTNERS DEPLOYED

$31M
Raised by the private sector and six
National Partners for the Rohingya
refugee emergency in Bangladesh

= 10,000 REFUGEES

Responding to emergencies

100

VALUE OF RELIEF
ITEMS DELIVERED

In partnership with the Government, UNHCR developed
and implemented a digital data collection system using
an innovative approach to household registration. The
system enabled UNHCR and partners to understand the
size and breakdown of the population, their location, and
their protection needs. Refugee families in the Kutupalong
camp—known as the Kutupalong-Balukhali expansion
site—and surrounding settlements did not need to queue to
make themselves known to UNHCR, thanks to a smartphone
application that allowed staff to collect shelter-to-shelter
data. More than 175,000 refugee families from Myanmar
were registered and provided with documentation. The
data collected was also used to streamline and verify

340,000

REFUGEES
REACHED

refugee identities ahead of the distribution of relief items.
The aggregated data from the exercise was also shared
with partners to improve evidence-based planning and
programming and ensure timely protection interventions for
refugees in need of support.
In addition, UNHCR and partners built the KutupalongBalukhali expansion site in just five months, and more than
40,000 shelters have been erected since the beginning of
the crisis. Together with partners, the Office delivered WASH
services rapidly, meeting standards in most of the settlements
during the emergency phase, and ensuring interventions were
sustainable.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 187

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Delivering in high-risk
security environments
UNHCR protected and assisted people
forced to flee their homes in complex
and high-risk security environments. In
Afghanistan, Iraq, Somalia, South Sudan,
the Syrian Arab Republic (Syria) and Yemen,
security measures were vital to protect
staff, allowing them to continue delivering
lifesaving aid and seek solutions for
refugees.

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

In 2017, UNHCR’s security personnel
managed more than 400 incidents. Security
advisers formed part of multi-functional
teams deployed to emergencies, focusing
on access to displaced people and
appropriate security management systems.
The Office applied the programme criticality
framework—a common United Nations
system policy for decision-making used to
determine levels of acceptable security risk
for programmes and activities implemented
by United Nations personnel—to assess how
it could deliver adequate support to people
of concern in high-risk environments.

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE
REINFORCE EMERGENCY RESPONSE CAPACITY AND EFFECTIVENESS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Enhance emergency preparedness

Introduced a dedicated Emergency Level 1 response through its revised Policy on
Emergency Preparedness and Response, which triggers preparedness activities.
Organized 10 advanced preparedness missions, assessing and prioritizing local and
national preparedness interventions.
Used the HALEP in 90 operations to assess their preparedness in cases of
displacement and developed 33 refugee contingency plans.

Build capacity in emergency preparedness
and response, security and the supply
chain

Trained more than 850 people on emergency preparedness and response during:
3 workshops on emergency management, 2 emergency team leadership programmes,
1 senior emergency leadership programme, 11 situational emergency training sessions,
2 emergency management training sessions, 1 training session on information
management in emergencies, 1 training session on emergency registration,
and 5 inductions to UNHCR emergency response.
Trained more than 500 people from 28 countries through UNHCR’s regional centre
for emergency preparedness (e-Centre) in Bangkok, which facilitated 19 workshops
and trainings. Participants comprised regional, national and local partners, as well as
UNHCR staff.

© UNHCR/Jordi Matas

Goodwill Ambassador support
Through wide-ranging activities, UNHCR’s supporters illustrated the
Office’s capacity to respond in a timely and effective manner with
lifesaving support to displaced people. Goodwill Ambassador Jung
Woo-sung’s meetings with Rohingya refugees in Bangladesh, for
instance, helped highlight the enormous needs and challenges of
the emergency response. In addition, Goodwill Ambassador Helena
Christensen’s visit to elderly people displaced by conflict in eastern
Ukraine spotlighted the central role that UNHCR has played in
providing shelter for some of the region’s most vulnerable.

Trained 600 people on security by organizing security management learning
programmes, field safety adviser workshops, security management exercises,
security risk management workshops, and a programme aimed at increasing women’s
security awareness.
Trained 2,500 people on supply chain management including in emergencies.
Continued testing innovative approaches, focusing on the Office’s accountability to
people of concern, as well as participatory assessments and communication with
communities.
Deploy standby emergency coordination,
preparedness and response teams

UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador, Jung
Woo-sung, meets Rohingya refugees
in Bangladesh.

Ensured deployment to emergencies through agreements with 18 standby partners,
as well as internal capacity. Internal capacity included UNHCR’s emergency services
standby team; the senior corporate emergency roster; its emergency response team;
and technical rosters for supply, human resources, administration, finance and programme.
Deployed 359 UNHCR and standby partner staff to emergencies within 72 hours to
25 operations to work as multi-functional teams.

Strengthen inter-agency and strategic
partnerships

Continued to work with the IASC Emergency Directors Group and Reference Group on
Risk, Early Warning and Preparedness, as well as the United Nations Crisis Management
Working Group.
Actively participated in and contributed to inter-agency security forums, including the
working groups and steering groups of the Inter-Agency Security Management Network
and the United Nations Security Management System.

Enhance policy development

Issued the revised Policy on Emergency Preparedness and Response and mainstreamed
it into learning programmes. Updated the Emergency Handbook (in English and French)
to reflect policy changes.
Conducted a real-time review of the emergency response in Angola and incorporated
lessons learned into training programmes and ongoing activities.
In line with the duty of care for personnel in high-risk duty stations, developed a support
package for staff welfare.

188 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 189

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

REINFORCE EMERGENCY RESPONSE CAPACITY AND EFFECTIVENESS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Continuously assessed operations to ensure appropriate risk mitigation measures were
in place and managed 404 security incidents.
Undertook 62 support missions over 588 days, including to Angola, Bangladesh, Iraq,
Uganda and Zimbabwe.

PREVENTING, MITIGATING AND RESPONDING
TO SEXUAL AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE
© UNHCR/Reynesson Damasceno

EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE

Reinforce security management as an
organizational culture

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Continued its campaign to reduce road crashes and trained more than 50 trainers to
increase awareness.
Developed programme criticality guidelines to ensure UNHCR can deliver effective
programmes in high-risk environments.
Trained 15 women (security and staff welfare) to deliver women’s security awareness
training globally.
OPTIMIZE GLOBAL SUPPLY MANAGEMENT FOR EFFICIENT DELIVERY. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Optimize supply chain for shelter and relief
items in emergencies

Maintained the capacity to deliver relief items to 600,000 people in simultaneous
emergencies through the global stockpile system.
Delivered 10,670 metric tons of relief items from UNHCR global stockpiles to
31 emergency operations using 31 airlifts, as well as sea and road transport.
Enhanced the global stockpile system by creating a new stockpile in Uganda and
72 new framework agreements with suppliers.
Undertook 21 supply support missions in emergency operations and revised
procurement rules and the new local procurement toolkit.
Supported 23 country operations to develop and implement CBIs and procurement,
tools and guidance.

Brazilian and Venezuelan women paint a wall in the context of the 16 days of activism against sexual and gender-based violence.

Whether a primary cause of their
displacement or a significant risk as they
flee, men, women and children are too often
at risk of sexual and gender-based violence
(SGBV) and other forms of abuse, including
exploitation and abduction. SGBV remains a
critical protection concern for UNHCR. It has
devastating and long-term consequences
for those displaced people who experience
it, and while women and girls are at higher
risk from such violence, it also affects men
and boys.

Ensuring sexual and gender-based
violence programming
in emergencies

total of 60 months, as part of the “Safe from
the start” initiative. Assessments carried out
in follow-up to these deployments showed
that UNHCR operations increased the core
multi-sectoral activities addressing SGBV
and increased the geographical coverage of
SGBV programming. The risk of SGBV was
therefore mitigated and access to quality
services to survivors improved.

In 2017, UNHCR
made good
progress
addressing SGBV
by enhancing
support to
survivors in 33
refugee situations
and four IDP
situations
globally.

In 2017, 41 trainees from the Africa and
Middle East and North Africa regions
completed an SGBV learning programme
on SGBV prevention and response. This has
helped expand capacity of UNHCR staff to
deliver training for refugees and partner
organizations.

In 2017, UNHCR deployed Senior Protection
Officers dedicated to addressing SGBV in
emergency situations in 11 operations for a

190 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 191

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Increasing efficient data
management

Cash and SGBV programming
In 2017, UNHCR conducted studies in Ecuador, Lebanon and Morocco to better understand how
to optimize the use of cash to achieve protection outcomes. The findings will be used to develop guidance in cash
programming to prevent, mitigate and respond to SGBV.

In 2017, UNHCR implemented the
Gender-based Violence Information
Management System (GBVIMS), an
inter-agency initiative that enables
humanitarian actors to collect, store, analyze
and share data safely and effectively on
incidents of SGBV in a consistent and
coordinated way. Better quality data can
help inform decisions, ultimately to improve

In addition, UNHCR endeavoured to increase the portion of women as direct beneficiaries of cash assistance, and
in particular, survivors and people at risk of SGBV received cash assistance in the Congo, the DRC and Morocco,
alongside other complementary forms of assistance such as counselling and livelihood support.

Innovation for protection

In 2017, 10 multi-sectoral projects
were implemented in nine countries,
addressing SGBV risks and focusing on

© UNHCR/Dominic Nahr

UNHCR and partners continued to pilot
innovative, multi-sectoral projects aimed
at better protecting women and girls from
SGBV in different settings. These projects
identified the most effective approaches
and showed promising ways of mitigating
SGBV.

four circumstances in which SGBV is more
likely to occur—namely, where there are
fewer livelihood opportunities, a lack of
safe access to energy for cooking, reduced
access to technology, and insufficient levels
of lighting at night.
With this is mind, UNHCR is piloting
projects that provide refugee communities
with access to alternative energy sources
in Rwanda and the United Republic of
Tanzania in order to reduce the risk of SGBV
associated with the collection of firewood.

© UNHCR/Jordi Matas

Firewood collection and cooking is the responsibility of women and
girls in most refugee situations. It is hard work and can be dangerous.
In camps in the United Republic of Tanzania, they can walk 10 kilometres
to collect firewood, and many women have been sexually assaulted
undertaking this task.
To address this, UNHCR piloted a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) project,
which not only provides refugees with alternative sources of fuel but
also helps ensure their protection. A LPG kit includes one full LPG
cylinder, a burner and igniter. The project saw the number of women
and girls collecting firewood fall from 92 per cent to 30 per cent. As the
pilot has proven successful and generated further demand, UNHCR is
considering how to increase LPG access across the camps in 2018.

Burundian refugee Frida Nehebauwayo,
17, waits to have her LPG cylinder
refilled at Nyarugusu camp in the United
Republic of Tanzania.

“Gas helps us a lot. I used to collect firewood from six in the morning
and was always late for school. Now, I go to school on time.”
—Frida Nehebauwayo, Burundian refugee in the United Republic of Tanzania

192 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In 2017, the GBVIMS initiative developed the
“Inter-agency gender-based violence case
management guidelines” which have been
used for capacity-building on enhanced
quality case management.

The GBVIMS was
operational in
14 countries as
of the end of 2017.

Male rape and sexual torture widespread in
the Syria crisis
Detained during the war in his native Syria, Tarek was held in a darkened cell for a
month with 80 other people—but those harsh conditions were the least of it. Kept
naked, he and other detainees were strung up by their hands at night, tortured with
electric shocks to their genitals, and gang-raped by their captors. “They would come
into the cell to violate us, but it was dark–we couldn’t see them,” he recalled. “All we
could hear were people saying, ‘Stop! Don’t!’ I thought we would die.”
“We keep it in our heart”: sexual violence
against men and boys in the Syria crisis.

Liquid petroleum gas project reduces
risks for women and children in
the United Republic of Tanzania

prevention and the care provided to
survivors. The GBVIMS has enhanced the
safe collection and management of data
on incidents of SGBV and trends in many
operations, including in the context of
the Syria response.

Tarek’s experience is far from unique. A UNHCR report, published in 2017, indicates
that sexual violence and torture of men and boys in Syria by multiple parties to the
conflict may be far more widespread than previously thought. UNHCR researchers
heard accounts of violence against boys as young as 10, and against men, including
those in their 80s.
Recommendations geared towards humanitarian organizations, and others involved
in working with refugees, included the need for stronger prevention strategies,
better confidentiality arrangements, protection against reprisals, improved survivor
care, and strengthened awareness of the risks of SGBV among aid workers.

“These are most disturbing accounts revealing
just how grave the risk of sexual violence has become for women, girls
and, as shown by UNHCR’s recent report, also men and boys.”
—Volker Türk, UNHCR’s Assistant High Commissioner for Protection

The report revealed that the risk of sexual violence is higher for those who are gay, bisexual, transgender or intersex, and
does not end when people leave Syria. Inside Syria, armed groups were reported as the main perpetrators, while outside
Syria, the danger is often from opportunistic abuse.
Refugee boys in countries of asylum suffer sexual violence at the hands of other male refugees and men in the local
community. Sexual exploitation and blackmail of refugee men were reported in countries of asylum, especially among those
working in the informal economy, where the vast majority of their families live below the poverty line.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 193

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

UNHCR CASH-BASED INTERVENTIONS
CASH FACTS | 2017

EXPANDING CASH-BASED INTERVENTIONS

UNHCR’s vision is to ensure that people can meet their needs in dignity, are protected and can transition to solutions through the expanded use of cash assistance

© UNHCR/Yorgos Kyvernitis

8M

UNHCR CASH-BASED INTERVENTIONS

94

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
RECEIVING CASH ASSISTANCE

2,300

COUNTRIES IMPLEMENTING
CASH ASSISTANCE

TRAINED STAFF AND PARTNERS
ON CASH ASSISTANCE

CASH FACTS | 2017
S

EM

UNHCR’s vision is to ensure that people can meet their needs in dignity, are protected and can transition to solutions through the expanded use of cash assistance.
E

8M

PEOPLE OF CONCERN
RECEIVING CASH ASSISTANCE

94

NM

I
TR

HE

EN

IO

N

O

TI

TH
AL

NU

SH

E
NT

DS

T
ZA

RI

R

TE
EL

O

I

I
EL

NS

V

LI

ED

O
-F

N

N

O

CT

TE
RO

P

NS

O G
TI
LU DIN
U
CL
IN

N

IO

O

I
AT
UC

HO

H
AS
W

2,300
W

IT

O

N

NT

O

R
VI

D

D

/N

O

FO

EN

GY
ER

UR

T
RE

SO

TRAINED STAFF AND PARTNERS
ON CASH ASSISTANCE

COUNTRIES IMPLEMENTING
CASH ASSISTANCE

S

EM

N

NT

E

NM

I

V
EN

TH
AL

RO

HE

D

IO

N

IO

T
RI

T
NU

SH

R
TE
EL

DS

AT

O

IZ

R
TE

W

IN

O

H
LI

H
AS
W

$502M

Brahim (left) with his wife Halima and their six children from Syria show the cash card they just received from UNHCR and its partners in
Greece. The monthly cash assistance will help cover the family’s basic needs, giving them the dignity ofCASH-BASED
choice.
INTERVENTIONS

E
IV

L

61%

WERE MULTIPURPOSE

$502M

IT

O

O
-F

N
N
IO
O
CT
/N
E
GY
D
T
O
ER
O INTERVENTIONS
CASH-BASED
PR
ED
FO
EN
N

O

I
AT
UC

NS

NS

UR

T
RE

61%

61%

O G
TI
LU DIN
U
SO WERE
CL MULTIPURPOSE
IN

Multipurpose

39%
Sector specific

$159M

61%

CASH FOR PROTECTION

Multipurpose

39%
Sector Specific

UNHCR uses CBIs for a wide range of
purposes, typically through multipurpose
cash grants, helping people of concern to
meet their essential needs, including access
to protection, shelter, health, education
and livelihoods. Cash, together with
in-kind assistance and services, increases
efficiency, gives people of concern more
choice and more options, and is an integral
part of UNHCR’s protection strategy.

Delivering cash assistance

people of concern—a significant increase
over the 2015 Grand Bargain baseline of
$325 million. While the overall volume of
cash assistance has decreased compared
to the previous year, mainly due to fewer
return grants in Afghanistan in 2016, more
operations, including in Greece, Rwanda
and Somalia, have introduced or expanded
CBIs (see regional summaries and the
chapters on Safeguarding$159M
fundamental
rights and Building better
futures
for more
CASH FOR
PROTECTION
CBI examples).

UNHCR’s policy on CBIs and its
institutionalization strategy (2016-2020)
set out its commitment and objectives for
the expanded, systematic and innovative
use of cash-based assistance. In 2017, the
Office delivered $502 million in cash to

The Office continued to research the use
of cash to improve protection, health,
education, WASH and basic needs
outcomes. More than 61 per cent of CBIs
were multipurpose cash grants enabling
people of concern to choose how to meet

194 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

their needs best and, importantly, allowing
them to contribute to local economies and
host communities. In addition, 25 per cent
of the overall cash assistance was provided
to meet specific protection objectives.

42
COUNTRIES

In line with its institutionalization strategy,
UNHCR has integrated cash in existing
guidance, tools and processes while
835,000
developing additional cash tools. Illustrative
BENEFICIARIES
of this, the Office undertook a global
mapping of cash interventions promoting
protection, which covered more than
180 CBI programmes across 42 country
operations. UNHCR also studied the
outcomes related to health, education,
WASH and basic needs when delivering
cash assistance.

42
COUNTRIES

$159M
CASH FOR PROTECTION

835,000
BENEFICIARIES

42
COUNTRIES

835,000
BENEFICIARIES

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 195

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Maximizing effectiveness,
efficiency and innovation
UNHCR promoted unified arrangements for
cash transfers to maximize the efficiency
of CBIs. The Office’s corporate tool for
managing cash assistance, CashAssist,
was strengthened by establishing a direct
link between the registration system and
the financial service provider. This upgrade
enables UNHCR and its partners to deliver
and track assistance to people of concern,
and staff and partners can now track cash.
In Jordan, the common cash facility (CCF) is
a secure and efficient cash transfer facility
that is scalable and makes payments more
predictable. The CCF provides 90 per cent
of all cash assistance to vulnerable refugees
living outside camps. With 17 of UNHCR’s

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

partners having joined the cash facility,
bank fees for cash transfers have fallen
from as high as 5 percent to 1 per cent.
Building on this experience in Jordan,
the project has been expanded to Greece,
and has become part of the addendum on
cash assistance to the memorandum of
understanding between UNHCR and WFP.

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVIVES
CASH-BASED INTERVENTIONS. IN 2017, UNHCR:

Furthermore, UNHCR has established key
partnerships with development actors
in Africa and the Middle East to include
refugees and others of concern in their
programmes. These partners include the
UNCDF, Financial Sector Deepening Africa,
Grameen Crédit Agricole Foundation and
the Swedish International Development
Agency (Sida).

Enable UNHCR operations to
systematically consider and implement
CBIs

Increased the number of CBI dedicated experts based in operations, from 26 in 2015
to 29 by the end of 2017.

Provide cash assistance across UNHCR
operations

Delivered 60% of CBIs through multipurpose cash grants.

Continue to build the capacity of UNHCR to
consider, implement and monitor CBIs

Trained more than 2,300 UNHCR staff and partners in CBIs.

Supported 31 operations in processing the procurement of financial services.

Provided 80% of CBI funding to country operations.

Provided dedicated CBI support to 57 countries and 5 regional offices.
Undertook 22 CBI and multi-functional country support missions.
Updated UNHCR’s financial management system.

Conduct reviews, and develop tools and
guidance on CBIs

Undertook 15 CBI-focused reviews, studies and evaluations covering protection and
technical sectors.

© UNHCR/David Azia

UNHCR steps up aid as displaced
Syrians brace for winter
Sitting in the single, unheated room that serves as their home in a
run‑down neighbourhood of the Lebanese capital Beirut, Samira and
her husband, Hussein, have a familiar sense of foreboding at the
prospect of their sixth winter in exile since fleeing Syria.
Like the majority of the roughly one million registered Syrian refugees
living in Lebanon, the couple—originally from Deir Ez-Zour—have good
reason to fear the arrival of colder temperatures and winter storms.
Conditions were particularly harsh when temperatures fell below
zero in previous years. To help vulnerable refugees prepare for the
cold weather, UNHCR began providing in between $225-$375 winter
cash assistance to help with additional costs related to fuel, clothing
and medical expenses. Around 650,000 people have received such
payments. The programme targeted vulnerable families with a mix
of cash assistance, building materials to repair and weather-proof
shelters, and distributions of winter items, including high thermal
blankets, gas heaters and warm clothes. It also included plans to
assist more than 1.1 million people displaced inside Syria, with priority
given to those most recently displaced and others living in hard-to-reach
or besieged areas.

Syrian refugees in Lebanon received
winter cash assistance from UNHCR,
which they use to pay for food, firewood,
clothing and medication.

Samira and her family, who are among the beneficiaries, say the
additional support helped keep them warm. “Heating for example,
especially with the harsh weather here, is of great help in dealing
with my son’s condition.”

196 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 197

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

SHELTER AND SETTLEMENT
AT A GLANCE | 2017

MEETING BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

33%

$500 MILLION

SPEND ON EMERGENCY SHELTER NEEDS

AMOUNT SPENT IN RESPONDING TO
THE SHELTER AND SETTLEMENT NEEDS
OF PEOPLE OF CONCERN

43
SITUATIONS IN WHICH HOUSEHOLDS
IMPROVED OR MAINTAINED THEIR ACCESS
TO ADEQUATE SHELTER

In Bangladesh, for example, UNHCR
enlisted technical expertise to ensure
sound planning and management of the
densely populated refugee sites. By using

Many new and existing emergencies
continued to highlight critical challenges,
particularly in public health, food security
and shelter in urban and semi-urban
areas. UNHCR designs its basic needs
and essential lifesaving interventions with
an agile, adaptable and contextualized
response for refugees, IDPs and stateless
persons. Its interventions are in line
with the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development; UNHCR’s age, gender and
diversity approach; and the United Nations’
collective goal to advance gender equality.
Effective, strategic and operational
partnerships are, as outlined within the
CRRF, essential for meeting the immediate
needs of people of concern and improving
their quality of life. These needs include
shelter, WASH, nutrition and food security,
and health, including HIV prevention and
treatment, and reproductive health.

198 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

© UNHCR/Sebastian Rich

The newly constructed Kutupalong-Balukhali extension site as seen from the air. New arrivals have been relocated here on
government-allocated land with newly built latrines and freshly dug wells.

Improved shelter solutions
UNHCR’s longstanding partnership with Better Shelter and the IKEA
Foundation improved the refugee housing unit model, in consultation
with people of concern. This durable, cost-effective, flexible and
all-in-one shelter solution includes a solar energy unit for a LED lamp
and telephone charger, and provides greater dignity, privacy and
protection from the elements to displaced families.

Shelter and settlement
UNHCR’s global strategy for settlement and
shelter (2014-2018) provides a framework to
ensure refugees and others of concern can
access dignified, secure settlements and
shelter, whether they live in urban or rural
settings. The framework seeks to improve
the quality of emergency shelter responses
and supports sustainable settlement
solutions by adopting an integrated master
plan approach.
In 2017, UNHCR improved the quality
of shelter and settlements. It provided
accommodation to more than
4.5 million refugees in planned or
self-settled camps. At the onset of
emergencies, the Office deployed experts
and new technology, and developed new
partnerships to improve its response.

drone technology to map inaccessible
areas and to assess flood and landslide
risk, it provided a rapid shelter response for
80,000 families.

Families living in refugee housing units in
Al Jemea’a camp in Iraq.

In 2017, about 10,000 refugee housing units were deployed to
facilitate more sustainable shelter responses in eight operations
across Africa and the Middle East. “It provides us with more privacy.
My wife and I sleep behind the curtain and my kids sleep on this side,
in the main ‘room’. The refugee housing unit is a blessing from God for
us in the desert,” said Hamid and Fatma, beneficiaries at Al Jamea’a
camp in Iraq.
UNHCR also developed a new self-standing family tent—a lightweight,
self-supporting structure that can be erected by just three people in
30 minutes.
Both the refugee housing unit and the new self-standing family tent
offer better shelter solutions and protection-related improvements.

In protracted refugee situations, UNHCR
used the master plan approach to prepare
more sustainable settlement options for
people of concern. For example, in Damak,
Nepal, UNHCR committed to improving
the living conditions of 7,000 Bhutanese
refugees by facilitating the camp’s

consolidation and upgrading temporary
emergency shelters to semi permanent
solutions within three years. Partnerships
with private sector and academia
strengthened the research and technical
approaches UNHCR employs in the field
and enhanced cost efficiency.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 199

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Public health

Prompted by the significant need for shelter and protection funding,
UNHCR launched a three-year global shelter campaign, “Nobody left
outside”, in May 2016, targeting private sector donors.
By the end of 2017, the shelter campaign had raised more than
$20 million from companies, foundations, philanthropists and
individuals worldwide, helping to provide shelter solutions to
thousands of families in some UNHCR’s most challenging operations
as well as to deliver cash assistance and emergency shelter in
humanitarian crisis.
The campaign runs until May 2019 and has been implemented by
UNHCR offices in 20 countries and UNHCR’s National Partners.

© UNHCR/Jordi Matas

© UNHCR/Roger Arnold

“Nobody left outside” for global shelter
fundraising campaign

A Rohingya refugee, Alin Nisa, with her
daughter in Kutupalong Camp Extension
site, Bangladesh.

“Our core aim is to ensure that refugees receive the physical
protection they need and rightfully deserve.”
—Phoebe Goodwin, UNHCR’s Associate Site Planner on an emergency mission to Bangladesh

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

Clinical staff at Nyumanzi integrated health centre for both Ugandan nationals and refugees from South Sudan.

SHELTER AND SETTLEMENT
ESTABLISH, IMPROVE AND MAINTAIN SHELTER AND INFRASTRUCTURE. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Implement the UNHCR global strategy
for settlement and shelter (2014-2018)

Assisted 17 operations to develop comprehensive shelter and settlement strategies.

Continue the development of alternatives
to camp policy and master plan approach

Developed a site planning technical training package, including 88 software licenses
assigned to technical experts and sent 33 physical site planning toolkits to the field,
15 of which in the context of an emergency deployment.

Implemented the master plan approach to site planning in 3 additional operations in
Malawi, Nepal and Uganda.

Developed 4 comprehensive e-learning modules, in partnership with Microdesk.
Strengthened partnerships, particularly with UN-Habitat, to support the development
of urban response guidance.
Developed practical tools to guide how CBIs could support shelter responses.
Ensure the systematic deployment of
senior shelter and settlement staff from
the onset of emergencies

Deployed senior technical staff who undertook 51 missions to ensure the integrity of
field responses and reinforce emergency response capacity.

Improve the range of shelter solutions
available to UNHCR operations

Completed the design of an improved refugee housing unit, in partnership with Better
Shelter.

Developed standby partnership arrangements for emergency shelter deployments.

Completed the self-standing family tent design in preparation for its roll-out in UNHCR’s
operations in 2018.

200 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Refugees and asylum-seekers are often
unable to benefit from livelihood opportunities
and social protection, making it difficult for
people to access essential services, such
as health care. In its public health strategy
(2014-2018), UNHCR aimed to ensure all
refugees can access lifesaving and
essential health care, and advocated for
the inclusion of people of concern in
national programmes. In partnership with
host governments, United Nations
agencies and development partners,
UNHCR is working towards a holistic
approach to meet and address the needs
of both refugees and host communities
(see the chapters on Expanding partnerships
and Building better futures).

In 2017, country assessments were conducted
in the DRC, Djibouti, Guinea and Rwanda
in partnership with ILO on the inclusion of
refugees in national health care structures,
including through community-based health
insurance schemes. Capacity-building
activities in Algeria, the Congo,
South Sudan and Uganda helped train
some 240 primary health care workers to
provide mental health support to refugees.
These efforts also aimed to promote the
integration of mental health into refugee
primary health care.

UNHCR uses its
health information
system, Twine, to
monitor the health
status of refugees
and the coverage
and quality of
interventions
for some
4.7 million refugees
in 26 countries.

UNHCR continued delivering HIV
prevention and treatment and reproductive
health programmes within a framework of
public health, protection and community
development. In 2017, UNHCR reinforced
reproductive health and HIV prevention and

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 201

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

treatment programmes in Cameroon, Niger,
Rwanda, the United Republic of Tanzania
and Zambia. With measures to improve
maternal health outcomes enhanced,
17 UNHCR operations had coverage rates
of skilled birth attendance of above
90 per cent. Cost-effective and high-impact,
neonatal interventions were expanded in
Jordan, Kenya and South Sudan.
The Office assisted national authorities with
HIV prevention activities and the delivery
of antiretroviral therapy to refugees,
including in Rwanda. Together with UNFPA,
it strengthened maternal health and HIV
services for South Sudanese refugees in
Uganda by offering training to staff and
partners and clinical services to survivors
of SGBV, and provided refugee peer
education in Niger.

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

Cash assistance for health
In Jordan, UNHCR and partners use cash as part
of a wider programme of referral services for
refugees to access health care. Pregnant refugee
women were able to use the cash to pay for their
deliveries. Using cash enables UNHCR to serve
more refugees and people of concern with the
same level of funding, as the cost
of using a referral system is about
three times greater.

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
IMPROVE HEALTH STATUS OF POPULATION. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Strengthen interventions to reduce the
incidence and impact of communicable
diseases, including outbreaks

Collaborated with the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention to develop a toolkit
on an expanded programme for immunization (EPI) and include it as a module in the
balanced score card (BSC) monitoring tool for primary health care.

Improve access to expanded noncommunicable disease services at primary
health care level

Rolled out the second phase of UNHCR’s non-communicable disease project in Algeria
and Rwanda. This helped to scale up the management of non-communicable disease
at the primary care level through targeted capacity-building conducted by partners and
through linkages to national programmes.

Support and strengthen the provision of
mental health services through primary
care providers

Completed an evaluation, which demonstrated that trained staff were able to better
identify and manage refugees with mental health concerns.
In partnership with War Trauma Foundation, trained 240 primary health care workers on
mental health in Algeria, the Congo, South Sudan and Uganda.

ENSURE ACCESS OF PEOPLE OF CONCERN TO REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH AND HIV SERVICES. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Take measures to improve access to skilled
attendance at delivery

Provided skilled birth attendance for 90% of deliveries in 17 UNHCR operations.

Expand the availability of neonatal care

Completed a two-year project to strengthen neonatal care in Jordan, Kenya and South
Sudan. The project helped health workers to improve their skills in newborn care and
monitor the progress of deliveries.

Take measures to improve access to a
comprehensive range of HIV prevention
and treatment services

Supported national structures to make antiretroviral therapy available, including for the
prevention of mother-to-child transmission among refugees in the CAR, the DRC and
South Sudan.

© UNHCR/Ibrahima Diane

Central African refugee midwife giving back
to the community in the south of Chad
Amina Assafi, 37, is the mother of two children and joined her parents
in a refugee camp in the south of Chad after her husband was killed
during the war in the CAR. She is now living in Amboko camp with
her family. She is proud of her achievement going from a community
health worker to becoming a midwife thanks to UNHCR’s support and
a DAFI scholarship. She works in the health centre of the Chadian
village of Beureuh, serving refugees and Chadians.
Amina Asafi, a Central African refugee
midwife, works in the health centre in
the Chadian village of Beureuh, serving
refugees and Chadians.

202 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

“I have a lot of hopes. Before, I did not study in university. But now
I came to the camp, I was patient for 10 years and got the opportunity
to study. This is hope. Before I didn’t know but now I am a state-graduated
midwife. This is a success. Be it in Chad or in the CAR or elsewhere in
Africa, I can work,” says Amina.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 203

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

Food security and nutrition
© UNHCR/Georgina Goodwin

Cash assistance help to boost the local economy
UNHCR is pursuing the expansion of cash in close collaboration with host countries and donors.
A recent study in Rwanda found an increase in real income of the community surrounding the refugee camps
between 0.31-0.75 cents per dollar where refugees were receiving cash instead of food assistance. This plays
a role in the host community’s relationship with refugees and helps to improve the environment for asylum and
peaceful coexistence.

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
IMPROVE FOOD SECURITY AND NUTRITIONAL WELL-BEING. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Expand the use of the IYCF framework
and nutrition roadmap

In partnership with Save the Children, rolled out the IYCF framework in 4 additional
countries (Ethiopia, South Sudan, Sudan, and Uganda).
Strengthened the implementation of the framework in Bangladesh, Jordan and Kenya,
where the IYCF framework had already been rolled out.

Strengthen linkages between reproductive
health services and nutrition
Congolese refugees collect their monthly food aid at a distribution centre in Nyarugusu refugee camp in the
United Republic of Tanzania, where rations have been cut due to lack of funding.

In 2017, many children were severely
malnourished, especially where limited
resources resulted in food, water and
health cuts. Approximately 3.3 million
refugees received less than the acceptable
standard of food assistance (based
on 2,100 kcal/person/day). Countries
in Africa—in particular sub-Saharan
countries—experienced food cuts greater
than others (see Africa regional summary).
Food insecurity led to malnutrition and
posed protection risks. Data from Chad
and Rwanda indicated that some women
use transactional sex to help their families’
basic needs. Domestic violence also often
increased when men were unable to
support their households.
In 2017, global acute malnutrition (GAM)
reached acceptable levels in 62 per
cent of surveyed refugee sites—a minor
improvement over 2016. Only around

204 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

a quarter (23 per cent) of refugee sites
surveyed found that children under the age
of five were not stunted, and half
(50 per cent) of surveyed sites showed
critical levels of child anaemia, indicating an
increasingly precarious situation. The infant
and young child feeding (IYCF) framework
was rolled out with nutrition treatment and
prevention programmes, including in the
emergency in Bangladesh, where childhood
and adult malnutrition levels were high.
To address the complex causes of
malnutrition, UNHCR promotes low-cost,
high-impact interventions. With WFP, the
Office implemented a self-reliance strategy
to make the best use of limited resources.
The approach targeted the most vulnerable
people of concern, providing cash and
assistance to cover basic needs. It also
pursued initiatives promoting refugee
self-reliance.

Conducted a joint nutrition, food security, reproductive health and HIV support mission
in Uganda to encourage better quality nutrition and reproductive health care services,
and highlighted the linkages between them.
Developed a nutrition roadmap including to guide operations to strengthen the linkages
between reproductive health services and nutrition.

Expand self-reliance projects for food
security and nutrition

Developed UNHCR’s global agriculture strategy and supported agriculture
programming to improve food security and livelihoods in Ethiopia, Kenya, South Sudan,
Sudan and Uganda.

Improve availability of data to support
nutrition and food security decision-making

Conducted nutrition surveys in 98 refugee sites. The data also provided key food
security indicators.
Reviewed data and updated them to incorporate international norms to inform the
revision of the standardized and expanded nutrition surveys.

Improve joint programming at
the country level

Developed joint plans of action after joint assessment missions to Djibouti and Nepal.

Strengthen food security monitoring in the
context of livelihood initiatives to better
assess impact

Trained staff and partners to conduct surveys measuring the impact of agricultural
programmes on refugee livelihoods in 11 operations (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad,
Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Malawi, Niger, Somalia, Zambia and Zimbabwe).

Improve targeting methods for food
assistance

Conducted vulnerability assessments in Cameroon and Uganda.
Signed the joint UNHCR/WFP principles aimed at designing targeted approaches for the
provision of food and other essential assistance.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 205

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | R E S P O N D I N G W I T H L I F E S AV I N G S U P P O R T

PROVIDING ACCESS TO WASH SERVICES
Water, sanitation and hygiene

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

AT A GLANCE | 2017

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
UP TO

8.5M
REFUGEES SUPPORTED
UP TO

80%

COST REDUCTION

OF WATER PUMPING THROUGH
RENEWABLE SOLAR ENERGY

REPLACING
DIESEL GENERATORS

IN 19 COUNTRIES

In 2017, UNHCR provided
UP TO safely managed
water and sanitation services to nearly
8.5 million people in 50 countries. Strategic
partnerships allowed UNHCR to adopt
cost-efficient, sustainable
technologies.
COSTWASH
REDUCTION
OF WATER
PUMPING
THROUGH
The Office encouraged
the
inclusion
of
RENEWABLE SOLAR ENERGY
people of concern in national WASH service
systems and development plans, in line with
the CRRF and SDG 6 on ensuring access to
water and sanitation for all.

80%

UNHCR completed a four-year project to
create an online database of boreholes in
refugee settings worldwide, as well as a
tool to measure the efficiency of a particular
WASH response. This tool has improved
budgeting for water provision in camps,
particularly in post-emergency situations,
and supported the expanded use of
motorized water pumps run with hybrid or

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

50
COUNTRIES
solar energy rather than fossil fuel, which
could reduce associated costs by up to
80 per cent. In 2017, UNHCR reduced the
cost of sanitation services
in Bangladesh,
COUNTRIES
DIESEL
GENERATORS
Ethiopia, Kenya, and Mozambique
by
REPLACED
providing sanitation solutions, which
converted refugee waste into value-added
products, including cooking fuel briquettes,
biogas, fertilizer and solid waste recycling.

19

Furthermore, UNHCR strengthened its
emergency WASH response, particularly in
Angola, Bangladesh, the DRC and Zambia.
The Office involved refugees more heavily
in the design and implementation of WASH
programmes, resulting in specific toilet
designs that improved access for people
with disabilities. Furthermore, positioning
water points in safer locations helped
reduce the risk of SGBV.

INCREASE OR MAINTAIN THE SUPPLY OF POTABLE WATER TO ENSURE AFFECTED POPULATIONS LIVE IN
SATISFACTORY CONDITIONS OF SANITATION AND HYGIENE. IN 2017, UNHCR:

80%

Improve rapid and effective response
to WASH in emergencies

COST REDUCTION

OF WATER PUMPING THROUGH
RENEWABLE SOLAR ENERGY

Undertook emergency WASH response and provided remote support to teams in
Angola, Bangladesh, the DRC, Uganda and Zambia.
Updated WASH emergency equipment specifications catalogue and frame agreements
jointly with UNICEF.
With UNICEF, supported training for staff and standby partners in the provision of
WASH services during emergencies.
Published the report, “Rapid methods for assessing water, sanitation and hygiene
(WASH) services at refugee camps in emergency settings”, successfully applied these
methods in Bangladesh and provided key information to WASH partners accordingly.

Strengthen evidence-based programming
REPLACING
DIESEL GENERATORS

Support the development of multi-year
WASH strategies and site-level WASH
operational plans

IN 19

Develop innovative solutions for
cost-effective and sustainable WASH
solutions in protracted situations
COUNTRIES
Improve UNHCR’s levels of WASH service
provision in urban settings

Developed WASH monitoring mechanisms, including a monthly report card and
standardized KAP survey in 4 additional countries (Cameroon, Chad, the DRC and
Ethiopia) to improve gap analysis and resource allocation.
Designed a water tool that enables operations to better calculate the costs of their
water programmes and include related costs in their planning.
Developed multi-year WASH strategies and site-level operational plans in 18 situations,
covering short (emergency), medium (post-emergency), and long-term (protracted)
plans.
Supported 7 country operations (Cameroon, Chad, Congo, the DRC, Ethiopia, Niger and
the United Republic of Tanzania) using cash-for-WASH programmes.

Reviewed urban WASH programmes and published a guidance note on WASH
provisions for refugees in urban situations, which included case studies from Lebanon,
Turkey and Uganda.

Cash assistance for WASH
UNHCR is placing more emphasis on cash-based interventions as a means of delivering WASH
assistance. In its report, “Cash-based interventions for WASH programmes in refugee settings”,
recommendations and best practice guidance for the use of CBIs in refugee settings are put
forward. A WASH and cash response matrix was also developed to provide ongoing support to
field operations using cash in refugee WASH programmes.

206 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 207

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

T H E M AT I C C H A P T E R S

Building
better futures
© UNHCR/Ali Unal

A group of Syrian refugees living in Turkey have been awarded DAFI
scholarships to complete their higher education in Ankara.

208 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Displaced and stateless persons are no
different from anyone else in wanting better
and more dignified futures for themselves
and their loved ones. But to achieve their
dream of a better future, people of concern
to UNHCR need education opportunities,
identity documents, freedom of movement,
work and employment. These are all things
that can make a tremendous impact in their
lives.

In 2017, UNHCR continued to work with host
governments with the goal of achieving
durable and comprehensive solutions for all
people of concern. In line with the New York
Declaration for Refugees and Migrants,
collective efforts were undertaken to deliver
sustainable responses from the outset of
an emergency and to promote the inclusion
of refugees in national systems.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 209

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Building on these policy shifts, in
2017, UNHCR set about working with
governments and other partners to ensure
better alignment in humanitarian and
development efforts for the benefit of
refugees and host communities alike. To
that end, the Office rolled out the CRRF in
13 countries, developing partnership‑based
responses to large-scale refugee situations,
and working with new government
counterparts, such as local authorities.
The application of the CRRF generated an
increase in global responsibility‑sharing
in line with its first objective of easing
pressure on host countries.

Greater engagement with bilateral
development actors saw the launch of more
projects supporting access to services
for both refugees and host communities
which, in turn, promoted inclusive policies
in refugee‑hosting areas. Comprehensive
approaches fostered greater synergies
with the 2030 Agenda on Sustainable
Development Goals, and reinforced
the inclusion of refugees in national
development plans and the United Nations
Development Assistance Frameworks (see
the chapter on Expanding partnerships).

COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTIONS
©Humans of Amsterdam/Fetching Tigerrs/UNHCR/popcatter/Shutterstock.com

Key policy developments in recent
years—the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and its pledge to “leave
no one behind”, the World Humanitarian
Summit’s commitment to a “new way of
working”, and the Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF) annexed to
the New York Declaration—have helped
bring about a shift towards more systematic
and predictable solutions to situations of
forced displacement. The ultimate goal
remained to find solutions for all people of
concern and, pending this, help refugees
actively contribute to host communities and
enjoy basic services alongside nationals of
the countries that host them.

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

This chapter outlines UNHCR’s response,
including innovative practices, progress
made, and challenges encountered in the
search for comprehensive and durable
solutions for people of concern to UNHCR.

Manaal, 14, is from Somalia and lives in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. She dreams of being a flight attendant to
“be able to travel, see Paris and have butterflies in my stomach.”

Voluntary repatriation
Most displaced people would prefer to
return to their country or area of origin,
even after many years in exile. Under the
New York Declaration, States committed
to promoting durable solutions, with an
emphasis on sustainable and timely return
in safety and dignity. These commitments,
made in the New York Declaration and
the CRRF as part of it, recognize that
voluntary repatriation requires not only
support for the return process, but also
that sustainable returns need more support
from humanitarian, development, and
peacebuilding perspectives.
While voluntary repatriation conditions
remained challenging in 2017, the number
of refugees who returned to their countries
of origin increased during the year
from 552,200 in 2016 to 667,400, most
of whom (518,600) received assistance

210 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

from UNHCR. While the return to their
country of origin is often the preferred
solution for many refugees, repatriation
should be based on a free and informed
decision and with the full commitment of the
country of origin to the reintegration process
to ensure that returnees are able to safely
rebuild their lives. These contexts in which
such returns took place in 2017 were often
complex. In places where people returned
despite conditions not being conducive to
sustainable reintegration, UNHCR engaged
in protection monitoring and provided
refugees and IDPs with information on
return conditions, protection risks and
obstacles to ensure they were making
free and informed decisions about their
return. For people of concern wanting to
return home voluntarily, key factors in their
decision-making remained the existence
of a functioning government and rule of
law, legal recognition of property rights,
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 211

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

and security and safety. Apart from these
general considerations, factors related to
culture and identity were also important in
the decision to return home.

For example, UNHCR prepared for the
facilitated voluntary repatriation of a group
of refugees from the Republic of the Congo
to one area of the Central African Republic
(CAR), while simultaneously responding to
a displacement emergency in another part
of the country. In Nigeria, while there were
reports of significant self‑organized returns,

In 2017, UNHCR assisted around
58,800 registered Afghan refugees,
mostly from Pakistan, to voluntarily return
and strengthened its return monitoring
systems in Afghanistan. Nevertheless,
there was a limited absorption capacity in
return areas notably due to a lack of work
and employment opportunities, clarity
surrounding land and property rights and
restitution, and adequate housing. Together
with a worsening security situation and
increased internal displacement, voluntary
repatriation to, and sustainable reintegration
in, Afghanistan remained challenging.
The situation in Burundi remained such
that UNHCR could not comprehensively
encourage or promote returns. However,
UNHCR supported the voluntary return of
13,000 refugees from the United Republic
of Tanzania to Burundi during the period of
September to December 2017. In Burundi,
a joint FAO, UNDP, UNFPA and UNHCR
programme supported border monitoring
and access to justice, and security and
social services for returnees and local
communities, along with increased work
and employment opportunities. The Office
also facilitated the voluntary return of
refugees elsewhere, including to Côte d’Ivoire,
Mali, Somalia, Sri Lanka and Sudan.

Cash for returnees
In 2017, UNHCR started working to help returnees from Kenya access banking services in Somalia. Returnees were
able to use ID cards issued by UNHCR to access their funds. The initiative involved UNHCR bringing together its
work in cash assistance programmes and its relationship with private sector partners to create opportunities for
people of concern for financial inclusion.

212 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

In Somalia, UNHCR participated in several
joint United Nations programmes. One
of them involved partners from UNDP
and UN-Habitat and focused on making
relevant institutions accessible to both
IDPs and returnees by enhancing local
governance mechanisms. The programme
also helped to improve refugee access
to affordable housing and other essential
services involved in the integration journey.

UNHCR has not to date facilitated voluntary
repatriation in neighbouring countries due
to the prevailing conditions. In the future,
UNHCR anticipates facilitating voluntary
repatriation from Cameroon and Niger for
Nigerian refugees wishing to return to areas
in the north‑east, if the security situation in
potential return areas becomes stable.

© UNHCR/Feisal Omar

When conditions are not conducive to
return, people may end up internally
displaced, seeking refuge outside their
country or otherwise at risk. Globally,
UNHCR observed large, self‑organized
returns to potentially unsafe situations and
where the sustainability of reintegration is
at risk. This scenario reflects the complex
and fluid dynamics in which many refugees
find themselves. People who wish to return
before circumstances are conducive have
the right to do so. UNHCR’s response to
such situations balances respect for every
person’s right to return to their country
of origin or habitual residence, and the
principle that repatriation should be on
the basis of a free and informed decision
by refugees without incentivizing or
encouraging them to return prematurely.
In 2017, the Office continued to work with
partners to leverage the rule‑of‑law so as to
make progress in the development, conflict
prevention and peacebuilding sectors to
help create conditions conducive for return
of people of concern.

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

UNHCR also actively engaged in the
development of the next phase of the joint
United Nations Rule of Law Project, which
is expected to expand access to justice and
community‑oriented policing support to IDP,
returnee and other displacement‑affected
communities.

Support programmes give Somali
returnees a chance to rebuild better futures
Despite ongoing challenges related to drought, food insecurity,
conflict and lack of services in Somalia, some 111,000 Somali refugees
have returned home since 2014, mainly from Djibouti, Kenya and
Yemen. UNHCR assisted nearly 35,000 refugees to repatriate from
Kenya to Somalia voluntarily in 2017.

Fadumo sells her tie-dyed fabric in
Kismayo market where she also sells
fruit and vegetables.

With partners, UNHCR is helping returnees like Fadumo transition
back into their country of origin. The 24-year-old was born and raised
in Kenya’s Dadaab camp, but she and her family decided to return to
Kismayo in southern Somalia.
However, settling in Somalia was not easy. Besides adjusting to a new
environment rife with insecurity and a severe lack of infrastructure,
Fadumo needed a job to help her take care of her three young sons.
She learned of a centre supporting returnees in Kismayo, which was
run by the American Refugee Committee and UNHCR. She registered
for courses in computer literacy and technical vocational training.
Fadumo has now started her own business and runs a busy workshop,
making beautiful garments that she sells in the local market. She has
found success, and a sense of belonging, for the first time in her life.
“Life here is much better than in the refugee camp,” she says. “I can
afford food. I am able to pay rent and take my eldest son to school.”

In the CAR, UNHCR worked with
peacebuilding and development partners
to include IDPs and potential returnees in
a national perception survey on justice,
security and peace. With partners, the
Office also supported returnees’ access
to housing, land and property, in addition
to aiding the work of local peace and
reconciliation committees.

Globally, UNHCR supported other
mechanisms promoting social cohesion,
such as inter‑faith platforms and return
committees, to encourage stronger
connections between returnees and
national civil society. In Honduras, to
help address potential conflict in areas
where refugees were returning, UNHCR
encouraged civil society cooperation

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 213

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

between local and national authorities. This
included work to analyze the local housing,
land and property situations in line with the
Comprehensive Regional Protection and
Solutions Framework, known as MIRPS—
Marco Integral Regional para la Protección
y Soluciones, the regional iteration of the
CRRF. In Sudan, a joint United Nations
programme continued to strengthen justice
and security, including dispute resolution
mechanisms, and the rebuilding of the
criminal justice system in pilot areas where
IDPs are likely to return.

200
National ID cards
were issued
by Ecuador to
refugees in 2017,
allowing them
to exercise the
same rights
and services as
nationals.

Local integration
Local integration for refugees in a country
of asylum is a complicated and gradual
process with the hope of leading to a
durable solution. The process has different
but inter‑related dimensions.
Local integration is a legal and civil‑political
process. Host States grant refugees
a progressively wider range of rights
and entitlements, which are broadly
commensurate with those enjoyed by
nationals. These include freedom of
movement, access to education and the
labour market, access to public services,
the possibility of acquiring and disposing
of property, and valid travel and identity
documents. Family reunification is also
crucial to local integration. As a result,
UNHCR continued to advocate in 2017 for
naturalization and permanent residence
with States. The Office also supported
refugees in addressing administrative and
practical barriers in accessing these rights,
and worked with national authorities on
legal integration policy and legislation.
Between late 2016 and 2017, Costa Rica,
India, Kazakhstan, Mexico and the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia all granted
citizenship to refugees. Zambia also
confirmed that it would issue three‑year

214 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

residence permits to former Rwandan
refugees no longer requiring international
protection, without the requirement of a
national passport. It is also moving forward
on granting permanent residency visas to
former Angolan refugees.
Beyond its legal and social components,
local integration is also an economic process
whereby refugees become less reliant
on State and humanitarian aid over time.
As refugees become more economically
independent, their contribution to their
host communities grows too. In recognition
of the importance of economic inclusion
to refugees, in 2017, UNHCR continued
to encourage States to better facilitate
refugee access to labour opportunities and
employment (for more information on this,
see the section on Economic inclusion and
livelihoods in this chapter).
In addition, local integration is a social
and cultural process that involves the
relationship between host communities and
refugees, and requires public institutions
to meet the needs of a diverse population.
Promoting peaceful coexistence between
displaced and host communities is one
of UNHCR’s Global Strategic Priorities,
and is aligned with the principles of
inclusion contained in the CRRF. In 2017,
community‑based approaches to protection
provided opportunities for displaced
and host communities to jointly identify
concerns, and design and implement
actions to respond to them.
In Brazil, the national government and the
municipality of São Paulo continued work
to create conditions conducive to refugee
inclusion. Together, the municipality,
international organizations, civil society
members, migrants, and refugees
developed the first public policy for
inclusion and integration.

Community‑based approaches promoted
social cohesion within displaced
populations by ensuring inclusiveness
and representation of all groups, including
those with specific needs and the most
marginalized. Regular participatory
assessments were undertaken with
refugees on their integration experience,
with proposals and feedback given to
national authorities.
Other interventions globally included
initiatives with cultural institutes,
participation in State working groups,
joint assessments of the challenges to
local integration which took into account
the perspectives of refugees and local
communities, and work with private
sector and civil society actors involved
in improving reception conditions and
integration prospects. For example, in
Mexico the UN High Commissioner for
Refugees met with Chief Executive Officers
to discuss the role of the corporate sector
to further support refugee integration. In
Gambia, UNHCR met with authorities to
discuss how refugees’ access to agricultural
land might be included as part of that
country’s plans to stimulate development
and economic growth in rural areas.
UNHCR continued to broaden engagement
with local and national authorities, and host
communities. All of these stakeholders
have a role to play in the successful
integration of refugees. In Europe, the
Office has developed a partnership with
OECD to develop ten case studies on local
authorities’ engagement with refugees, to
better understand refugee policy in cities.
An example of where local authorities took
a leading role in integration is in the city of
Gdansk in Poland. There, local authorities
developed an integration plan in 2016 that
was so successful it was rolled out to a
further 11 other Polish towns and cities in
2017.

In 2017, UNHCR was heartened by the work
of the Global Mayors Summit and Cities
of Solidarity. These entities demonstrated
the value of leadership at the local level
in building successful refugee integration
policies and approaches. In Latin America,
where Cities of Solidarity is based,
authorities in Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, and
Ecuador made progress towards better
inclusion of refugees in social safety nets
and in health and housing programmes
(see the Americas regional summary). In
Mexico, UNHCR supported the relocation
of refugees from border regions to the city
of Saltillo, where there is a specific local
integration programme and opportunities
for formal work. Relevant ministries and
employers have ensured coordinated
support to refugees seeking to access
the labour market. Recognizing the need
for secure land tenure to facilitate local
integration, UNHCR worked with authorities
in Colombia on legalizing 30 informal urban
IDP settlements, an essential step towards
local integration and helping IDPs enjoy
rights such as access to housing, land and
work and employment. Also in Colombia,
UNHCR was hopeful that the development
of a new government policy on the
management of urban settlements would
help deliver benefit to people of concern as
well as host communities.

The Global
Mayors Summit
and Cities
of Solidarity
showcase the
value of local
leadership
in refugee
integration in
Latin America.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 215

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

RESETTLEMENT
Resettlement
AT A GLANCE | 2017

71.4 MILLION
PEOPLE OF CONCERN

19.9 MILLION

1.2 MILLION

75,200

REFUGEES UNDER UNHCR’S MANDATE

REFUGEES IN NEED OF RESETTLEMENT

RESETTLEMENT SUBMISSIONS

Top five nationalities in need of resettlement

Resettlement submissions by age and gender

Syrian Arab Republic
Dem. Rep. of the Congo
Central African Rep.
South Sudan
Afghanistan
Other

< 18
18-59
60+

24%

27%

23%

23%

1%

1%

Many refugees cannot return home because
of continued conflict and persecution. Some
live in perilous situations or have specific
needs that cannot be addressed in the
country where they have sought protection.
In such circumstances, UNHCR helps them
resettle to a third country.

The Office advanced the quality and
integrity of resettlement processes, in
particular through a resettlement innovation
project. This project involved UNHCR
taking stock of its internal procedures
while leveraging existing innovations in the
resettlement process.

In 2017, there were 19.9 million refugees
of concern to UNHCR worldwide, of which
1.2 million were in need of resettlement.
However, close to 75,200 resettlement
places were made available—a 54 per cent
drop compared to 2016 (163,200).
The fall represents declining resettlement
opportunities driven by a changed
international environment.

Throughout the year, the Office helped
States implement protection-centred
resettlement programmes and influenced
legal and policy developments that could
impact resettlement, particularly in the
European Union. UNHCR expanded the
global resettlement base through the
emerging resettlement countries joint
mechanism (ERCM). Advocacy efforts
helped contribute towards increased
resettlement quotas by some States, this
included ensuring access to emergency
resettlement places for refugees whose
lives were at imminent risk (see regional
summaries).

In response, UNHCR stepped up
its advocacy efforts to increase the
number of resettlement places and
ensure programmes were protection
centred, strategic and in line with global
resettlement priorities.

216 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The Syrian Resettlement Core Group played
a critical role in mobilizing support for
large-scale resettlement, testing new
approaches to processing people for
resettlement, sharing best practices and
building relationships between States
with a critical interest in better responding
to refugee outflows from the Syrian
Arab Republic (Syria). In August 2017, a
Central Mediterranean Core Group for
enhanced resettlement and complementary
pathways was established. The Group
mobilized efforts to increase resettlement
for the most vulnerable refugees, and
proactively pursued opportunities for
safe and regulated admission through
complementary pathways (for more
information on the central Mediterranean
situation see the chapter on Safeguarding
fundamental rights).
UNHCR invested in, and widened, its
partnerships with States and non-traditional
actors to expand resettlement and
humanitarian admission. It participated in
the Global Refugee Sponsorship Initiative
to promote and support the establishment
of community-based sponsorship
programmes. The Office assisted civil
society involvement in these programmes
by conducting two scoping assessments
in Argentina and Chile and coordinating
a roundtable in Brazil. Its efforts led to
stronger participation of civil society in
the implementation of community-based
sponsorship programmes. Through annual
tripartite consultations on resettlement, and
working groups on integration, integrity
and capacity-building, UNHCR also built
and maintained partnerships with States,
sponsoring organizations, multilateral
and NGO partners, the private sector,
development actors, academia and refugee
communities.

Complementary pathways
to protection and solutions
While resettlement remains one of the
most important tools by which States can
meet the protection needs of refugees,
complementary pathways for admission can
provide further opportunities to achieve
long-lasting solutions. By learning new
skills, contributing to the labour market,
acquiring an education, or reuniting with
family members in third countries, refugees
can enjoy a safe and lawful stay in a place
where their international protection needs
are met. Complementary pathways are not
meant as a substitute for the protection
afforded to refugees under the international
protection regime: rather, they complement
it and serve as an important expression
of solidarity and responsibility-sharing, as
reaffirmed in the New York Declaration and
the CRRF.
While refugees face many barriers and
challenges in accessing complementary
pathways—for instance, obtaining exit
permits, entry visas or travel documents or
meeting strict eligibility criteria—important
progress was made in 2017. UNHCR
supported action on States’ pledges and
existing initiatives on complementary
pathways, for instance higher education
programmes offered by France and Japan
for Syrian refugees. The Office developed
guidance in setting up the systems
and mechanisms needed to support
complementary pathways and worked
with all those concerned, including States,
civil society, the private sector, academia,
governmental organizations and refugees.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 217

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

© UNHCR/Jordi Matas

Goodwill Ambassador support
UNHCR Goodwill Ambassadors, such as Khaled Hosseini, highlighted
UNHCR’s essential work building better futures for displaced people.
Hosseini’s mission to Uganda explored the impact of innovative
approaches such as land-sharing between Ugandan nationals and
refugees, while David Morrissey’s meeting with a Syrian family
recently housed in London gave a human angle to the resettlement
process. Alek Wek also penned an op-ed for CNN, emphasizing to
global audiences the central importance of education for refugee
empowerment.

UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador, Khaled
Hosseini, with Ugandan Yahaya
Onduga, Head of the Local Committee
(LC) at Bidibidi settlement, Uganda.

With the OECD, UNHCR initiated a
mapping of non‑humanitarian, safe and
regulated entry and visa pathways used by
refugees in OECD countries. Initial findings,
presented in November 2017, are hoped
to better inform future UNHCR guidance
on complementary pathways, and improve

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

development programming and policy
approaches to this issue in OECD countries.
Together, ILO and UNHCR in 2017 explored
ways to implement complementary
pathways through labour mobility, which are
detailed in a joint work plan.

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

DURABLE SOLUTIONS
UNHCR assisted countries in the Asia
and the Pacific and the Middle East and
North Africa regions, as well as countries
concerned by the central Mediterranean
route situation, to design solutions strategies
for refugees and identified interventions
and partnerships that could expand refugee
access to these safe and regulated avenues.
At the regional level, the Office supported

the adoption of an African Union protocol
on free movement of people, the right of
residence and establishment, which will
create opportunities for refugees to access
solutions in the region. UNHCR established
new partnerships with, for example, the
United World Colleges (UWC) to expand
secondary education for refugee students
in third countries.

SUPPORT VOLUNTARY RETURN IN SAFETY AND DIGNITY. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Support refugees’ voluntarily return in
safety and dignity in situations where
conditions are conducive

Develop Multi-Year, Multi-Partner solutions
strategies, together with national
authorities, development partners and
other stakeholders, for the reintegration of
refugee and IDP returnees

Make integration more sustainable

218 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Supported governments and engaged with UNCTs on the inclusion of people of concern
in local and national development plans and sector-specific projects, including through
the roll-out of the CRRF and MYMP protection and solutions strategies.
Developed technical guidance for operations on inclusion in local and national development
plans.
Supported the government of Malawi to conduct an institutional capacity self-assessment
on RSD systems.

In 2017, less than 1 per cent of refugees attended university and
only 23 per cent attended secondary school. But UWC, a member of
UNHCR’s #WithRefugees coalition, is hoping its commitment to young
refugees and IDPs worldwide will help to change that.

UWC, which has 17 secondary schools on four continents, supported
47 refugee students to undertake their international baccalaureate
diploma in 2017 by giving them access to universities worldwide.
UWC’s students are selected by national committees in 159 countries
according to their potential and independent of socioeconomic means.

Developed 22 Multi-Year, Multi-Partner (MYMP) protection and solutions strategies.
These strategies include support for voluntary repatriation and reintegration, where
relevant, based on the context.

REALIZE POTENTIAL FOR INTEGRATION. IN 2017, UNHCR:

A UNHCR-supported initiative is working to provide 100 refugees
and internally displaced students with a scholarship for secondary
education at UWC schools and colleges every year.

A lack of access to education is a major issue facing young refugees.
Of the 19.9 million refugees under UNHCR’s mandate, half are
children. The education of these young refugees is crucial to the
peaceful and sustainable development of the countries that have
welcomed them, and to their home countries when they return. Yet
compared to other children and adolescents around the world, the
gap in opportunity for refugees has continued to grow.

Assisted 19,000 Rwandans to return home. The Rwanda Comprehensive Solutions
Strategy formally ended in December 2017. Since its inception in 2009, some
70,000 Rwandans have returned.
Conducted structured dialogues with refugees in countries of asylum, together with
national authorities, development partners, and other stakeholders, and with IDPs and
returnees in countries of origin to plan and support sustainable reintegration.

© UWC

The United World Colleges helps expand
refugee access to secondary education

Supported 518,600 refugees to voluntarily return in safety and dignity in situations
where conditions permitted.

The United World Colleges has helped
extend access to education for refugees.

Strengthen capacities for including specific
needs of people of concern in national
processes related to housing, land and
property projects in partnerships with
development actors

Implemented 3 projects on housing, land and property with development actors in
Myanmar, Somalia and Ukraine.
Continued to roll out a project in Niger aimed at identifying and resolving ongoing and
potential housing, land and property related challenges to the achievement of durable
solutions by refugees, IDPs and returnees.

SUPPORT COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT AND SELF-RELIANCE. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Identify obstacles to accessing rights
and related national services from the
perspective of affected communities

Worked with peacebuilding and development partners to include refugees from the
CAR in a national perception survey on justice, security and peace.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 219

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY EDUCATION

REALIZE POTENTIAL FOR RESETTLEMENT. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Made 75,200 resettlement submissions globally to 35 States.
Assisted 6 countries to develop and expand their resettlement and humanitarian
admission programmes through guidance and technical advice, training and
capacity-building activities, and the mobilization of international expertise.
Commissioned a review of its resettlement processing methods to maximize efficiencies
and map innovative field practices.

© UNHCR/Andrew McConnell

Submit resettlement cases

Submitted 10 comprehensive proposals outlining key resettlement priorities to
resettlement States, including to the European Union. This led to increased quotas by
several important State resettlement programmes, including Australia, Iceland, Sweden
and the United Kingdom.
Advocated, with resettlement States through the Syria Resettlement Core Group,
the submission of more than 37,000 cases for Syrian refugees.
Established a new core group for enhanced resettlement and complementary pathways
along the central Mediterranean route.
Arrange resettlement departures

Arranged the departure of some 65,100 refugees globally to 34 resettlement States.

Ensure the integrity of the process

Issued a new policy on addressing fraud committed by people of concern.
Undertook anti-fraud assessment missions and provided regular guidance to support
targeted operations on fraud risks, prevention and response.
Developed an online training module for the new anti-fraud policy.
Organized webinars for resettlement staff on integrity measures in case processing.

Training and capacity-building

Organized resettlement learning programmes, interview learning programmes and
counselling skills workshops, as well as on the job training in resettlement policy and
procedures for 300 UNHCR staff and affiliated workers.
Trained 46 government officials and NGO staff in new or emerging resettlement
countries on ERCM.
Launched a comprehensive web-based resettlement data portal (http://rsq.unhcr.org),
to provide an accessible evidence base of UNHCR’s global resettlement programme.

SUPPORT AND EXPAND COMPLEMENTARY PATHWAYS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Facilitate complementary pathways
for refugees to third countries and
mechanisms for enhanced protection and
solutions

“Refugees have skills and talents that only need
a chance to grow and flourish.”
—Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees

Supported States and partners in 6 countries to establish and develop
community-based sponsorship, including as a co-founder of the Global Refugee
Sponsorship Initiative.
In collaboration with the Government of Japan, supported 19 Syrian students and their
families to complete a master’s degree in Japan.
With the involvement of civil society, assisted 25 Syrian refugees to study at the
Universities of Toulouse and Montpellier, through a scholarship programme sponsored
by the Occitane-Pyrénées-Méditerranée region in France.
Supported Argentina and Brazil in implementing their humanitarian visa programmes
for Syrians, leading to the arrival of more than 600 Syrians in Argentina and the
establishment of necessary legal and institutional capacities in Brazil.

Capacities and partnerships strengthened
in the identification, development and
expansion of complementary pathways

Rohingya refugee children in the classroom after receiving school supplies in a camp school in Bangladesh.

Applying a “whole‑of‑society” approach,
UNHCR has systematically worked on the
commitment in SDG 4 to “ensure inclusive,
equitable quality education for all”. All
partners are encouraged to include refugee

children and youth in national education
plans. The CRRF approach builds on this
commitment by making the inclusion of
refugee children and youth in the national
education systems one of its core elements.

Forged new partnerships to expand resettlement and complementary pathways to
protection and solutions, including with the Global Refugee Sponsorship Initiative on
community sponsorship, the Center for Global Development on increasing financing for
resettlement, and the Community of Sant’Egidio on the humanitarian corridors project.
With the NGO partner, Talent Beyond Boundaries, established a database of refugee
talent in Jordan and Lebanon to expand labour mobility opportunities in third countries.
More than 9,000 refugees were registered in 2017.
Developed UNHCR training module on complementary pathways and trained staff
in the operations.

220 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 221

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

CHILDREN WORLDWIDE
THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

EDUCATION
AT A GLANCE | 2017

REFUGEE CHILDREN
CHILDREN WORLDWIDE

Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

REFUGEE CHILDREN

PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATES

CHILDREN WORLDWIDE

61%
91%

Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

As one of the Education 2030 co‑convening priorities to include refugees in national
agencies, UNHCR supported the Regional
education systems. Stronger collaboration
REFUGEE CHILDREN
SECONDARY
SCHOOL
ENROLLMENT RATES
Meeting of Ministers of Education of
with
the Intergovernmental
Authority
CHILDREN WORLDWIDE
Latin America and the Caribbean in
on Development (IGAD), which covers
January 2017 and the Ministerial SDG 4
seven countries in East Africa, led to a
Regional Forum for Eastern Africa held
commitment to include refugees in national
in the United Republic of Tanzania in
education systems by 2020 (see the Africa
February 2017. For both regions, States
regional summary).
made commitments and formulated
Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

23%
84%

REFUGEE CHILDREN

HIGHER
EDUCATION ENROLLMENT RATES
UNHCR’s multi-year partnership with Educate A Child
(EAC), an
CHILDREN
WORLDWIDE
initiative of the Education
Above
All foundation, founded and chaired
by Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser of Qatar, continued to
provide quality education and increase primary enrolment rates of
refugee and IDP children in 12 countries across Africa, Asia and
the Middle East.

1%
36%

The partnership between EAC and UNHCR has helped to strengthen
education programming, identifying and addressing barriers refugee
children face in enrolling, attending and completing primary school.
Source: UNESCO/UNHCR
This has been achieved
through activities such as the delivery of
certified qualifications, training courses for primary school teachers,
improvements to infrastructure and cash-based interventions. The
partnership has also supported host countries’ efforts to include
refugees and IDP children in national education planning. Close to
680,500 children were enrolled in primary education in EAC countries
of focus since the beginning of the project, including over 355,000
in 2017. “I like teaching refugee children who need teachers who can
understand their situation best and provide them with the special
care they need,” says Bako, a refugee teacher who received school
supplies from the UNHCR and EAC project in Uganda.

222 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Bako, a refugee teacher at the Ofonze
Primary School in Bidibidi settlement in
Uganda, poses with teaching supplies
received through the Educate A Child
programme.

61%
91%

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

SECONDARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATES

23%
84%

In 2017, UNHCR continued to address
UNHCR continued to support alternative
barriers to education for refugee students
and flexible education options for refugee
children and youth who have missed out
by supporting alternative pathways to
REFUGEE
CHILDREN
on substantial
amounts of RATES
schooling as a
secondary
education.
To that end, last
HIGHER EDUCATION
ENROLLMENT
CHILDREN
WORLDWIDE
result of forced displacement. Certified
year, the Office embarked on a multi-year
youth education programme to increase
accelerated education programmes helped
access and completion of secondary
increase access to flexible condensed
school for more than 230,000 displaced
education programmes. In addition, the
young people and host community
Office continued to lead the multi-agency
youth in Kenya, Pakistan, Rwanda and
accelerated education working group
Uganda. The programme sought to create
(AEWG)—a grouping that includes United
Source: UNESCO/UNHCR
opportunities for education and training,
Nations agencies, NGOs and development
creating pathways to higher education and
partners—and that works to expand
the quality of accelerated education
actively encouraging youth to participate in
programming globally.
decision-making processes and to monitor
programme impact.

1%
36%

© UNHCR/David Azia

Educate A Child Programme—Education
Above All Foundation

PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT RATES

UNHCR launched
a multi-year
youth education
programme
targeting
230,000 refugee
youth in four
countries to
encourage the
continuation of
studies through
secondary
education and
skills training.

Cash for education
Cash-based interventions (CBIs), when paired with education programmes, have
become a useful tool to address barriers to education in a variety of contexts.
UNHCR has increasingly used CBIs to support education of refugees and others of concern, while
also preserving their right to make choices about their own needs. In Pakistan, UNHCR provides cash
assistance to girls in grades 9-12 in refugee villages in Balochistan. Sensitive to the unique cultural constraints
placed on girls in the area, the Office has developed separate girls-only classrooms with female teachers and
located within two kilometres of the refugee villages. This allows girls to walk to school in groups rather than
take public transport. These seemingly simple adaptations to the programme design, combined with the financial
reward for school attendance, encourages families to allow their daughters to stay in school.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 223

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

REFUGEE CHILDREN
CHILDREN WORLDWIDE

Source: UNESCO/UNHCR

23%
84%

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

1%
36%

Access to higher education for refugees is a
pathway to solutions because it helps them
develop leadership skills and is often critical
for their future employment prospects.
Education also helps refugee students
gain the knowledge, skills and experience

needed to build a future for themselves
and their community. Many refugees who
graduate from higher education become
leaders in their communities, whether they
return to their country of origin, or settle in
their host country.

Innovative education programming and interventions, such as the
Instant Network Schools and the Humanitarian Education Accelerator,
helped boost refugee enrolments in education, improve the quality of
teaching and learning, and contributed to building an evidence base of
innovative education programmes.
In partnership with the Vodafone Foundation, UNHCR established
31 Instant Network Schools in the DRC, Kenya, South Sudan and the
United Republic of Tanzania. The integration of new technologies—
particularly interactive digital technologies—in teaching and learning
environments transformed classrooms into innovation hubs for
learning, thereby improving access to quality teaching and learning
resources. As of the end of 2017, nearly 62,500 young refugees and
over 860 teachers had benefitted from these services.

Girl students using tablets pre-loaded
with educational software at their Instant
Network Schools (INS) classroom in Juba
primary school, Dadaab, Kenya.

Through the Humanitarian Education Accelerator programme, UNICEF and UNHCR are working on approaches
to scale up innovative education projects. The programme helps five key partner organizations—Caritas, Kepler,
Libraries Without Borders, War Child and World University Service—to improve their monitoring and evaluation
capacity in their work to deliver education projects in more than nine countries in Africa, Europe and the
Middle East. With the support of the American Institute for Research, partner organizations in this work have
now all developed research and evaluation plans.
In addition to establishing robust data management and improving education data quality, UNHCR commenced
a roll out in 2017 of a refugee education management information system that captures education statistics on
refugee children. A regional workshop on this new system was held in Rwanda and included participants from
five countries in the East Africa region.

© UNHCR/Helena Pes

© UNHCR/Assadullah Nasrullah

Innovation for education

224 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

The Albert Einstein Academic Refugee
Initiative (DAFI), funded by the Government
of Germany, with support from other
partners including, increasingly, private
donors, provides scholarships that enable
refugees to undertake undergraduate
degree in their country of asylum. Since its
creation in 1992, more than 14,000 DAFI
refugee students have been supported
through higher education, including
6,700 refugee students in 50 countries
during 2017.

HIGHER EDUCATION ENROLLMENT RATES

The programme reported a 44 per cent
increase of DAFI scholarships in 2017
compared to 2016 and the programme
reach an additional 13 countries of
operation. Beyond scholarships, over
3,500 refugee students in 12 countries have
now participated in DAFI‑facilitated digital
connected learning programmes run by a
range of universities and organizations.

The DAFI higher
education
scholarship
programme has
continued to
help improving
refugee access to
higher education.
In 2017, the
programme
supported
6,700 refugee
students in
50 countries.

Award puts Malian refugee on road
to university in Mauritania
Fatimetou is the only woman among 2017’s 18 DAFI scholarship
recipients at Nouakchott University. The scholarship enables young
refugees to enrol in higher education. After her school in northern Mali
closed and she was forced to flee to Mauritania, she did not imagine
she would go to school again, let alone study English at university.

Fatimetou feels relieved after finishing
her first English exam at Nouakchott
University.

Most refugees in Mauritania have missed years of school and struggle
to acquire an education, particularly at higher level. Many face a
language barrier or lack the funds to support themselves during their
studies. Often, girls like Fatimetou with parents who are illiterate,
grow up believing that education is not an option for them.
Fatimetou completed her baccalaureate in Mbera camp, which
allowed her to compete for the DAFI scholarship. She is among a small
number who took on the challenge of studying English in the
Arabic- and French-speaking country.
“The most important thing to me is to help my community,” she said.
“I want to be able to talk about the reality we experience to the world,
and I know that learning English will help me do that. It will also help
me to understand the world and discover things that are different,
new and interesting ways of living.”

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 225

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY EDUCATION. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Provide technical support to operations
for inclusion of refugees within national
education systems and programmes

Together with the Global Partnership for Education, UNHCR supported 22 country
programmes to develop and implement national education policies, programmes and
practices that helped ensure students from both refugee and host communities could
access high-quality education through national systems.
Delivered 20 training and mentoring programmes.

Increase enrolment and retention of outof-school children and youth in primary
and post-primary education in country
operations

Increased primary school enrolment from 50% to 61% globally and enrolled over
355,000 refugee children in primary school in 12 countries under the UNHCR-EAC
partnership.

Expand and promote the use of innovation
in education

Expanded innovative educational services in 20 countries, benefitting more than
150,000 refugees through Instant Network Schools and humanitarian education accelerator
and other programmes.

Developed and launched a Youth Education Programme in 4 countries, focusing on
secondary education.

Coordinated the AEWG, which launched a set of guidance materials and a learning
agenda to strengthen the evidence base for accelerated education. Refugees accessed
accelerated education programmes in 10 countries.
Enhance access to tertiary education

Expanded the provision of scholarships through the DAFI programme to 6,700 students.

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

ECONOMIC INCLUSION AND LIVELIHOODS
UNHCR is committed to working in new
ways that include and empower refugees
and other people of concern. The Office
has sought to build on refugees’ resilience,
knowledge and skills, recognizing
the contribution they can make to the
development of their host communities.

Building on previous years’ results,
UNHCR expanded its work and
partnerships in 2017 to improve the
economic empowerment and inclusion of
refugees, in line with its global livelihoods
strategy and its 2017–2021 Strategic
Directions.

ECONOMIC INCLUSION AND LIVELIHOODS
AT A GLANCE | 2017

72

60 COUNTRIES

COUNTRIES

53 COUNTRIES

Engaging with developing actors

IMPLEMENTED LIVELIHOODS AND
ECONOMIC INCLUSION INITIATIVES

Engaging with private sector

43 COUNTRIES

Rolled out 10 Connected Learning programmes on connected learning to support
3,500 refugee students to participate in higher education programmes.

Facilitated access to financial
services for people of concern

Benefited from livelihoods and economic inclusion programmes:

1.2 MILLION
People of concern

Work to support refugees’ economic
independence continued to require diverse
partnerships with development, private
sector, government and civil society
partners. In 2017, UNHCR focused on
ensuring the sustainability and efficacy
of its work and economic inclusion and
livelihoods initiatives across 72 countries.
These efforts necessarily relied on the
involvement and support of key partners.
Reflecting the growing recognition of work
and employment to refugee well-being,
the Office also increased its number of in
country livelihoods experts from 39 in 2016
to 61 in 2017. UNHCR also worked with ILO
to assess labour market and other economic
factors in refugee hosting countries and
226 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

152,000
Host community members

completed analysis in six countries. These
assessments helped ensure that initiatives
designed to help boost refugee economic
independence took into account local
market conditions.

Expanding efforts for refugees’
economic and financial
inclusion in host countries
Building on the results of UNHCR’s
graduation approach pilots since 2014, the
Office worked with the NGO, Trickle Up,
to roll out new projects with this approach
targeting refugees and host community
members living in extreme poverty in
Argentina, Mozambique and Sudan in
2017. The Office also maintained its

The graduation
approach is a
time-bound,
sequenced
householdlevel livelihood
intervention,
which has
proven effective
in supporting
people living
in extreme
poverty and
other vulnerable
populations to
achieve sustained
income and asset
gains and begin
the journey out of
deep poverty.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 227

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

support of its existing projects in six other
countries—in Burkina Faso, Costa Rica,
Ecuador, Egypt, Zambia and Zimbabwe. In
all countries, UNHCR and Trickle Up worked
with government stakeholders and local
NGOs. The Office’s work to promote the

Promoting entrepreneurship

graduation approach generated interest
from government and development actors
in new contexts, such as Lebanon, Pakistan
and Uganda, who were keen to scope
out opportunities to invest in, and include
refugees in similar programmes.

UNHCR increased its collaboration in 2017
with development actors and the private
sector. These efforts helped ensure greater
leveraging of comparative advantage and
resources. UNHCR embarked on a global,
collaborative initiative to better link refugee
artisans’ access to international, regional

Inclusive Market System

INCLUSIVE MARKET SYSTEM

and local markets through the MADE51
initiative, which focuses on market access,
design and empowerment for refugee
artisans. The Office introduced product
lines created by refugees in partnerships
with local social enterprises in eleven
countries. The products underwent market
testing at the Maison & Objet trade show
in Paris.

AT A GLANCE | 2017
Improving livelihoods of people of concern and host communities through economic and financial inclusion.

“It is only through sales that these refugee artisans will
be able to employ their skills and earn income. By including
refugee-made products in their sourcing plans, retailers and brands
have a vital role to play. They can be part of the solution.”

natural
social

CAPITAL

INTERVENTIONS

physical

OUTCOMES

—Filippo Grandi, UN High Commissioner for Refugees
economic growth
human

empowerment

financial

resilience

regained dignity
© UNHCR/M.Ndubi

social cohesion
infrastructure
information

SERVICES

technology

assistance
limited access
to services

Market opportunities
open up for refugee entrepreneurs

training

finance

Kapya, a 40-year-old refugee, has lived in Kenya since 2000 after
fleeing war in the Congo. The only thing he carried with him was his
skill in making sculptures. Kapya currently employs six refugees and
three Kenyans and is a participant in UNHCR’s enterprise development
programme.

solutions

energy
participation

protection
jobs

limited access
to work

limited access
to information

xenophobia

CHALLENGES

norms

laws
standards

informal rules

registries

RULES AND REGULATIONS

Expanding its efforts to advance refugees’
financial inclusion, UNHCR also partnered
with UNCDF to establish a joint, multi‑year
facility to improve efforts to work with
financial service providers in ten countries.
The establishment of this new facility
helped encourage financial service
providers to grant refugees and host
communities access to credit, savings,
financial services and micro‑insurance.
UNHCR and the Swedish International

228 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Development Cooperation Agency (Sida)
also partnered with Grameen Crédit
Agricole Foundation to implement the
Credit Guarantee Facility in Jordan and
Uganda, which provides refugees and
host communities with access to financial
services through a lender’s guarantee
facility, as well as loans (for more
information on cash‑based interventions,
see the chapter on Responding with
Lifesaving support).

Kapya Katungwa, a refugee from the
Congo, arranging his pieces during the
Market Day in Nairobi, Kenya.

“I started carving when I was about 20-years-old back home in the
Congo. There are so many trees in my country and working with wood
is our tradition,” says Kapya.
Among the challenges experienced by refugee artisans are limited
access to local, national and international markets owing
to lack of documentation; lack of information on markets
available; and inaccessibility of product development
services.

Together with FAO and IFAD, UNHCR
worked on joint agriculture development
programmes in 12 countries, including value
chain development for livestock, animal
feed, crops and vegetables. Funded by
the IKEA Foundation, UNHCR continued
to work on irrigation infrastructure
development and livestock interventions
benefiting both refugees and the host

community in Dollo Ado, southern Ethiopia
(see Africa regional summary). By the end
of 2017, results appeared positive, with
self-sustained employment opportunities
generated for more than 1,500 households
including in irrigation, agriculture, animal
husbandry, livestock management, and
leather craft.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 229

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

Promoting the right to work
New refugee
policies were
adopted, or
are in the
process of being
implemented, in
countries such
as Djibouti and
Ethiopia, which
have granted
refugees broader
rights to foster
self-reliance and
inclusion.

While host governments, development
actors, the private sector and UNHCR have
made significant advances in fostering
refugee self reliance, access to legal
employment and decent work remains
limited in certain contexts.
Several CRRF roll-out countries started
adopting new policies to enable refugees to
benefit from essential social services on par
with nationals, as part of efforts to deliver
integrated services for both refugees
and host communities (see chapter on
Expanding partnerships).

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

To promote refugees’ access to local
labour markets, UNHCR deepened its
collaboration with ILO and OECD in 2017.
An ILO recommendation on employment
and decent work for peace and resilience
served as a useful advocacy tool and
a starting point for conversations with
stakeholders about refugees’ access to
employment and decent work. UNHCR
and OECD worked with private sector
stakeholders to tackle barriers to refugees’
employment and promoted refugees’
access to labour markets in OECD
countries. The fourth OECD dialogue held
in Canada saw 36 private sector employers
discuss and develop recommendations to
address barriers to refugees’ employment.
A joint UNHCR-OECD policy brief was
published and promoted with key
supporters of refugees in OECD countries.

AREAS OF INTERVENTION

FAVOURABLE PROTECTION ENVIRONMENT
DEVELOP OR STRENGTHEN LAW AND POLICY. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Advocate for law and policy to protect,
respect and fulfil the right to work for
refugees

IMPROVE SELF-RELIANCE AND ACCESS TO LIVELIHOODS. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Support and enhance enabling
environment for refugees’ economic
inclusion

Nargis Alinazar Timuri, a determined 27-year-old Afghan refugee, is
one of five refugees selected for this pilot apprenticeship programme,
along with five Tajik youngsters. She has been assigned to the
housekeeping department. “I couldn’t sleep after the first day, I was
really excited,” she said. The group will learn the secrets of high end
hospitality–from immaculate housekeeping and fine dining to basic
management. “I thought this is my chance to apprentice at an
international hotel,” said Nargis. “This could open doors for me in the
future, maybe even a job in a hotel anywhere in the world.”

Developed a joint OECD-UNHCR action plan to encourage employers to hire refugees,
based on the outcome of consultations with private sector employers in Europe and
Canada.
Worked with ILO to fundraise for implementation of market-based livelihoods interventions.
This resulted in the development of an agriculture project proposal and initial funding
approval of $6.1 million in Cameroon.

Promote the financial inclusion of refugees

Strengthened partnership with Sida to roll out a $15 million Credit Guarantee Facility in
Jordan and Uganda.
Extended financial services to refugees by partnering with Financial Sector Deepening
Africa in Rwanda for a market assessment and a “design sprint” competition for financial
service providers (FSPs).
Forged partnership with UNCDF on the establishment of a technical assistance facility
for FSPs in 10 countries, as well as research on issues affecting refugees’ access to
affordable remittance channels.

© UNHCR/Nodira Akbaralieva

Tajikistan hosts the largest number of refugees in the Central Asian
region, some 3,000 people, primarily from neighbouring Afghanistan.
To help both refugees and the local population to compete in the
labour market, UNHCR and the Sheraton Hotel launched an innovative
programme. The programme runs twice yearly, for four months at
a time. Upon completion, apprentices are issued with accredited
certificates.

Provided technical input and protection expertise during the drafting of an ILO
recommendation on employment and decent work for peace and resilience.

DURABLE SOLUTIONS

Increase income levels and employment
opportunities for poor and ultra-poor
refugees in a coordinated manner

UNHCR and Sheraton Hotel in Tajikistan
offer Afghan refugees a chance to shine

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

In partnership with Trickle Up, introduced the graduation approach targeting the poorest
and most vulnerable refugees and host community members in 3 countries (Argentina,
Mozambique and Sudan) in addition to the 6 pilots (in Burkina Faso, Costa Rica, Ecuador,
Egypt, Zambia, and Zimbabwe) for which continued support was provided on the
ongoing implementation of the strategy.
With FAO, launched joint agriculture programmes for refugees in 12 countries.

Increase technical capacity of UNHCR
country operations in economic inclusion
and livelihoods programming

Trained staff and partners in 18 operations and supported monitoring of the impact of
livelihoods interventions with revised livelihoods indicators, surveys and mobile-based
tools.
Deployed livelihood experts in 13 operations, 10 of which were identified through the
livelihoods roster.
Trained 50 UNHCR staff and partners on livelihoods and economic inclusion, including
through a global training session hosted by Hungary and an in-country training session
in Cameroon engaging government, humanitarian and development actors.

Nargis fled Afghanistan and was forced
to abandon her studies. She has been
selected with UNHCR and Sheraton to
participate in the pilot apprenticeship
programme.

Published the joint UNHCR-ILO “Guide to market-based livelihood interventions for
refugees” in 4 languages and shared with UNHCR field staff and other practitioners.
Trained 40 participants from UNHCR, ILO, government agencies, the private sector and
civil society on market-based livelihoods interventions for refugees. The course, offered
by UNHCR and ILO-ITC, will be held annually in the future.
Improve strategic planning for economic
inclusion and livelihoods

In collaboration with ILO, supported 6 countries (Argentina, Cameroon, the DRC,
Djibouti, Pakistan, and Tunisia) to complete market and value chain analysis. Results of
the assessments were used to design economic inclusion and livelihoods strategies that
are market-oriented.
With IFAD, developed a targeting study for refugees that will benefit from a 3-year
livestock project in 4 districts of Jordan.

230 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 231

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

people the possibility to work and study
longer. As a result, in Ethiopia, UNHCR
established energy cooperatives across
refugee and host communities, enabling
them to purchase energy for marketplace,
livelihood and household activities using

ACCESS TO ENERGY AND A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT
© UNHCR/Georgina Goodwin
© UNHCR/Tony Karumba

Launch of International Olympic Committee
campaign to bring light to refugee camps
There are around 4 million refugees living in more than 230 refugee
camps worldwide without access to adequate lighting. When night
falls, almost all activity ends. The effects of this are stark. There is no
option for family or community gatherings or activities; no possibility
for work, sports, culture, education or music.

A mother carries firewood to her shelter
at Mahama refugee camp in Rwanda’s
Eastern Province. When night falls, the
camp is in darkness.
A Burundian refugee works in the tree-planting nursery at Nduta camp, in the United Republic of Tanzania,
established by the NGO, Relief to Development Society.

Almost 10 million displaced people are
living in camp settings. The vast majority
of these people have minimal access to
energy for cooking, lighting, education or
livelihood activities. Many refugee camps
and settlements remain in ecologicallysensitive areas that are also vulnerable
to climate change (see the chapter on
Safeguarding fundamental rights). In
2017, UNHCR focused on addressing
environmental hazards that threaten people
of concern and host communities, and work
to mitigate the impacts of environmental
damage.
Providing for the
basic energy
needs of the
camp-based
refugees is
estimated to
cost more than
$500 million
per year.

Access to energy
In line with its Global Strategy for Safe
Access to Fuel and Energy (SAFE),
developed in 2014, UNHCR continued to
treat energy as a cross‑cutting issue. The
Office focused on expanding green energy

232 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

options for clean cooking, electricity,
lighting, as well as the use of clean and
affordable energy in refugee schools, health
and community centres.
Building on the CRRF approach, UNHCR
revised its monitoring tools and indicators
to improve how the impact of its energy
programmes was measured and to enable
evidence‑based programming for energy
interventions in refugee settings by the
private sector and development partners.
Lessons learned concerning cleaner fuels,
household and communal power, and
reduced dependency on fossil fuel were
collected to inform more efficient future
programming. UNHCR also focused on
improving refugees’ access to clean energy
to improve their health and well-being, in
particular for those living in camp settings.
Increasing access to electricity and lighting
for refugee and host communities improves
their safety, builds their dignity, and gives

solar mini‑grids to complement existing
power supplies. Refugees were also trained
as vendors for company products, thereby
creating an opportunity for refugees to
generate income.

It can be dangerous for refugees to do even the most mundane of
activities like walking to the washroom or going to see a friend—
especially for women and girls, who are exposed to a significant risk
of SGBV.
Through its “Become the light” campaign, the International Olympic
Committee has teamed up with UNHCR to bring light to
residents of Mahama refugee camp, in northern Rwanda.
The camp is home to more than 55,000 refugees who have
fled violence in neighbouring Burundi.

Environmental protection
UNHCR helped refugees and host
communities access climate finance,
building resilience against shocks, and
promoting awareness of climate change.
To increase the understanding and
management of natural resources, the
Office worked with partners to undertake
biomass and forest assessments and
developed environmental management
plans.

environmental actors before and after
disasters. In areas hosting Rohingya
refugees in Bangladesh, removal of
vegetation on hillsides has created erosion
and increased the landslide and flood
risk. UNHCR collaborated with the Asian
Disaster Preparedness Center and UNDP
to develop a risk map that will inform
preparedness and warning systems for
refugees.

To better understand and mitigate
environmental impacts during the early
critical phases of emergencies, UNHCR
collaborated with partners to develop
a coordinated assessment on the
environment in cases of humanitarian
action. This initiative aimed to improve
coordination of humanitarian and
UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 233

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

THEMATIC CHAPTERS | B U I L D I N G B E T T E R F U T U R E S

AREAS OF INTERVENTION
© UNHCR/Xavier Bourgois

Reforestation operation in Minawao
refugee site, Cameroon
As the region of Minawao in Cameroon faces critical deforestation
due to global warming and the activity of some 58,000 Nigerian
refugees, UNHCR and its partners, Land Life Company and LWF,
started a reforestation project. In the next two years, they expect to
plant—with the assistance of refugees—20,000 trees in and around the
site, using “cocoon” technology to allow plants to survive in a hostile
environment.
The “Make Minawao green again”
project aims to fight deforestation caused
by global warming and human activities
in Cameroon.

To ameliorate some of the immediate impacts
of environmental degradation, UNHCR has
worked with communities to improve clean
cooking practices for refugees and host
communities. Clean cooking practices have
helped to address the substantial health,
environmental, and social hazards related to

poor quality fuels. In Chad, the introduction
of fuel efficient wood reduced household
monthly wood use by 27 per cent.
If households continued to use this
technology at the same levels in 2018, this
could save an estimated 27 football fields of
forest and avoid 331 tons of CO2 emissions.

KEY ACHIEVEMENTS

BASIC NEEDS AND ESSENTIAL SERVICES
POPULATION HAS INCREASED ACCESS TO CLEAN ENERGY. IN 2017, UNHCR:
Create lighting solutions to improve safety
during hours of darkness

Installed solar mini grids in Ethiopia and Nepal to provide lighting and electricity.

Increase access to energy products and
services

In Rwanda, created livelihood opportunities for refugees by facilitating private sector
access to camps, and selling portable solar devices to ensure households have access
to a sustainable source of lighting.

Completed 12 megawatt solar power plant in Jordan, providing electricity to
80,000 people in Zaatari camp.

Trained refugees to act as vendors for company products, creating income generation
opportunities.
Reduce carbon emissions

Introduced initiative to reduce emissions at UNHCR Headquarters and the need for
offsets in the future. The solar farm in Jordan allows the yearly reduction of about
14,000 tons of CO2.

Improve health and well-being through
safe energy initiatives

In collaboration with other agencies and private sector, implemented an “alternatives to
generators” strategy. A template for future hybrid energy solutions is being developed
in Ethiopia and Zimbabwe.
Finalized the procurement specifications for improved cooking stoves, having
established long-term agreements with suppliers.
In Cameroon, continued the partnership with Landlife Company on its innovative
watering cocoon, which helps trees survive and thrive in harsh conditions. Installed
10,000 tree cocoons on camp and host community lands, with the long term view of
improving the Zamay forest.

Build capacity and expertise and
strengthen partnerships

Strengthened private sector and NGO partnerships, including with Eurelectric, GIZ,
Phillips Lighting Foundation, Practical Action, Schneider and UNITAR to increase
refugees’ access to energy.
Updated and standardized environmental impact assessment approaches in emergency
settings.

Refine and improve energy interventions
through monitoring and evaluation

234 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Developed and improved energy indicators that will better measure (and monitor)
energy programmes. Tested these newly developed indicators in Burkina Faso, Chad,
Rwanda and the United Republic of Tanzania.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 235

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

EXCOM MEMBERS
AND PARTIES TO CONVENTIONS

ANNEXES

ANNEXES

MEMBERS OF UNHCR’s EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
AND STATES PARTIES TO THE REFUGEE AND
STATELESSNESS CONVENTIONS
UNHCR is governed by the United Nations General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). In 1958,
ECOSOC established the Executive Committee of the High Commissioner’s Programme (ExCom), pursuant to a resolution
of the General Assembly. Its main tasks are to approve the High Commissioner’s programmes, advise the High
Commissioner in the exercise of his functions (mainly on protection issues), and oversee the Office’s finances and
administration.
ExCom holds an annual session in Geneva every October. The 68th session took place from 2 to 6 October 2017. Meetings
of the Executive Committee’s Standing Committee are held at various dates throughout the year to carry on the work
between plenary sessions.
ExCom membership is on the widest possible geographical basis from those States (members of the United Nations) with
a demonstrated interest in, and devotion to, the solution of refugee problems. By the end of 2017, there were 101 ExCom
members in the following table - in blue - which also shows the State Parties to the 1951 Refugee Convention relating to
the Status of Refugees and its Protocol of 1967 and to the 1954 Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons and
the 1961 Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness.

ExCom members (in blue)
and other States parties
to the Conventions

Conventions on
the Status of
Stateless Persons and
Convention
relating to the Status the Reduction of
Statelessness
of Refugees and its
Protocol

1954 1961
1951 1967

Fiji, Lithuania and
Paraguay became
ExCom members
in 2017.

Afghanistan
Albania
Algeria
Angola
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas (the)
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bolivia
(Plurinational State of)

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon

236 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

1951 1967

1992 1992

2003 2003

Canada
Central African Republic

1963 1967

1964

(the)

2005 2005

1981 1981
1995 1995

1988

1961 1967

1972 2014

1993 1993

1994 1994

1954 1973

1973 1973

1954 1973

2008 1972

1993 1993

1996 1996

1993 1993
1972
2001 2001
1953 1969

1960 2014

1990 1990

2006 2015

1962 1970

2011 2011

1982 1982

1983 1983

1993 1993

1993 1996

1969 1969

1969

1960 1972

1996 2007

1993 1993

2012 2012

1980 1980

2012 2017

1963 1971
1987
1992 1992
1961 1967

Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d’Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czechia
Dem. Rep. of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon

1954 1961

1969 1969

1978

1962 1967
1981 1981

1999 1999

1972 1972
1982 1982
1961 1980

2014

1962 1970
1978 1978

1977 1977

1961 1970

2013 2013

1992 1992

1992 2011

1963 1968
1993 1993

2004 2001

1965 1975
1952 1968

1956 1977

1977 1977
1994 1994
1978 1978
1955 1969

1970 2012

1981 1981
1983 1983

2015

1986 1986
1997 1997
1969 1969
1972 1972

1972

1968 1968

1968 2008

1954 1971

1960

1964 1973

Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea‑Bissau
Haiti
Holy See
Honduras
Hungary
Iceland
India
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kyrgyzstan
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Namibia
Nauru
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Norway
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay

1951 1967

1954 1961

1966 1967

2014 2014

1999 1999

2011 2014

1953 1969

1976 1977

1963 1968
1960 1968
1983 1983

1975
2000 2001

1965 1968

1962 2014

1976 1976

2016 2016

1984 1984
1956 1967
1992 1992

2012 2012

1989 1989

2001 2009

1955 1968
1976 1976
1956 1968

1962 1973

1954 1968

1958

1954 1972

1962 2015

1964 1980

2013

1981 1982
1999 1999
1966 1981
1983 1983
1996 1996
1997 1997
1981 1981
1964 1980

1999 1992
1974 2004
1964 2004
1989 1989

1957 1968

2009 2009

1997 1997

2000 2013

1953 1971

1960 2017

1967
1987 1987

2009

1973 1973

2016 2016

1971 1971
1987 1987
2000 2000

2000

1954 2010
2006 2006

2006 2013

1956 1971
1983 1989

2014 2014

1995 1995
2011 2011
1956 1968

1962 1985

1960 1973

2006

1980 1980

2013 2013

1961 1970

2014 1985

1967 1968

2011 2011

1953 1967

1956 1971

1978 1978

2011 2011

1986 1986
1970 1970

2014 2012

Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Rwanda
Saint Kitts and Nevis
Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines
Samoa
Sao Tome and Principe
Senegal
Serbia
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
Spain
Sudan
Suriname
Swaziland
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia
Timor-Leste
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine

1951 1967

1954 1961

1964 1983

2014 2014

1981 1981

2011

1991 1991
1960 1976

2012 2012

1992 1992

1962

2002 2002

2012 2012

1991 1991

2006 2006

1993 1993
1980 1980

2006 2006

2002
1993 2003

1999

1988 1994
1978 1978
1963 1967

2005 2005

2001 2001

2001 2011

1980 1980
1981 1981

2016 2016

1993 1993

2000 2000

1992 1992

1992

1995 1995
1978 1978
1996 1996
1978 1978

1997

1974 1974
1978 1978
2000 1969

1999 1999

1954 1967

1965 1969

1955 1968

1972

1993 1993

1994 1994

1994

2003 2003
1962 1969
2000 2000

1966

1957 1968

1969 2000

1962 1968

2015

1998 1998

2011 2012

1986 1986
1976 1976

1965

2002 2002

2013 2013

United Kingdom of
Great Britain
and Northern Ireland

1954 1968

1959 1966

United Republic of
Tanzania

1964 1968

United States of America
Uruguay

1968
1970 1970

Venezuela

Total Parties

2004 2001

1986

(Bolivarian Republic of)

Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Burkina Faso and
Luxembourg acceded to
the 1961 Convention on
the Reduction of
Statelessness in 2017.

1980 1980
1969 1969

1974

1981 1981

1998

145.

146

89.

70

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 237

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

Asylum

Brazil Plan of Action

The granting of protection by a
State on its territory to
individuals from another State
who are fleeing persecution or
serious danger. Asylum
encompasses a variety of
elements, including
non-refoulement, permission to
remain on the territory of the
asylum country and humane
standards of treatment.	
	

In 2014, the Governments of
Latin America and the
Caribbean met in Brasilia to
mark the 30th anniversary of the
Cartagena Declaration on
Refugees of 1984. At the end of
the Ministerial Meeting,
28 countries and three
territories in Latin America and
the Caribbean adopted by
acclamation the Declaration and
Plan of Action of Brasilia,
agreeing to work together to
maintain the highest standards
of protection at the international
and regional level, implement
innovative solutions for refugees
and displaced people, and end
the difficult situation faced by
stateless persons in the region.

Asylum-seeker
Any person who is seeking
international protection.
In countries with
individualized procedures, an
asylum-seeker is someone
whose claim has not yet been
finally decided on by the
country in which the claim is
submitted. Not every
asylum-seeker will ultimately
be recognized as a refugee,
but every refugee was initially
an asylum-seeker.

AU Convention for the
Protection and Assistance of
Internally Displaced Persons in
Africa (Kampala Convention)
This African Union Convention
was adopted in 2009 and
entered into force on
6 December 2012. It is the first
legally binding instrument on
internal displacement on a
continent-wide scope.
It provides a comprehensive
regional framework setting out
provisions for the protection
and assistance of IDPs. The
Convention also looks at the
root causes of displacement
and at ways to prevent it.

Cash-based interventions
Refers to all interventions in which
cash or vouchers for goods or
services are provided to refugees
and other people of concern on
an individual or community basis.
The concept does not include
cash or vouchers provided to
governments or other state actors
or payments to humanitarian
workers or service providers. The
term can be used interchangeably
with cash-based transfers, cash
transfer programming and cash
assistance.

Cessation clauses
Legal provisions that set out the
conditions in which refugee
status comes to an end
because it is no longer needed
or justified. Cessation clauses
are found in Article 1C of the
1951 Convention and in
Article I.4 of the 1969 OAU
Refugee Convention.	

Best interests assessment
Assessment made by staff
regarding the individual
protection needs of children of
concern to UNHCR to ensure
that care programmes give
primary consideration to the
child’s best interests.

Community-based protection
approach
An inclusive partnership
strategy that recognizes and
builds on the capacities and
resources of people of concern,
by promoting participation in
programme activities.

Best interests determination
Formal process with strict
procedural safeguards
designed to determine the
child’s best interests for
particularly important decisions
affecting the child.
238 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

admitted and stay in a country,
and have their international
protection needs met while
they are also able to support
themselves to potentially reach
a sustainable and lasting
solution. Complementary
pathways are not meant to
substitute the protection
afforded to refugees under the
international protection
regime—they complement it
and serve as an important
expression of global solidarity,
international cooperation and
more equitable
responsibility-sharing. These
pathways may include family
reunification, scholarship and
education programmes, as well
as labour regional mobility
schemes.

Complementary pathways for
admission to protection and
solutions for refugees
Safe and regulated avenues by
which refugees may be

Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework (CRRF)
See New York Declaration for
Refugees and Migrants.

Comprehensive solutions
strategies
Strategies whereby UNHCR
engages with concerned
parties (including authorities in
country of asylum, origin and
affected refugees themselves)
with the aim of enhancing
solutions opportunities by
applying a combination of
durable solutions. These
strategies have included
support for voluntary
repatriation; the strategic use of
resettlement; increased
opportunities for local
integration; support to
refugee-hosting communities
by UNHCR, development
partners and bilateral donors;
as well as maximized
opportunities for greater
mobility as a pathway to
solutions.

Convention on the Reduction of
Statelessness (1961 Convention)
A treaty that provides for the
acquisition of nationality by
those who would otherwise be
stateless and who have an
appropriate link with the State,
through birth on the territory or
through descent from a national.
The Convention also provides

for the retention of nationality by
those who would become
stateless if they were to lose
their nationality to that State.
UNHCR has been mandated
with specific functions under
Article 11 of the Convention.

national protection for civil,
cultural, economic, political and
social rights. Durable solutions
can be achieved through
voluntary repatriation, local
integration, resettlement or
complementary pathways.	

Convention refugees

Earmarking

Persons recognized as
refugees by States, under the
eligibility criteria in Article 1 of
the 1951 Convention, and who
are entitled to the enjoyment of
a variety of rights under that
treaty.

A donor restriction that limits or
directs the purpose for which a
contribution may be used.

Convention relating to the
Status of Refugees
(1951 Convention)
This treaty establishes the most
widely applicable framework for
the protection of refugees.
The Convention was adopted in
July 1951 and entered into force
in April 1954. Article 1 of the
Convention limits its scope to
“events occurring before
1st January 1951” but this
restriction was removed by the
1967 Protocol relating to the
Status of Refugees.

Convention relating to the
Status of Stateless Persons
(1954 Convention)
A Convention that provides the
definition of a stateless person
and establishes a framework by
which a stateless person, who
is lawfully resident in a State,
can have legal status. The
Convention was adopted in
September 1954 and entered
into force in June 1960.

Dublin II regulation
A European Council Regulation,
effective from 1 September 2003,
which provides the legal basis
for establishing the criteria and
mechanism for determining the
State responsible for examining
an asylum application in one of
the Member States of the EU
(excluding Denmark), as well as
in Iceland, Liechtenstein,
Norway and Switzerland.

Durable solutions
A durable solution is achieved
when a sustainable legal status
is obtained which ensures

UNRESTRICTED CONTRIBUTIONS
(also referred to as
unearmarked funding)
No limitations on the use of
funds.

SOFTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTION
Earmarked contributions
towards a region (e.g. Africa),
sub-region (e.g. West Africa),
Headquarters or global
programmes. Also includes
contributions for a specific Pillar
(e.g. Pillar 1 – Refugees) at the
global, regional or sub-regional
level; as well as contributions for
supplementary programmes that
cover more than one country,
such as at the sub-regional or
regional level for a specific
situation (e.g. Somalia situation);
and contributions that are
earmarked for a specific theme
or activity at the sub-regional
level or higher.

EARMARKED CONTRIBUTION
Contributions that are
earmarked for a specific
country, location or population
without any further limitations.
Also includes contributions for
supplementary programmes
that cover only one country.

TIGHTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTION
Contributions that are
earmarked at the country level,
Headquarters or global
programmes cost centres for
specific sectors and/or
activities. All in-kind
contributions and staff-related
contributions, including JPOs,
consultants and secondees fall
under this category.

Exclusion clauses
Legal provisions that deny the
benefits of international
protection to people who would
otherwise satisfy the criteria for
refugee status.
In the 1951 Convention, the
exclusion clauses are found in
Articles 1D, 1E and 1F. These
clauses apply to the following
categories:
• Individuals who are receiving
protection or assistance from
United Nations agencies other
than UNHCR.
• Individuals who possess the
rights and obligations attached
to the possession of nationality
of their country of residence.
• Individuals in respect of whom
there are serious reasons for
considering that they have
committed a crime against
peace, a war crime, a crime
against humanity, a serious
non-political crime, or acts
contrary to the purposes and
principles of the United
Nations.

Executive Committee of the
High Commissioner’s
Programme (ExCom)
The Committee charged with
approving UNHCR’s assistance
programmes, advising the
High Commissioner on the
exercise of his/her functions
and overseeing the Office’s
finances and administration.
ExCom is composed of
representatives of 101 States
(2017) with a demonstrated
interest in refugee issues.

First country of asylum concept
An asylum-seeker may be
refused access to the asylum
procedure in the country where
the application has been made
if the applicant has already
found protection as a refugee
in another country (i.e. where
international protection has
been made available and is
accessible to the applicant).

Global compact on refugees
See New York Declaration for
Refuges and Migrants.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 239

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

ANNEXES | G LO S S A RY

Graduation approach
The graduation approach is a
poverty-reduction model that
aims to “graduate” people in
rural areas out of poverty
through a sequenced
combination of interventions.
The approach is part of
UNHCR’s “Global Strategy for
Livelihoods 2014-2018”.

Grand Bargain	
An agreement reached in the
lead-up to the World
Humanitarian Summit between
the biggest donors and aid
organizations across ten work
streams, which aims to shrink
the humanitarian funding gap
and deliver more aid to the
frontline. The initiative stemmed
from the recommendations
contained in the report of the
UN Secretary-General’s High
Level Panel’s on Humanitarian
Financing, “Too important to
fail: addressing the
humanitarian financing gap”.

Humanitarian Country Team
Composed of organizations
undertaking humanitarian
action that commit to
participate in coordination
arrangements. Its objective is
to ensure that the activities of
such organizations are
coordinated, and that
humanitarian action in-country
is principled, timely, effective
and efficient, and contributes
to longer-term recovery.

Inter-Agency Standing
Committee
The primary mechanism for
inter-agency coordination of
humanitarian assistance.

ANNEXES | G LO S S A RY

Internally displaced person
An individual who has been
forced or obliged to flee
from the individual’s home or
place of habitual residence,
“…in particular as a result of
or in order to avoid the
effects of armed conflicts,
situations of generalized
violence, violations of human
rights or natural or
human-made disasters, and
who have not crossed an
internationally recognized
State border” (according to
the Guiding Principles on
Internal Displacement).

International protection
All actions aimed at ensuring
the equal access to and
enjoyment of the rights of
women, men, girls and boys of
concern to UNHCR, in
accordance with the relevant
bodies of law (including
international humanitarian,
human rights and refugee law).	

Junior Professional Officer
Government-sponsored young
professional working for
UNHCR.

Local integration
Involves a durable legal status
for refugees in the country of
asylum which ensures national
protection for rights without
discrimination.

Malnutrition

• Kwashiorkor
Malnutrition brought on by a
protein deficiency which causes
fluids to drain from the blood into
the stomach, causing swelling.
• Marasmus
Resulting from a general lack of
calories, causing extreme
emaciation with a loss of
muscle and fat tissue. It is
considered a medical
emergency and, untreated, will
most often result in death.

Mandate refugees
People who are recognized as
refugees by UNHCR acting
under the authority of its
Statute and relevant UN
General Assembly resolutions.
Mandate status is especially
significant in States that are not
party to the 1951 Refugee
Convention or its 1967 Protocol.

Master plan
A comprehensive settlement
plan that defines land use,
emphasizing its links to the
broader environment, enabling
both refugees and host
communities to benefit from
improved services and
infrastructure. This approach
integrates the spatial, social,
cultural, environmental and
economic dynamics of a
particular location to ensure all
basic needs of the affected
population are addressed
within one common vision.

A general term for the medical
condition that is caused by an
improper or insufficient
nutrition, which is not adequate
to maintain good health. The
adverse effects of malnutrition
include both physical and
developmental manifestations.

Mixed movements

GLOBAL ACUTE MALNUTRITION
(GAM)

Multi-Year, Multi-Partner

The measurement of the
nutritional status of a
population (often used in
protracted refugee situations).
It is one of the basic indicators
for assessing the severity of a
humanitarian crisis.

240 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

SEVERE ACUTE MALNUTRITION

Cross-border movements of
people with varying protection
profiles, reasons for moving and
needs, who are moving along
the same routes and using the
same means of transportation or
travel.

A multi-year approach that will
be included in UNHCR planning
to support inclusion and
comprehensive solutions for
people of concern and will
engage a broader range of
partners, including
development actors, to plan
with a longer-term vision.

New or Additional Activities—
Mandate-related (NAM) Reserve
Established to facilitate the
acceptance of additional funding
from donors for activities
consistent with the mandate and
capacity of UNHCR and the
broad objectives of a country
operation, but for which no
express budgetary provision had
been made.

New York Declaration for
Refugees and Migrants
On September 2016, the
UN General Assembly adopted a
set of commitments to enhance
the protection of refugees and
migrants, known as the New York
Declaration for Refugees and
Migrants. It outlines elements for
a comprehensive response to
refugee displacement based on
principles of international
cooperation and
responsibility-sharing as well as
greater inclusion of refugees into
local communities.
This Comprehensive Refugee

Response Framework (CRRF)
is now being applied in a range
of specific situations, through the
mobilization of existing and new
partnerships with development
actors, humanitarian NGOs, the
private sector and civil society
under the lead of host
governments.
It contains four key elements
aimed at providing more
predictable and sustainable
responses to large movements
of refugees so as to:
• Ease pressure on hosting
countries.
• Enhance refugees’ self reliance.
• Expand access to
third-countries solutions.
• Support conditions in countries
of origin for return in safety and
dignity for refugees.
The New York Declaration calls
on UNHCR to develop and
initiate the practical application of
the CRRF in each situation
involving large-scale movements
of refugees, with a view to
informing the global compact on
refugees, to be adopted by the
General Assembly in 2018.

OAU Convention Governing the
Specific Aspects of Refugee
Problems in Africa
This regional complement to
the 1951 Convention provides
for a broader refugee definition.
Adopted in 1969, the OAU
Convention stipulates that the
term “refugee” also “applies to
those fleeing from external
aggression, occupation, foreign
domination or events seriously
disturbing public order in either
part or whole of the country of
origin.”

Person of concern to UNHCR
A person whose protection and
assistance needs are of interest
to UNHCR. This includes
refugees, asylum-seekers,
stateless persons, internally
displaced people and
returnees.

Persons with specific needs
Individuals, families or groups,
requiring additional support in
order to enable them to
overcome the challenges they
face in accessing and enjoying
their rights.

Prima facie refugees
Individuals or a group of
individuals who are
recognized as refugees, by a
State or UNHCR, on the
basis of objective criteria
related to the circumstances
in their country of origin,
justifying a presumption that
they meet the criteria of the
applicable refugee
definition.

Programme support costs
The costs of organizational units,
whose primary functions are the
formulation, development,
delivery and evaluation of
UNHCR programmes.

Protection
All activities aimed at obtaining
full respect for the rights of the
individual, in accordance with
the letter and the spirit of the
relevant bodies of law (such as
international human rights law,
international humanitarian law
and international refugee law.).

Protection Information
Management
Principled, systematized, and
collaborative processes to
collect, process, analyze, store,
share, and use data and
information to enable
evidence-informed action for
quality protection outcomes.

Refoulement
The removal of a person to a
territory where he/she would
be at risk of being persecuted,
or being moved to another
territory where he/she would
face persecution. Under
international refugee law and
customary international law,
refoulement is permitted only in
exceptional circumstances.

Refugee
A refugee is any person who,
“...owing to well-founded fear
of being persecuted for
reasons of race, religion,
nationality, membership of a
particular social group or
political opinion, is outside
the country of his [or her]
nationality and is unable or,
owing to such fear, is
unwilling to avail him [or her]
self of the protection of that
country; or who, not having a
nationality and being outside
the country of his [or her]
former habitual residence as
a result of such events, is
unable or, owing to such fear,
is unwilling to return to it.”
Article 1A(2) of the 1951
Convention
or
“who is outside his/her
country of origin or habitual
residence and is unable to
return there because of
serious and indiscriminate
threats to life, physical
integrity or freedom resulting
from generalized violence or
events seriously disturbing
public order.”
OAU Convention and
Cartagena Declaration.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 241

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

ANNEXES | G LO S S A RY

ANNEXES | G LO S S A RY

Refugee Coordination Model

Reintegration

In line with the High
Commissioner’s mandate,
it outlines UNHCR’s role
and responsibilities and
re-articulates and standardizes
UNHCR’s responsibility to lead
and coordinate international
actions relating to refugees
with all partners engaged in the
response through an
inter-agency platform and
under the overall leadership of
the host government.

A process which enables
returnees to regain the
physical, social, legal and
material security needed to
maintain their lives, livelihoods
and dignity, and which
eventually leads to the
disappearance of any
distinctions or discrimination
vis-à-vis their compatriots.

Refugee status determination
Legal and administrative
procedures undertaken by
States and/or UNHCR to
determine whether an
individual should be recognized
as a refugee in accordance with
national and international law.	

Refugee-like situation
The category of people in a
refugee-like situation is
descriptive in nature and
includes groups of people who
are outside their country of
origin and who face protection
risks similar to those of
refugees, but for whom refugee
status has, for practical or other
reasons, not been ascertained.

Registration
Registration can be carried out
in different manners, depending
on the operational
circumstances and data
requirements. Level 1
Registration, often referred to
as “household registration”,
gathers only elementary
information from people of
concern for the purpose of
establishing a basic distribution
system or to provide
demographic estimates. In
Level 2 Registration, limited
personal data is collected from
each individual, for basic
planning, monitoring and
protection activities. Level 3
Registration represents the
most comprehensive recording
of detailed personal data of
people of concern, which is
required for individual case
management and delivery of
durable solutions.

242 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

Returnee
A person who was of
concern to UNHCR when
outside his/her country of
origin and who remains so,
for a limited period (usually
two years), after returning to
the country of origin. The
term also applies to
internally displaced people
who return to their previous
place of residence.

Resettlement
The transfer of refugees from
the country in which they have
sought asylum to another State
that has agreed to admit them.
The refugees will usually be
granted asylum or some other
form of long-term resident
rights and, in many cases, will
have the opportunity to
become naturalized citizens.
For this reason, resettlement is
a durable solution as well as a
tool for the protection of
refugees. It is also a practical
example of international burden
and responsibility-sharing.

Resettlement Core Group
Core and Contact Groups are
established through the
agreement of resettlement
States and UNHCR based on a
joint assessment of the need
for a coordinated, multi-annual
approach to resettlement.
In particular, Core Groups aim
to facilitate and improve
information-sharing initiatives,
enhance dialogue among
stakeholders, increase
predictability to the planning of
resettlement activities in
relation to the specific refugee
situation, including the number
of resettlement places offered
and the number of countries
involved.

Results-based
management
A management philosophy and
approach that emphasize the
achievement of results as the
essential task of management.

Safe third country concept
An asylum-seeker may be
refused access to the asylum
procedure in the country where
the application has been made
if responsibility for assessing
the asylum application in
substance is assumed by a
third country, where the
asylum-seeker will be protected
from refoulement and will be
able to seek and enjoy asylum
in accordance with accepted
international standards.

Secondary movements
The notion refers to
asylum-seekers and refugees
moving independently from
their first host country to
another country in search of
protection and solutions.

identifying a set of minimum
standards for lifesaving sectors
of WASH, food security and
nutrition, shelter and NFIs and
health actions, in order to
improve the quality of
assistance provided to people
affected by disasters, and to
enhance the accountability of
the humanitarian system in
disaster response.

Stateless person
Person who is not
considered as a national, by
any State under the
operation of its law, including
people whose nationality is
not established.

Refers to the ability of
individuals, households or
communities to meet their
essential needs and enjoy their
human rights in a sustainable
manner and to live with dignity.

Sexual and gender-based
violence
Acts that inflict physical, mental
or sexual harm or suffering,
threats of such acts, coercion or
arbitrary deprivation of liberty
that target individuals or groups
of individuals on the basis of
their gender.

Sphere project
The Sphere project was
launched in 1997 by a group of
humanitarian NGOs and the
Red Cross and the Red
Crescent Movement. The
project has developed several
tools, such as a handbook,

Children in a situation of
displacement who are not in
the company of parents or
another adult caregiver.

Voluntary repatriation
Return to the country of origin
based on the refugees’ free
and informed decision.
Voluntary repatriation may be
organized (when it takes place
under the auspices of the
concerned governments and/or
UNHCR) or spontaneous (the
refugees return by their own
means with no involvement of
UNHCR and governments).

World Humanitarian Summit
Subsidiary protection
Beneficiaries of subsidiary
protection are people who have
been found not to meet the
Convention definition of a
refugee but who face a real risk
of serious harm. This includes
the death penalty or execution,
torture or inhuman or
degrading treatment, or a
serious and individual threat to
their life or person by reason of
indiscriminate violence in
situations of armed conflict.	

Temporary protection
Self-reliance

Unaccompanied and separated
children

An arrangement or device
developed by States to offer
protection, of a temporary
nature, to people arriving en
masse from situations of
conflict or generalized violence,
without prior individual status
determination. Temporary
protection has been mostly
used in industrialized States.

An initiative of the
UN Secretary-General, the
Summit was held in Istanbul,
Turkey, on 23-24 May 2016
and had three main goals:
• To re-inspire and reinvigorate
a commitment to humanity and
to the universality of
humanitarian principles.
• To initiate a set of concrete
actions and commitments to
countries and communities to
better prepare for and respond
to crises, and be resilient to
shocks.
• To share best practices which
can help save lives around the
world, put affected people at
the centre of humanitarian
action, and alleviate suffering.

Trafficking (human)
The organized illegal
movement of people for profit.
The critical additional factor
that distinguishes trafficking
from migrant smuggling is the
use of force, coercion and/or
deception throughout, or at
some stage in the process.
While the additional elements
that distinguish trafficking from
migrant smuggling may
sometimes be obvious, in many
cases they are difficult to prove
without active investigation.

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 243

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

ACRONYMS
3RP Regional Refugee and
Resilience Plan in response to
the Syria crisis.
ACTED Agence d’Aide à la
Coopération technique et au
Développement
AfDB African Development
Bank
AGD Age, gender and diversity
ASEAN Association of
Southeast Asian Nations
AU African Union
BIMS Biometric Identity
Management System
BPA Brazil Plan of Action
CBIs Cash-based interventions
CCCM Camp coordination and
camp management (cluster)
CCF Common Cash Facility
CERF Central Emergency
Response Fund
COI Country of origin
information
COP Country Operations Plan
(for UNHCR)
COP21 Conference of the
Parties to the United Nations
Framework Convention on
Climate Change
CRIs Core relief items
CRRF Comprehensive Refugee
Response Framework
DAFI German Albert Einstein
Academic Scholarship
Programme for Refugees
DFID Department for
International Development
(United Kingdom)
DPKO Department of
Peacekeeping Operations (UN)

244 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

EC European Commission
ECA Economic Commission for
Africa (UN)
ECHO Directorate-General for
European Civil Protection and
Humanitarian Aid Operations
ECOSOC Economic and Social
Council (UN)
ECOWAS Economic Community
of West African States
ETM Emergency transit
mechanism
EU European Union
ExCom Executive Committee
of the High Commissioner’s
Programme

ICVA International Council of
Voluntary Agencies

MSB Swedish Civil
Contingencies Agency

IDA International Development
Association (World Bank)

MYMP Multi-Year, Multi-Partner
(for UNHCR)

IDMC Internal Displacement
Monitoring Centre

NCA North of Central America

IDP Internally displaced person
IFAD International Fund for
Agricultural Development
IFRC International Federation
of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies
IGAD Intergovernmental
Authority on Development
ILO International Labour
Organization

FAO Food and Agriculture
Organization (UN)

IOM International Organization
for Migration

GAM Global acute malnutrition

IPSAS International Public
Sector Accounting Standards

GIZ Deutsche Gesellschaft für
Internationale Zusammenarbeit
(German Agency for
International Cooperation)
GPC Global Protection Cluster
GSC Global Shelter Cluster
GSP Global Strategic Priority
(for UNHCR)
HALEP High Alert List for
Emergency Preparedness
HIV and AIDS Human
Immunodeficiency Virus and
Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome
IASC Inter-Agency Standing
Committee
IATI International Aid
Transparency Initiative
ICT Information and
communications technology
ICRC International Committee
of the Red Cross

IRC International Rescue
Committee
IYCF Infant and young child
feeding
JICA Japan International
Cooperation Agency
JIPS Joint IDP Profiling Service
JPO Junior Professional Officer
KAP Knowledge, attitude and
pratices
LGBTI Lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender and intersex
LWF Lutheran World Federation
MERCOSUR Mercado Común
del Sur (Common Market of the
South)
MIRPS Marco Integral
Regional para la Protección y
Soluciones (Comprehensive
Regional Protection and
Solutions Framework)

NFIs Non-food items
NGO Non-governmental
organization
NRC Norwegian Refugee
Council
OAS Organization of American
States
OAU Organization of African
Unity
OCHA Office for the
Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (UN)
OECD Organization for
Economic Cooperation and
Development
OHCHR Office of the High
Commissioner for Human
Rights (UN)
OPEC Organization of the
Petroleum Exporting Countries
OSCE Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe
PRIMES Population registration
and identity management
ecosystem
PSP Private Sector
Partnerships (for UNHCR)
PTA Protection transfer
arrangement
QAI Quality assurance initiative
QIP Quick impact project
RBM Results-based
management (for UNHCR)
RCM Refugee Coordination
Model

RRP Refugee Response Plan
RSD Refugee status
determination
SDC Swiss Agency for
Development and Cooperation
SDG Sustainable Development
Goal(s)
SGBV Sexual and
gender-based violence
SIDA Swedish International
Development Cooperation
Agency

UN-Habitat United Nations
Human Settlements
Programme
UNICEF United Nations
Children’s Fund
UNMAS United Nations Mine
Action Service
UNITAR United Nations
Institute for United Nations
Institute for Training and
Research
UNODC United Nations Office
on Drugs and Crime

SSAR Solutions strategy for
Afghan refugees

UNOPS United Nations Office
for Project Services

THW Technisches Hilfswerk
(German Federal Agency for
Technical Relief)

UN‑SWAP UN system-wide
Action Plan

UNAIDS Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNCDF United Nations Capital
Development Fund
UNCT United Nations Country
Team
UNDAF United Nations
Development Assistance
Framework

UNV United Nations Volunteer
UN Women United Nations
Entity for Gender Equality and
the Empowerment of Women
UPR Universal Periodic Review
(by the Human Rights Council)
WASH Water, sanitation and
hygiene
WFP World Food Programme

UNDP United Nations
Development Programme

WHO World Health
Organization

UNDSS United Nations
Department of Safety and
Security

WHS World Hummanitarian
Summit

UNEP United Nations
Environment Programme
UNESCO United Nations
Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization
UNFCCC United Nations
Framework Convention on
Climate Change
UNFPA United Nations
Population Fund

UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017 245

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

ph oto : u n h C r / s . r i C h

Caque
lom
tá, Co
bia

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

CREDITS
UNHCR wishes to acknowledge the contributions of all staff and consultants at Headquarters
and in the field who have participated in the preparation of the narrative, financial and
graphic components of this document.
Concept design: UNHCR
Layout design, production and printing: Printing Section, Production and Support Service,
United Nations Office Geneva (1810260E).
The maps in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion on the part of
UNHCR concerning the legal status of any country or territory or area, of its authorities,
or the delimitation of frontiers or boundaries.
Data in this report are drawn from the most recent statistics available to UNHCR, and from
other United Nations agencies.
All amounts are in US dollars unless otherwise specified.
For any corrigenda found subsequent to printing, please visit the Publications page on
Global Focus website (http:/reporting.unhcr.org).
UNHCR
PO BOX 2500
1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
Tel: 0041 22 739 81 35
Email: HQGARS@unhcr.org
http://reporting.unhcr.org and www.unhcr.org
Twitter@UNHCRgov | Twitter@refugees | Facebook | Instagram
Cover photo:
An elementary school temporarily constructed from wood and plastic sheeting is in disrepair
after strong storms at Bidibidi refugee settlement in Yumbe District, northern Uganda,
2 May 2017.
© UNHCR/Jiro Ose

248 UNHCR GLOBAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------

reporting.unhcr.org
www.unhcr.org

Published by UNHCR
PO Box 2500
1211 Geneva 2
Switzerland
For information and inquiries
please contact:
DRRM
hqfr00@unhcr.org
HQGARS@unhcr.org
Twitter@UNHCRgov | Twitter@refugees | Facebook | Instagram

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

