FAO's Multipartner Programme Support
Mechanism (FMM)
2016 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

FAO's Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism
(FMM)

2016 Annual Report

FOOD AND AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS
Rome, 2017

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

The designations employed and the presentation of material in this information product do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) concerning the legal or development
status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries. The
mention of specific companies or products of manufacturers, whether or not these have been patented, does not imply that these
have been endorsed or recommended by FAO in preference to others of a similar nature that are not mentioned.
The views expressed in this information product are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of FAO.
ISBN 978-92-5-109841-7
© FAO, 2017
FAO encourages the use, reproduction and dissemination of material in this information product. Except where otherwise indicated,
material may be copied, downloaded and printed for private study, research and teaching purposes, or for use in non-commercial
products or services, provided that appropriate acknowledgement of FAO as the source and copyright holder is given and that FAO’s
endorsement of users’ views, products or services is not implied in any way.
All requests for translation and adaptation rights, and for resale and other commercial use rights should be made via
www.fao.org/contact-us/licence-request or addressed to copyright@fao.org.
FAO information products are available on the FAO website (www.fao.org/publications) and can be purchased through publicationssales@fao.org.

This publication has been printed using selected products and processes so as to ensure minimal environmental impact and to promote sustainable forest
management.

Photo cover: FAO/Gustave Ntaraka

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Contents

Acronyms ......................................................................................................................................... vi
Executive summary .......................................................................................................................... ix
1. Introduction .................................................................................................................................. 1
1.1 What is the FMM?................................................................................................................... 1
1.2 FAO results chain framework and 2016 results reporting ...................................................... 1
1.3 FMM projects in 2016: key facts and figures ........................................................................ 1
2 . Contribution to FAO results.......................................................................................................... 3
2.1. Contribute to the eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition (SO1) ................. 3
2.2 Make agriculture more productive and sustainable (SO2) ...................................................... 5
2.3 Reduce rural poverty (SO3) .................................................................................................. 22
2.4 Enable inclusive and efficient agrifood systems (SO4) ........................................................ 28
3. Lessons learned ........................................................................................................................... 33
Annex 1. FAO and FMM results delivery in 2016 against output indicators ................................. 35
Annex 2. Presentation of projects’ outcomes, outputs and activities .............................................. 37
List of available projects related publications, reports and material produced in 2016 ................ 116

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

iv

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Foreword

In September 2015, the world’s leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We now
have fourteen years to achieve the seventeen very ambitious Sustainable Development Goals. The
challenge is immense and FAO is fully engaged in tackling it.
The FAO Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism (FMM) is an important instrument supporting the
Organization and its Member States towards this end. The flexibility of pooled and unearmarked funding
makes it possible for FAO to allocate funds where they are most needed to make progress towards a world
with zero hunger and poverty, where natural resources are used sustainably.
In 2016, the seventeen projects supported by the FMM delivered substantial results geared towards the
achievements of the SDGs and FAO’s Strategic Objectives. In addition, beyond their technical impact and
tangible results in countries, FMM projects delivered other important results. In 2016, FMM projects
leveraged an additional USD 15 million for scale-up or complementary projects, fully playing its catalytic
role. New strategic partnerships were established, and projects stimulated cross-sectoral work, fostering
synergies and new thinking, both within and outside FAO.
This annual report details results achieved, progress made and lessons-learned in 2016. We are confident
that results achieved in countries and the demonstrated benefits of unearmarked funding described will
continue to generate enthusiasm for this type of instrument.
This year, we are happy to welcome Switzerland as a new resource partner for the FMM. We are also
grateful to the Kingdoms of Belgium, the Netherlands and Sweden which have renewed their commitment
with generous contributions for 2016–2017 allowing the implementation of 17 new projects.
We look forward to discussing with them ways to strengthen the mechanism so that it can best support
FAO strategic priorities highlighted in the 2018-2021 Mid-Term Plan.

Daniel Gustafson
Deputy Director-General (Programmes)
and Officer-in-Charge, Technical Cooperation Department

v

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Acronyms
3ADI
ACE
AfDB
AFRACA
AGP
AIDMR
ANPEJ
APAD
ARARI
ASIES
BGI
CATIE
CBD
CIMMYT
CNOP
COAG
COFERSA
COPs
CSA
CSOs
DFID
DRE
DRYE
EAC
ESS
FAO
FFEM
FFS
FIES
FLR
FLW
FRLM
FMM
GCF
GEF
GEFPAS-FPAM
GIZ
GSVC
GWP
ICA
IFAD
IFPRI
IFWC
ILC

African Agribusiness and Agri-industries Development Initiative
Agricultural Commodity Exchange for Africa
African Development Bank
African Rural and Agricultural Credit Association
Plant Production and Protection Division
Association Inter-zone pour le Développement en Milieu rural
Agence Nationale Pour l’Emploi des Jeunes
Association pour la Promotion de l’Agriculture Durable
Amhara Region Agricultural Research Institute
Asociación de investigación y studios sociales
Blue Growth Initiative
Centro Agronómico Tropical de Investigación y Enseñanza
Convention on Biological Diversity
International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center
Coordination Nationale des Organisations Paysannes
FAO Committee on Agriculture
Convergence des Femmes Rurales pour la Souveraineté Alimentaire
conference of the parties
climate-smart agriculture
civil society organizations
Department for International Development of the United Kingdom
decent rural employment
decent rural youth employment
East African Community
Statistics Division, FAO
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
French Fund for the Global Environment
farmers field schools
food insecurity experience scale
forest and landscape restoration
food loss and waste
Forest and Landscape Restoration Mechanism
FAO Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism
Green Climate Fund
Global Environment Facility
Global Environment Facility Pacific Alliance for Sustainability-Forestry and Protected Area
Management
German Cooperation Agency
gender sensitive value chain
Gallup World Poll
integrated country approach
International Fund for Agricultural Development
International Food Policy Research Institute
International Food Waste Coalition
International Land Coalition

vi

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

ILM
ILMFNS
INDC
ITC
IUCN
LEG
LoA
LSMS
MAAIF
M&E
MIC TAF
MIJA
MINAGRI
MoAIWD
MONUSCO
MOSAICC
MoU
MTP
NAMAs
NAPs
NDC
NEPAD
NGOs
ONER
PAESC
PIR
PO
PWB
RAF
REF
RWEE
RuSACCOs
SBSTA
SDGs
SEDUCA
SFA
SIDS
SME
SO
SYNTAP
TAF
TARI
TCI
TCP
ToT
UBOS
UNDP

integrated landscape management
Integrated Landscape Management to Boost Food and Nutrition Security
intended nationally determined contributions
International Trade Centre
International Union for Conservation of Nature
Least Developed Countries Expert Group
letter of agreement
Living Standard Measurement Study
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries of Uganda
monitoring and evaluation
Middle Income Country Technical Assistance Fund
Modèle d’Insertion des Jeunes dans l’Agriculture
Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources of Rwanda
Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Water Development of Malawi
Mission de l’Organisation des Nations Unies pour la Stabilisation en RD Congo
Modelling System for Agricultural Impacts of Climate Change
memorandum of understanding
medium term plan
nationally appropriate mitigation actions
national adaptation plans
nationally determined contribution
New Partnerships for Africa’s Development
non-governmental organizations
Observatoire National pour l’Emploi Rural
Programme d’Appui à l’Agriculture Sensible aux Risques Climatiques
Programme Implementation Report
producers’ organizations
programme of work and budget
FAO Regional Bureau for Africa
MERCOSUR Specialized Meeting on Family Farming
United Nations Joint Programme on rural women’s economic empowerment
Local Rural Saving and Credit Cooperatives
Subsidiary Body for Scientific and Technological Advice
Sustainable Development Goals
Ministry of Agriculture Service for Agricultural Training and Agribusiness Development of
Honduras
FAO’s Vision and Approach on Sustainable Food and Agriculture
small island and developing state
small and medium-sized enterprise
strategic objective
Syndicat National des travailleurs de l'Agro-Pastoral
Technical Assistance Facility
Tigray Agricultural Research Institute
Investment Centre Division (FAO)
Technical Cooperation Programme (FAO)
training of trainers
Ugandan Bureau of Statistics
United Nations Development Programme

vii

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

UNEP
UNFCCC
UNICEF
UNIDO
UN-REDD+
VC
VGGT
VGSSF
VoH
WFO
WFP
WRI

United Nations Environment Programme
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
United Nations Children’s Fund
United Nations Industrial Development Organization
United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and
Forest Degradation in Developing Countries
value chain
Voluntary Guidelines for Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries and Forests
Voluntary Guidelines for Securing Sustainable Small-Scale Fisheries
Voices of the Hungry
World Farmer Organization
World Food Programme
World Resources Institute

viii

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Executive summary
In 2016, the FAO Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism (FMM) fully fulfilled its function of
supporting FAO Strategic Framework (2010-2019), the Medium-Term Plan (MTP) and the 2016-2017
Programme of Work and Budget (PWB). Most of the 17 projects supported by the FMM achieved relevant
results at country level, and for some of them at regional and global levels.
Projects contributed to FAO’s work towards zero hunger (FAO Strategic Objective [SO] 1), sustainable food
and agriculture (SO2), rural poverty reduction (SO3), and efficient and inclusive food systems (SO4) and
were related to ten Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).1
The FMM contributed to FAO’s successful results delivery in 2016.2 The FMM supported 16 outputs (out of
39 outputs for FAO’s first four SOs) and contributed the Organization’s successful achievement of most of
the targets for these outputs in 2016. In addition to delivering tangible results in countries, FMM projects
brought other important benefits in terms of innovation, catalytic effects and the stimulation of crosssectoral work.
RESULTS ACHIEVED IN 2016
Stimulating innovation in food security measurement to monitor SDG 2
The year 2016 was marked by a major milestone for the project Voices of the Hungry (VoH) with the official
endorsement by the UN General Assembly, in September 2016, of indicators based on the Food Insecurity
Experience Scale (FIES) to measure progress towards SDG 2, Target 2.1.3 The FIES is an innovative global
standard for measuring the severity of food insecurity and is instrumental to help countries measure
progress in reducing hunger and establish relevant policies and programmes.
In addition, the first FIES-based estimates of the 2014 and 2015 prevalence of moderate and severe food
insecurity were produced for 147 countries and informed the first UN Secretary General’s report on the
Sustainable Development Goals and the FAO 2016 Regional Panorama reports.
Implementing sustainability in food and agriculture
The piloting of FAO’s Vision and Approach on Sustainable Food and Agriculture (SFA) achieved important
results. In Rwanda, a high-level policy dialogue was initiated to identify key areas of work where the SFA
approach can be used to implement the 2030 Agenda in food and agriculture. In Morocco, a cross-sector
committee on SFA has been established. It will build its work on a study of the country’s sustainability issues
recently finalized.
Piloting and fostering the uptake of innovative agricultural practices
Several projects successfully piloted innovative practices leading to enhanced food security, resource use
efficiency and resilience to climate change and have a strong potential to scale up. They were implemented
No Poverty (SGD 1), Zero Hunger (SDG 2), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Decent Work and Economic Growth (SGD 8), Reduced
Inequalities (SGD10), Responsible Consumption and Production (SDG 12), Climate Action (SDG 13), Life Below Water (SDG 14), Life
on Land (SGD 15), Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17)
2 See Mid-Term Review Synthesis report, FAO, April 2016. The report states that at the end of 2016, 86% of the 50 Output targets
for the year were fully achieved; 14% were partially achieved.
3 “By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including infants,
to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round”.
1

ix

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

in: Burundi (integrated agricultural practices), Guatemala and Honduras (agroforestry), Kiribati, the
Philippines and Saint Lucia (seaweed sector). The uptake of new practices to enhance ecosystems services
was facilitated in the seaweed, mariculture and forest conservation sectors in Kenya. In Burkina Faso and
Mali, the capacities of 450 farmers and trainers were developed to stimulate the strengthening of small
scale agroecology farming systems.
Advancing adaptation to climate change
In 2016, FAO contributed substantially to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(UNFCCC) processes through technical and policy inputs to technical bodies and the Conference of the
Parties (COP22) promoting the role of agriculture in adaptation to climate change and helping to keep
agriculture at the forefront of climate change discussions.
The FMM also helped provide policy advice at country level on adaptation. In Uganda, an important
milestone was reached with the technical approval of the Agriculture National Adaptation Plan by the
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF). In Malawi, an inter-ministerial technical
working group was set up to work on the agricultural component of national adaptation processes.
Strengthening rural actors
In the Niger, the governance of eight farmers federations and their confederation, representing
176 000 farmers, has been strengthened as well as their capacity to conduct economic activities. Stronger
farmers’ federations are a necessary condition for rural intensification. The management of an existing
guarantee fund which facilitates lending to farmers, essential to scale up agricultural activities, was also
improved.
In 2016, civil society and grass roots organizations had their capacity strengthened to contribute effectively
to processes on the implementation of the Voluntary Guidelines on Responsible Governance of Tenure of
Land, Fisheries and Forests (VGGT) in Colombia, Guatemala, Liberia, Mongolia, Nepal, the Philippines,
Senegal, Sierra Leone and South Africa. Secured tenure for farmers and small holders contributes to the
eradication of hunger pursued by SDG 2 and FAO SO1.
In Burkina Faso, a national platform of agroecology trainers was established, opening the way for
knowledge sharing and the strengthening of member organizations and of trainers’ capacities.
Stimulating forest and land restoration
The implementation of work plans for large Forest and Land Restoration (FLR) programmes has started in
Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru and Rwanda. Initial results include the finalization of a first draft of the National
Programme for the recuperation of degraded land in Peru, and the setup of nine Farmers Field Schools (FFS)
for sustainable land management and agroforestry practices in Rwanda. Several regional initiatives on FLR
were enhanced thanks to FAO technical support.
Promoting Decent Rural Employment (DRE)
To fight rural poverty and the expanding phenomena of distress migration, FAO assists countries in creating
decent rural employment opportunities in rural areas. Through the FMM, support was provided to three
countries and led to the effective inclusion of rural dimensions in the (recently launched) National Decent
Work Policy in Guatemala and the development of a National Youth in Agriculture Strategy in Uganda. In

x

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Senegal, the bases have been set up for the establishment of a National Observatory of Rural Employment
(ONER). In all three countries, the project operated as a policy and innovation lab for youth-friendly agrifood systems.
Empowering communities and women to reduce rural poverty
In 2016, the Dimitra project contributed through the Dimitra Clubs4to the socio-economic empowerment
of rural women, men and youth in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Mali, the Niger
and Senegal. The clubs have enhanced the capacities of the most marginalised people in terms of
organizational capacities and access to information (radio and ICTs). They have improved the lives and
livelihoods of about 50,000 club members and their communities through social mobilization, for an
estimated total of 1 million people benefitting from the clubs’ externalities.
Enabling efficient agrifood systems
In 2016, FAO Save Food initiative remained a central point for global information on Food Loss and Waste
(FLW) reduction and continued to stimulate worldwide initiatives, collaborative actions and knowledge
sharing. The Save Food network has almost doubled in size with about 1,000 members.
Empowering women for inclusive and efficient value chains
Progress has been made to unlock the potential of women along selected value chains. Around 3,200
people from women associations, small-scale enterprises and cooperatives have developed new capacities
in business management and agricultural practices for the development of gender sensitive and efficient
value chains in Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Rwanda and Tunisia. In these
countries, there is now a better awareness of the important role women play in improving the value chain
efficiency.
LEVERAGING RESOURCES
In 2016, FMM projects generated more than USD 15 million for complementary or scale-up projects and in
several instances, the FMM fully played its seed funding role.5
About USD 4.5 million were granted by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation towards work on food
insecurity measurement. In the Niger, the government will dedicate USD 2 million to implement the Dimitra
Approach in its new programme on climate smart agriculture.6 In Senegal, the ministry of Youth committed
USD 500 000 for the establishment of four platforms on youth integration in agriculture. In Ethiopia, the
government granted USD 600 000 for women empowerment along value chains in the Integrated Agro
Industrial Park of the Oromia Region.
In Cabo Verde, FAO was able through technical support and policy advice, to build the base, provide the
institutional anchorage and mobilize the funding (USD 2.89 million) for a wider programme on the Blue
Economy to be implemented with international partners.

The FAO Dimitra Clubs are groups of women, men and young people – mixed or not – who decide to organize themselves so as
to work together to bring about changes in their communities. They meet regularly to discuss the challenges they face in their daily
lives, make decisions and take action to resolve their problems.
5 This calculation does not include the Restoration Initiative, which is the result of several years of work. See section 3.1.2.
6 Programme d’appui à l’agriculture sensible aux risques climatiques (PASEC).
4

xi

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Forest and Landscape Restoration activities will benefit from USD 5.3 million for mitigation and adaptation
activities in six Africa countries, the Pacific Islands and the Mediterranean, thanks to the German Ministry
of Environment. In addition, one of the main results of the project and the wider FLR team is the setup of
the Restoration Initiative funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) for USD 54 million which will be
implemented jointly by FAO and two partners in 10 countries.
Results achieved by several projects have led to an increasing number of requests for support by countries
or partners, in particular in the fields of food insecurity measurement, agriculture integration into
adaptation plans to climate change, and for the Dimitra approach.
STIMULATING CROSS-SECTORAL WORK
In 2016, several FMM supported projects stimulated cross-sectoral work both within and outside the
Organization, stimulating synergies and leading to more integrated visions. For example, there is a
strengthened collaboration between the nutrition division and the production and food systems division in
FAO, leading to new thinking on the contribution of agroecology and biodiversity to nutrition. The
implementation of the FAO SFA vision has built cross sectors by nature and has involved many different
FAO divisions and ministries at field level. The Dimitra Clubs approach is increasingly implemented in
different sectors (nutrition, resilience, social protection, peace building, etc) at the request of partners.
In addition, the cross-sectoral work conducted by some FMM projects has stimulated the joint formulation
of new project proposals by two or more strategic programmes for 2017.
FMM FUNCTIONS: In 2016, the FMM fully played its role of promoting capacity development, policy
advice and partnerships, as per its governance document.
Capacity development: Capacity building activities were implemented in more than 40 countries. A wide
range of stakeholders developed their skills in areas such as agroecology, agroforestry, aquaculture,
seaweed farming, food security monitoring, financial services, land tenures issues, etc.
New training packages are available, in particular on gender-sensitive value chain development, Decent
Rural Employment (e-learning) and financial literacy for smallholder farmers (Malawi).
Several guidance documents were produced in particular on adaptation to climate change, gendersensitive value-chains, tenure issues for civil society, and mainstreaming decent rural employment in the
strategic planning of agricultural development.
Policy advice: In 2016, ten projects had a policy advice component with concrete or initial results achieved
in Burkina Faso, Cabo Verde, Ethiopia, Kenya, Morocco, Rwanda, Senegal and Uganda (see Results
section – page 4).
Partnerships: In 2016, all projects strengthened the existing partnerships and also built new ones often
with a view to scale-up existing activities and benefit from complementary expertise. Highlights include
the strengthening of collaboration with the UNFCCC and the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) on climate change and adaptation, and the strengthening of collaboration with the World Bank
and the African Development Bank on the Blue growth and the African package for Climate Resilient Blue
MAIN
LESSONS
LEARNED with farmers’ organizations developed in Mali and Burkina Faso are significant
Economies.
Partnerships
in terms of putting into practice the FAO policy on partnerships with civil society organizations.

xii

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Several important lessons were learned in 2016. Lessons learned on projects’ implementation highlighted
the importance of partnerships, the need to build national capacities while conducting policy work, and the
fruitful synergy between policy and field work. The successes achieved by several projects has led to an
increasing number of requests for support requiring project teams to develop capacity development
strategies and look for additional resources to meet the demand.
Lessons learned on the FMM modalities highlighted the fact that projects would have generally benefited
from longer implementation periods and funding cycles.
In 2016, efforts were made to better include country offices from the project proposal development to the
reporting phases, resulting in particular with better results reporting in the corporate system for FMM
projects.

xiii

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

1.

Introduction

1.1 What is the FMM?
The FAO Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism (FMM) was established in 2010 as a new funding
mechanism for partners willing to contribute to FAO’s work through unearmarked or lightly earmarked
funds. The FMM directly supports FAO’s Strategic Framework (2010-2019) and the realization of the
organization’s Programme of Work and budget, and focus on results.
As per its governance document, the FMM has also a number of important roles such as the promotion of
capacity development, policy advice and partnerships and the fostering of catalytic effects.
Total contributions to the FMM for the period 2014-2017 amount to approximately USD 47 million and
came from the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and the Kingdom of Sweden. At the
end of 2016, the Swiss Confederation joined the FMM as a new resource partner.
1.2 FAO results chain framework and 2016 results reporting
Since 2014, all FAO project results are monitored and reported as per corporate monitoring and
reporting processes. The FAO Results Framework guides the planning and monitoring of the Organization’s
work. At the core of the framework are the indicators that measure progress at each level of the results
chain: Outputs, Outcomes and SOs.7 The framework provides the basis for assessing and reporting how
FAO’s actions contribute to changes at national, regional and global levels.
Outputs are FAO’s contribution in terms of processes, products and services to the Outcomes in the results
chain. They represent the results for which FAO is directly accountable at the national, regional and global
levels through the tangible delivery of FAO’s interventions.
Outcomes reflect changes in the country-level and/or global enabling environment needed to foster the
achievement of the higher level SOs. They relate to those issues at country or international level that can
be addressed with contributions (Outputs) from FAO.
As all projects funded through assessed or voluntary contributions, FMM projects results were reported
under the Output(s) to which they contribute in FAO’s Corporate Monitoring System.
1.3 FMM projects in 2016: key facts and figures
In 2016, the FMM supported 17 projects. This report does not cover the new projects selected during the
last quarter of 2016, whose implementation started in late 2016 or early 2017.
In this report, the results of the project on resource use efficiency for sustainable agricultural intensification
are presented separately for Burundi and the Niger as objectives pursued and activities implemented are
different in each country.

For a complete list of Outputs, Outputs indicators and targets, consult Annex II of the Mid-Term Review Synthesis Report, 2016.
For a complete list of Outcomes, Outcomes indicators and targets, consult Web Annex 5. For the FAO Results Chain, consult:
Information Note on FAO Results Chain and Accountability for Delivery.
7

1

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

The FMM projects were fully aligned with FAO’s Strategic Framework.
Projects were implemented in 42 countries. While most countries benefited from one or two projects,
Ethiopia, Guatemala, Kenya and the Philippines benefited from the implementation of four projects.
List of FMM projects implemented in 2016 and FAO outcomes to which projects contribute
Project start date
Strategic objective 1 - Contribute to the eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition
FAO Outcome 1.1: Policies, investment plans, programmes and legal frameworks with a stronger focus
on food security and nutrition Outcomes
Increase the use of VGGT among Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) and grassroots
July 2014
organizations
FAO Outcome 1.3: Decision-making based on evidence and high quality, timely and comprehensive food
security and nutrition analysis
The Voices of the Hungry
December 2013
Strategic objective 2 - Make agriculture more productive and sustainable
FAO Outcome 2.1 Adoption of practices that increase and improve agricultural sector production in a
sustainable manner
Scaling up CSA
December 2014
An integrated approach for sustainable agricultural intensification through resource
July 2014
use efficiency – Burundi and the Niger components
Climate-smart Agroforestry Systems for Honduras and Guatemala Dry Corridor
December 2014
Blue Growth Initiative in Support of Food Nutrition Security, Poverty Alleviation and
July 2014
Healthy Oceans
Restoration of Degraded Lands
April 2015
Enhancing biodiversity and nutrition through agroecology in Mali and Burkina
September 2015
Integrated landscape management to boost food and nutrition security in Fiji and
October 2015
Samoa
FAO Outcome 2.2Strengthened governance – policies, laws, framework and institutions – for the
transition to sustainable agricultural production systems
Sustainable Food and Agriculture (SFA)
November 2014
National Adaptation Plans - CSA
August 2014
Strategic objective 3 - Reduce rural poverty
FAO Outcome 3.1 Enhanced access to productive resources, services, organizations and markets
Rural poverty reduction through job creation in small ruminant value chains in
July 2013
Ethiopian highlands
Reduce rural poverty through information, participatory communication and social
September 2014
mobilization for rural women, men and youth – Dimitra
FAO Outcome 3.2 Enhanced decent employment opportunities
ICA for Decent Rural Youth Employment
June 2015
Strategic objective 4 - Enable more inclusive and efficient agricultural and food systems
FAO Outcome 4.2 Development of more inclusive and efficient agro-industry and agrifood chains
Global Initiative on Food Loss and Waste Reduction – SAVEFOOD
August 2013
Enable women to benefit more equally from agrifood value chains
February 20158
FAO Outcome 4.3 Supportive policies, financial instruments and investments to improve inclusiveness and efficiency
of agrifood systems

Accelerated agribusiness and agro-industry investment technical assistance initiative

8

August 2013

Effective start in September 2015.

2

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

2.

Contribution to FAO results

In 2016, FMM projects contributed to four FAO Strategic Objectives: Contribute to hunger
eradication (SO1); Make agriculture more productive and sustainable (SO2); Reduce rural poverty (SO3) and
Enable inclusive and efficient agrifood systems (SO4). FMM projects addressed ten of the 17 SDGs.9
FMM projects contributed to FAO’s 2016 results and to the fact that FAO reached many of its output targets
in 2016.10At the end of 2016, 86 percent of the FAO 50 Output targets for the year were fully achieved,
while 14 percent were partially achieved. Achievement against 2017 targets is well advanced with 64
percent of indicators showing at least 50 percent achievements against 2017 targets.11
The FMM supported 16 outputs (out of 39 of FAO’s first four SOs) in 2016 and contributed to the results of
14 of them (see Annex 1 for detailed information on the FMM contribution to FAO Outputs).
This chapter presents the results achieved by each project in 2016. Additional and detailed information on
project objectives, activities implemented in 2015 and 2016 and planned for 2017 is available in the
annexes.

2.1. Contribute to the eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition (SO1)
FAO is committed to the eradication of hunger by 2030as per SDG2.
In 2016, the FMM supported two projects which directly contributed to FAO’s work with governments and
development actors to create a more enabling policy and environment for food and nutrition security. The
first project contributes to inclusive governance and coordination mechanisms necessary for the
eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition (outcome1.2). The second project, Voices of the
Hungry, contributes to the provision of evidence and high quality and timely food security analysis for
decision-making (outcome 1.3).
Strengthening civil society and grassroots organizations for discussions on the responsible governance of
tenure
The project aims at increasing the capacities of civil society and grassroots organizations to participate in
policy dialogues on the governance of tenure in their countries. It is part of the FAO Umbrella programme
on the implementation of the Voluntary Guidelines on Responsible Governance of Tenure of Land, Fisheries
and Forests in the context of National Food Security (VGGT).12
During the first phase (2015), the project developed an innovative training approach to strengthen the
capacities of CSOs and grass root organizations to participate and contribute meaningfully in dialogue
spaces. Building on the results achieved and the numerous requests from CSOs and NGOs to access the
training material, the project was scaled up and the training was provided to a larger number of countries
and network of users.

End poverty (SGD 1), Zero Hunger (SDG 2), Gender Equality (SDG 5), decent work and economic growth (SGD 8), reduced
equalities (SGD10), Responsible consumption and production (SDG 12), Climate Action (SDG 13), Life Below Water (SDG 14), Life
on lands (SGD 15), Partnerships for the Goals (17).
10 See Mid-Term Review Synthesis report, FAO, April 2016.
11 See (Table 1 and Annex 2) of the Mid-Term Review Synthesis report, FAO, April 2016.
12 The contribution of FMM (2014-2016) to the overall four-year VGGT implementation programme is approximately 5%.
9

3

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

In 2016, in Colombia, Liberia, Mongolia, the Philippines, Senegal and Sierra Leone, the capacities of civil
society and grassroots organizations have been strengthened. In each of these countries, the numbers of
trainees range between 20 and 250 people and up to 1,500 have been sensitized on the VGGT and ways to
contribute (Output 1.2.1).13 Participants in the sensitization workshops were either CSO members or a
blended audience of CSO members and government staff.
Building on the capacity development efforts already conducted in 2015, an additional 155 members of
CSOs have had their capacities strengthened in Nepal, about 251 people in Guatemala with a special focus
on the role of women, and 90 people in South Africa.
The capacity strengthening already had a direct impact on ongoing policy processes in two countries. In
Mongolia, the draft pastoral land law was discussed and analyzed in the light of the VGGT during a Training
of Trainers (ToT) providing inputs for its finalization and implementation. In Nepal, Members of Parliament
involved in a project’s ToT agreed to consider the facts and suggestions provided during the training in the
amendment process of the National Park and Conservation Act.
The learning framework “Putting the VGGT into practice: A learning guide for civil society” is now available.
To achieve a critical mass of agents of change required for the successful implementation of the VGGT, the
learning framework and its approach have been widely disseminated and tailored to specific audiences or
the needs of partners planning to use it.
Partnerships: In 2016, new partnerships have been established with the World Farmers Organization
(WFO), Action Aid, the International Land Coalition (ILC), the MERCOSUR’S Specialised Meeting on Family
Farming (REAF) and national partners in Colombia, Liberia, Mongolia, the Philippines and Sierra Leone.
One of the most important achievements in terms of partnership is the strengthening of networks
between national partners and other organizations. Sierra Leone and Liberia have been able (via exchange
visits) to share experiences through participation in a training of trainers’ course. Regional workshops
allowed CSOs to strengthen their networks and coordination on tenure issues, promote a shared
understanding of the regional context, and identify common issues and priorities.

An innovative metrics for food insecurity severity
Monitoring food insecurity in a timely, consistent and appropriate way worldwide is crucial to establish
baselines and targets for hunger, and assess the progress in reducing hunger. Since 2013, the project Voices
of the Hungry has made major progress in developing the Food Insecurity Experience Scale (FIES), an
innovative global standard for measuring the severity of food insecurity.14

New capacities are: (i) knowledge of the VGGT; (ii) use of the VGGT to analyze systematically cases where governance of tenure
can be improved; (iii) to plan activities to support the VGGT implementation; (iv) to network on governance of tenure issues; and
(v) to strengthen the participation of CSOs in the multistakeholders platforms which have been established under parallel FAO
projects.
14 The FMM project is part of an umbrella project (PGM/MUL/2013-2018/VOH) supported also by the UK (DFID) and FAO.
13

4

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

2016 was marked by a major milestone with the official endorsement by the UN General Assembly, in
September 2016, of the SDGs and the indicators based on the FIES to measure progress towards the 2030
Agenda for SDG 2, Target 2.1.15
In addition, the first FIES-based estimates for the 2014 and 2015 prevalence of moderate and severe food
insecurity were produced for 147 countries and informed the first UN Secretary General’s report on
Sustainable Development Goals and the FAO 2016 Regional Panorama reports.16
FAO is engaged in an important capacity development effort on the use of the FIES and built the capacities
of professionals from 30 national or sub regional organizations in 2016(see Annex 2 for more details). There
are a growing number of requests for support from countries to monitor SDG 2 and integrate the FIES
module into national surveys. FAO is the custodian agency for 21 SGDs indicators, among which two
indicators for SDG 2.1. (Prevalence of undernourishment and the prevalence of moderate or severe food
insecurity in the population, based on the FIES).17
The year 2016 was also marked by a rapid increase in collaboration with key development partners and
member countries, in particular the World Bank and the World Food Programme (WFP) for integration in
several country level surveys.18 The German Cooperation Agency (GIZ) used the FIES to monitor projects in
several African and Asian countries. The World Bank Global Agriculture Food Security Programme and the
USAID Feed the Future Initiative, plan to use FIES in their monitoring and evaluation frameworks.
Catalytic effects: On the basis of results achieved by the project, an additional USD 4.5 million were
granted from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation for technical support and data collection on food
security through the Gallup World Poll.

2.2 Make agriculture more productive and sustainable (SO2)
At the core of the 2030 Agenda, FAO strategic objective 2 calls on global efforts to move towards a
sustainable agriculture growth.19 This requires integration and synergies between agricultural sectors
(crops, livestock, forestry, fisheries, and aquaculture) and the further integration of social, economic and
environmental issues.
In 2016, FMM projects achieved relevant results in these fields and contributed to four FAO Outcomes: the
adoption of practices that increase and improve agricultural sector production in a sustainable manner
(Outcome 2.1), the strengthening of governance for the transition to sustainable agricultural sector

“By 2030, end hunger and ensure access by all people, in particular the poor and people in vulnerable situations, including
infants, to safe, nutritious and sufficient food all year round”.
16 Data was collected through a contractual agreement with Gallup World Poll (GWP).
17 As such, FAO has the responsibility to collect the values of indicator as compiled by countries, validate and harmonize them to
ensure cross-country comparability, compile regional and global aggregates and report regional and global estimates to the UN
Statistical Division to inform the UN Secretary General reports on the SDGs.
18 The FIES survey module was integrated in national surveys in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador Kenya,
Malawi, Pakistan, St. Lucia, Seychelles, and Swaziland.
19 Six out of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals concentrate on sustainable agriculture. SDG 2 on hunger, nutrition and
sustainable agriculture, SDG 6 on water use efficiency, SDG 12 on sustainable production and consumption, SDG 13 on combating
climate change, SDG 14 on conserving marine resources, and SDG 15 on terrestrial ecosystems, land restoration and biodiversity.
15

5

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

production systems (Outcome 2.2), the adoption of international instruments or governance mechanisms
(outcome 2.3) for sustainable agricultural systems and evidence-based decision-making (outcome 2.4).
Establishment of policy dialogues on Sustainable Food and Agriculture
To achieve Strategic Objective 2, FAO has developed a common vision and integrated approach to
sustainability. The vision provides a set of principles to address sustainability, valid across all agricultural
sectors and taking into account social, economic and environmental considerations. SO2provides an entry
point for more coordinated and effective actions in support of the 2030 Agenda at country level.
In 2015, FAO started to pilot the implementation of its vision on “Sustainable Food and Agriculture” (SFA)
in three countries, namely Bangladesh, Morocco and Rwanda with FMM support (Outputs 2.1.1, 2.1.2,
2.2.1, 2.2.2) and achieved several results in 2016.
In Bangladesh, FAO developed an action plan to be submitted to the government to implement the SFA
vision. It proposes to support policy dialogues on key sustainability issues identified in the preliminary
assessment phase and to look at ways to implement sustainable and climate smart food and agriculture in
the field. The action plan is aligned with the country’s SDG implementation planning process.
In Morocco, a cross-sectoral platform was established to strengthen the coordination between the Ministry
in charge of forest and natural resources, the Agriculture Ministry and the Planning administration. The
work will be stimulated by the assessment of the country’s key cross-sectoral sustainability issues which
was finalised and the analysis of sectoral policies initiated to understand areas for synergies and trade-offs.
In the Souss Massa region, a multi-stakeholder process was launched to better understand how to address
sustainability issues.
In Rwanda, following the establishment of a cross-sectoral policy platform on sustainable agriculture and
natural resources set up during 2015, a high-level policy dialogue has been initiated in 2016 to identify key
areas where the SFA approach can be used to implement Agenda 2030 in food and agriculture.20 This is part
of a wider reflection on linking the piloting of SFA in Rwanda to key strategies such as the Green growth
and Climate Resilience Strategy. In parallel, the set of SFA principles are being operationalized on the
ground. The district of Rulindo started to pilot a new approach to accelerate sustainable production
intensification and value chain development and to integrate work on forest and landscape restoration,
sustainable crop intensification, integrated crop-livestock systems, agro-forestry and nutrition-sensitive
agriculture among others topics.
The SFA benefits from large support amongst FAO members as testified in the endorsement of its five
principles from member countries at the meeting of the FAO Committee on Agriculture 13 (COAG). FAO is
receiving requests for support to implement the approach. Based on the lessons learned from the pilot
phase, the SFA framework could be scaled up as a systematic approach to sustainability in a large number
of countries.

20

Co-chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry in charge of natural resources.

6

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Integrating agriculture in National Adaptation Plans
Through this project, FAO provides technical and policy support and help develop capacities to ensure that
agriculture is fully included as part of the process on adaptation to climate change at national level, but also
in global climate change negotiations.
Progress in Malawi and Uganda on national adaptation processes
In Malawi and Uganda, the national policy dialogues established last year were further strengthened to
develop the agriculture sector contribution to adaptation (Output 2.2.2).
In Uganda, an important milestone was reached with the technical approval of the country’s Agriculture
National Adaptation Plan by the MAAIF and validation by relevant stakeholders. The document is ready for
final validation and approval process.
In Malawi, an interdisciplinary technical working group on the agricultural component of national
adaptation processes was set up bringing together representatives from all relevant Ministries. In addition,
the country now has a better capacity to analyze the agricultural sector’s vulnerabilities to climate change;
this is thanks to the training of technical experts from the Met office, Ministry of Agriculture and the
University of Lilongwe in crop and climate sciences and IT, who are helping policy makers to make strategic
long-term climate change adaptation planning.21
Contributing to global level negotiations and technical work
In 2016, FAO continued to contribute substantially to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change (UNFCCC) processes through technical and policy inputs, including to the Subsidiary Body for
Scientific and Technological Advice (SBSTA), the Conference of the Parties (COP) 22, the National
Adaptation Plan (NAP) Expo22, and LEG (Least Developed Country Expert group) meetings. FAO advocates
in particular, for the recognition of agriculture’s role in the adaptation to climate change and the
formulation and implementation of National Adaptation Plans as an instrument to implement Nationally
Determined Contributions.23
Progress has been made on the Supplementary Guidelines for Addressing Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries in National Adaptation Plans (“NAP-Ag Supplement”) with finalization planned for mid-2017. The
Supplementary Guidelines for addressing Fisheries and Aquaculture in National Adaptation Plans (NAP-Fish
Supplement) were finalized. This guidance provides a reference to all countries committed to develop NAPs
and support the agricultural sectors.
The NAP-Ag Platform for Country Exchange was launched to serve as the main knowledge and exchange
hub related to the integration of agriculture in NAPs.
The project contributed to numerous FAO knowledge products and policy guidelines produced in 2016, in
particular the “State of Food and Agriculture: Climate change, agriculture and food security”, the “Climate
The activity is in collaboration with another FMM project - FMM/GLO/112/MUL.
The 2016 NAP Expo included keynotes on latest science and approaches on climate change adaptation, presentations from
developing and developed countries and relevant experts on experiences, best practices and lessons learned, and information from
relevant bodies, organizations and agencies on support for the formulation and implementation of NAPs.
23 NAPs are a process formally established at COP 15. NAPs objectives are: (i) to reduce vulnerability to the impacts of climate
change by building adaptive capacity and resilience; and (ii) to facilitate the integration of climate change adaptation in a coherent
manner.
21
22

7

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

change and food security: risks and responses” paper presented at SBSTA 44, and the second edition of the
Climate-Smart Agriculture Sourcebook, to be launched.
Country-level technical support
In 2016, the project contributed to strengthen national capacities regarding the integration of agriculture
into NAP processes in eight countries (Nepal, Kenya, the Philippines, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay, Viet Nam
and Zambia). Further to the Paris Agreement and the COP 22, an increasing number of countries have
approached FAO for support for the formulation and implementation of NDC, NAPs and Nationally
Appropriate Mitigation Actions (NAMAs) and the formulation of funding proposals to be considered by the
Green Climate Fund.
In this regard, FAO has established a strong relationship with the Green Climate Fund, and a joint working
session during the NAP-Expo 2016 for Advancing National Adaptation Plans (post-Paris) was organized,
contributing to increase outreach to countries on the Green Climate Fund (GCF) NAP readiness window.24
Catalytic effects: One significant achievement of the project has been the leveraging of the Integrating
Agriculture in National Adaptation Plans (NAP-Ag) programme, a joint global trust fund Programme
between FAO and UNDP, currently supporting a total of 11 partner countries in Africa, Asia and Latin
America with the formulation and implementation of their national adaptation plans.

Piloting integrated agricultural practices at landscape level in Burundi (activities ended in July 2016)
Between July 2014 and April 2016, FAO successfully piloted an innovative agricultural approach in the Ngozi
and Mwaro provinces of Burundi, which consisted in introducing and integrating multiple techniques from
different agricultural sectors for efficient production at landscape level (Output 2.1.1).25 The project opens
the door for up-scaling the practices in similar agronomic settings.
Through FFS, diverse techniques were simultaneously introduced in the same location:
 1 500 hectares of watersheds were stabilized through integrated land management (agroforestry,
contour planting, soil protection techniques, interplanting of forage grasses, bamboos and fruit trees
with field crops);
 Small animal and fish production has been strengthened to enrich the protein source, and integrated
with crop production;
 Agriculture production was diversified and ameliorated (through the selection of improved seeds, the
introduction of mushroom production, etc.) to increase the access to foods rich in vitamins and
micronutrients.
The integration of these techniques led to an improvement of the nutrition, food security and livelihoods
of about 1 500 farmers and their families, a better management of natural resources and protection of the
environment.

The GCF provide financial support to developing countries for the formulation of national adaptation plans (NAPs) and/or
other national adaptation planning processes through its Readiness and Preparatory Support Program
25 See “In focus - Innovation: Integrating Techniques from Various Agricultural Sectors”, 2015 FMM Annual Report.
24

8

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

The technical capacities and self-management of the beneficiaries was strengthened through their
participation in the FFS. About 36 new FFS were established and four existing FFS were reinforced.
The project has shown that it is possible to increase, intensify and diversify agricultural production despite
a context of overpopulation and land constraints. Given the gradual extension of the dry season in the
country and in the sub region, the project has helped the beneficiaries to adapt by developing a number of
small-scale farming practices that increase their resilience to climate change.

Success story 1: Improved maize farming for a sustainable intensification of agriculture in Burundi
In Burundi, maize is by far the most consumed cereal. With its high concentration of starch (70%) and proteins,
this nutritious food is used in many traditional recipes, including cooking in boiling water, grilling, bread and
soup making.
But maize byproducts can also be valued in different ways.
In the Mwaro Province of Burundi, four Farmers Field Schools (FFS) decided to improve the way they farm
maize and make it more useful. It has produced the following multiple benefits for communities:
Improved seeds for higher production
The Farmers Fields Schools chose first an improved hybrid maize with a short growing cycle of about 90 days,
a strong ability to adapt to climates of average altitude and to resist diseases, a high production and bearing
capacity (3 bunches of maize per rod) and a strong stalk that’s resistant to wind.
From the 3 hectares planted, 9 tons of maize were harvested, with an average yield of 3 tones/ha, a three-fold
increase over the local Isega variety grown in the region that only produces 1 tone/ha.
Nothing is lost, everything is recycled
However, the schools did not stop there. They collected the corncobs, cut them into small pieces and used
them as substrate for the production of oyster mushrooms.
“The yield is very interesting," said Isaiah Ndayirukiye and Anastasie Ntahobatankura from the Vyizigiro FFS.
They further added that mushrooms are delicious, nutritious and generate regular income to farmers - all from
the waste of the maize plants.
The stalks were also used. They are robust and can support climbing bean plants. Before the project, stakes
were obtained from eucalyptus trees, contributing to deforestation, erosion and lower soil fertility.
After harvesting the climbing beans, stems, leaves and husks of corn were mixed with the stalks, bean pods
and other leaves to produce organic compost which was returned to the soil to improve fertility.
Integration of multiple agricultural practices
The overall experience proved successful. The multiple use of maize enabled a more efficient use of natural
resources, improved soil fertility and prevented deforestation.

9

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Towards more efficient farmers’ federations for agriculture sustainable intensification in the Niger
(Activities ended in July 2016)
The project objective was to strengthen eight farmers’ federations and their confederation in the Niger and
ensure they can better implement investment projects. More efficient and effective federations are
essential to provide better services to their members, support investments and take up economic
opportunities, leading to agricultural intensification and food security.
By mid 2016, the project had successfully strengthened the governance of the eight farmers federations
and their Confederation Gatanci,26 representing 176 000 farmers, through the improvement of their
financial and administrative procedures (Output 2.1.3) and their capacity to conduct specific economic
activities more efficiently (marketing of products or purchase of inputs), to implement business plans,
manage investments projects and exploit the potential of an existing guarantee fund, which facilitates
lending to farmers and their organization.
Gatanci’s capacity to support its members, to manage the guarantee fund and negotiate with Ecobank,
which hosts the guarantee fund was also strengthened, leading to successful negotiations on interest rates
and deadlines for repayment. FAO facilitated an agreement between Ecobank, the farmers’ federation and
Gatanci on the improvement of the functioning of the guarantee fund and the review and agreements of
federations’ loan applications by Ecobank.
The project piloted an organizational development approach. After an introduction to key performance
concepts, farmers’ federations assessed various aspects of their organizations and developed their own
plans for organizational development and performance. The project showed that scaling-up the approach
would require substantial funding and the mobilization of human resources to strongly involve the
federation’s member organizations at the local level, to support significant capacity development activities
in particular regarding management, and to improve communication at all levels.
Building the basis for scaling up climate smart agriculture
The project explores new areas of research to provide a better understanding of climate change impacts
on agriculture in Malawi and Zambia and the possible set for the most appropriate solutions. This
knowledge of climate-smart practices is essential to inform policy processes and frameworks that address
climate change.
Malawi has now the capacity to elaborate climatic and crop projections thanks to the training of 10
technical staff from the administration, the university and meteorological services.27 In Zambia, 20 technical
staff from universities, ministries and meteorological services were trained in analysis of climate variability.
In 2016, analysis of the role of livestock in building resilience to climate change was conducted in Malawi
and Zambia. The evidence generated was included in the revised version of the FAO Climate Smart
Agriculture Sourcebook and the 2016 State of Food and Agriculture.
In Malawi, research on the role of social safety nets and CSA as tools to adapt to climate change was
finalized. In Zambia, there is a better understanding of the drivers of deforestation and its roles in food
26
27

Gatanci is the federation of eight producers’ federations of Niger (Union des Fédérations des Producteurs du Niger).
Using the FAO Modelling System for Agricultural Impacts of Climate Change (MOSAICC) which is a system of models and utilities
designed to carry out inter-disciplinary climate change impact assessment on agriculture through simulations.

10

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

security, adaptation and mitigation. A study is also available on the linkages between climatic shocks,
livelihood diversification and welfare outcomes and potential policy entry points to incentivize the types of
diversification aimed at improving food security and resilience to climate shocks.
Results from evidence are already feeding into key policy processes such as the
United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest
Degradation in Developing Countries (UN-REDD+) in Zambia and the Intended Nationally Determined
Contributions (INDC) and also to the development of new agricultural policies in Malawi and Zambia.
Innovation: The project is conducting innovative research in different agro-ecologies of Malawi and Zambia,
using “mother and baby trials” on the use of green manure cover crops in rotation or intercropped with maize.
In the past, on-farm research designed as “mother and baby trials” has been developed primarily for varieties
only, but has not been applied to promote farming systems that entail green manure cover crops.
The International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT) facilitated this research in 18 mothers and
300 baby trials in on-farm communities using participatory approaches and the expertise of governmental
research and extension personnel. The process of knowledge generation, transfer and scaling is also
innovative. It uses participatory interactions and learning to advance largely unknown species and cropping
systems to smallholders. Farmers are mainly driving this process as they choose, select and experiment with
the technologies that they observe in the mother trial and adapt these to their own environmental and socioeconomic conditions.
Results showed that full rotations with legumes gave impressive maize yield benefits in the second year,
although farmers prefer intercropping strategies if they are land constrained. Also in favour of intercropping
is the fact that investments in soil fertility are at risk if there is a drought in the second year of a rotation. The
research shows that the successful integration of green manure and cover crops into farming systems depends
on the knowledge of the use of green manures and the availability of seeds.
Farmers showed a strong level of engagement in this applied research which gives them direct access to the
technologies. There is an increasing interest by farmers towards diversity and to make use of “greener” options
to overcome challenges with soil fertility, animal fodder, weed control and human nutrition.

Upscaling proven agroforestry practices in the Dry Corridor of Guatemala and Honduras
(Project activities ended in December 2016)
The project established the evidence necessary to scale-up agro-forestry Kuxur rum and Quesungual
systems and the natural resources management practices piloted in the Dry Corridor of Guatemala and
Honduras.28
Climate-Smart technologies and agroforestry systems practices were piloted monitored and evaluated by
885 households and have shown productivity, food security, water and soil conservation improvements.
The households involved in the piloting have acquired new skills in agroforesty and natural resources
managements. About 269 households benefited from ecostoves which reduce wood consumption and

28

Two farming systems based on traditional knowledge.

11

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

protect households’ health. About 50 water harvesting tanks and irrigation systems were established and
around 150 000 trees were planted.

Success story 2: Agroforestry plots brings substantial benefits to family in the Dry Corridor of Central
America
In the Dry Corridor of Honduras, the introduction of agroforestry techniques has meant a lot for 400
families, like the one of Santos Roberto Lagos.
Until recently, Don Santos, a 65-year old farmer and father of 7 children, could hardly make a living from
his two hectares of land. He sowed beans and corn and had a small garden with lemon grass, aloe, mango
and lemon trees. The sale of fruits provided most of his income. The production of maize and beans was
not enough to feed the family. He had to sell chickens or eggs to buy the grains they needed to eat. In
recent years, he increasingly felt the impact of recurring droughts: the forest receded and the soil and
water resources deteriorated further.
Through the FMM project, Don Santos and his family learned about integrated crop management and
agroforestry systems. They received fruit trees, orchard seeds, a small irrigation system and a water
reservoir. They learned to prepare organic fertilizers and botanical insecticides and fungicides, manage
the reservoir and irrigation system and prepare the orchard.
Progressively, they became leaders in their community in the implementation of an agroforestry plot
combining mango and lemon trees with basic grains, and have established small plots of vegetables such
as cassava, squash, sweet potato, allotted beans, all of which are irrigated by water from the reservoir.
The family’s food and nutrition security is now ensured, while the sale of the fruits will also ensure a
wider well-being.

In both countries, the institutional capacity to implement agroforestry systems, a more sustainable use of
water and natural resources, drought management is stronger thanks to the training of 50 local technicians
and authorities.
Several studies conducted by CATIE contributed to widen the scientific knowledge base on agroforestry
systems, providing important analysis regarding soil moisture, soil erosion and water runoff thresholds.
Field pilot activities were accompanied by an important effort of information, dissemination and advocacy,
in particular, in Honduras, to influence local and regional policies and to create conditions that promote
their implementation at a larger scale. Thanks to the organization of technical workshops, field visits to
project activities, the provision of technical support and the dissemination of radio spots, there is today a
wider knowledge amongst local, national, regional institutions and civil society of the importance of
climate-smart agroforestry systems and technologies.
In Guatemala, the project contributed to the final approval and dissemination of Probosque Law, which will
allow land owners with forests or agro-forestry in their lands to access financial incentives to support their
sustainable management.

12

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Innovation: In Central America, access to land is highly unequal and ownership is often concentrated in
a few landowners, usually cattle ranchers. They rent the land to small laborers, who, due to not been
land owners, are not in a position to adopt any kind of agroforestry systems.
The adoption of silvo-pastoral systems by ranchers would imply that their many benefits could also be
useful to landless farmers. To this end, the project carried out advocacy work for the adoption of silvopastoral systems, which relied on work with livestock platforms and educational institutions such as the
Ministry of Agriculture Service for Agricultural Training and Agribusiness Development (SEDUCA) in
Honduras and on the dissemination of a “Handbook on silvo-pastoral systems” developed during the
project.
Developing sustainable aquaculture in Asia
Aquaculture plays a big part in boosting global fish production and in meeting rising demand for fishery
products. As other food production practices, the sector faces challenges for its sustainable development.
In Bangladesh, there is now a better awareness and knowledge of the environmental impacts of shrimp
aquaculture, thanks to the conduct of an assessment and the dissemination of the findings amongst
stakeholders. Initial steps were made for the improvement of the sector’s environmental performance with
the discussion of an action plan and a training programme to improve the understanding of aquaculture
environmental issues.
In Sri Lanka, preparatory work continued to pilot the establishment of water based tilapia hatcheries
directly on reservoirs to enable the fishing community to produce their own fingerlings.29 The activities
support the Government’s strategy for the sustainable production increase of reservoir fisheries. Two pilot
communities were identified and the necessary equipment was procured. About 30 fishers from the pilot
communities were trained on the life cycle of fish and the rearing of fish in cages.
In Vietnam, there is a better understanding of aquafeed value chains and feeding practices for pangasius
farming and of the regulatory environment regarding aquafeed management thanks to studies and analysis
conducted. This analysis will inform the development of policies and relevant regulatory framework for the
development of pangasius farming with focus on sustainable feed supply and good management practices
(Output 2.2.1). Pangasius has emerged as lucrative specie in the last few years with potential for income
generation for farmers.
Building the foundations for an ecosystem approach to aquaculture
In Kenya, FMM activities seek to improve the use and conservation of coastal and watershed ecosystem
services (Output 2.1.2).
There is today a better understanding of the coastal and watershed ecosystems thanks to a study on the
importance of mangroves for food security and livelihoods amongst communities in Kilifi County and the

29 In the

past, farmers relied on a Government subsidized programme for the provision of fingerlings which is being terminated due
to sustainability issues.

13

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Tana Delta30 and a study on fish value chains in Lake Victoria, Lake Turkana and Marine Coast in Kenya. An
Atlas of mariculture potential areas is also a new source of information.
These studies inform the discussions on a Mariculture Strategy and Development Plan currently under
development with FAO technical support and policy advice and are expected to be finalized in mid-2017.
In the Kilifi and Tana River counties, the capacities of about 90 members of four community forest
associations were strengthened on mangrove restoration, nursery management and income generating
activities (such as aquaculture, bee keeping or weaving). They benefited from a small grant to implement
activities. In 2016, two groups planted a total of 70 000 seedlings and established 3 new mangrove
nurseries.31 The communities are also now more aware of the importance of biodiversity and
environmental protection thanks to dissemination activities.
In the Kwale County, seaweed production has been improved, thanks to the construction of a drying shed
for post-harvest loss reduction. The capacity of 145 seaweed farmers was strengthened through trainings
on seaweed production, processing and marketing.
Three conservation groups received support to increase crab production in the mangrove areas through
training and equipment for the construction of 70 crab-fattening cages. The capacity of 67 milkfish farmers
was enhanced through training in production technologies, processing and marketing and best
management practices.
Focus on partnerships: FAO helped establish a Public Private Partnership with Kilifi County Government
and Katito Private company to produce and ensure quality crab seeds for the grow out farmers. Through
these partnerships FAO is trying to address the private sectors engagement to create stronger
entrepreneurship development and reduce the dependency of baby crab/fingerlings harvesting from the
wild/nature, to protect the biodiversity and conserve ecosystems. In addition, a private company (Che
Shale) invested USD 50,000 to establish a crab hatchery, as a result of the project.
There has been a strong involvement of country government officials. Further to their training in best
management practices, seaweed and mariculture production, Kilifi, Kwale and Mombasa County
Government staff are now engaging actively with potential farmers and existing community groups to foster
the income generating activities.
A set of manuals on hygiene, post-harvest and fish processing is also available for university and technical
school graduates and for fish folks, fish processors, traders and farmers.

Valuing Ecosystems as Economic Assets, The importance of mangroves for food security and livelihoods among communities in
Kilifi Country and the Tana Delta, Kenya
31 The two other groups will do in 2017.
30

14

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Success story 3: Farming on water, seaweed culture enhances coastal livelihoods
Seaweed farming is gradually becoming a popular income generating activity for fishing communities along
Kenya’s coast in the county of Kwale.
Fish levels have depleted in recent years making it difficult for fishing communities to make ends meet.
Seaweed farming offers an alternative source of income and is becoming a commercially viable activity.
“We’ve been living in poverty unaware that we’re sitting on something that could help us”, says Tima
Mwalimu Jasho, a seaweed farmer at Kibuyuni in Kwale.
She is part of a 52-member self-help group that has been reaping the benefits of seaweed farming. FAO’s
training in business management and value addition enhanced the farmers’ capacity to produce and process
seaweeds, leading to improved end-products. FAO also provided a drying shed, guidance to reduce postharvest waste and assistance to develop links with markets.
“We have been supported to sell 41 tonnes of seaweed which gave us more than 1.3 million Kenyan shillings,”
explains Mwalimu Jasho.
Today, the group supplies seaweed to buyers in its raw form, and earns additional income from value addition
for products such as soaps, juices salads and cosmetic items.
Improved livelihoods
These activities have gradually improved the standards of living of the communities, with the majority of
beneficiaries being women. They have put food on the table, built new houses, educated their children and
purchased better building materials for their homes.
Tima Mwalimu Jasho has used part of her earnings to put up a small house which she plans to lease.
A rising demand
The seaweed is mainly exported to America and Asia where demand has been rising. Extracts of dried seaweed
are used as food thickeners and in the global pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries. With its high fibre and
mineral content, seaweed can also be used as a soil conditioner and fertilizer.
Looking for efficiencies and higher profits
Plans are currently underway to use a presser to compact the sea-weed which will reduce transport costs and
fetch a higher price per kilo of seaweed (50 Kenyan shillings per kg, up from 30 Kenyan shillings per kg).

Blue Growth for more productive, responsible and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture sectors
In Cabo Verde, substantial progress has been made to initiate the transition towards a Blue Growth
Economy.
Building on the adoption of a Blue Growth charter in late 2015, FAO provided technical assistance to build
the base for the transition. The capacity of the Strategic Intelligence Unit (SIU) of the Ministry of Finance
which has the technical responsibility for the implementation of the transition strategy has been

15

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

strengthened. FAO helped secure a USD2.98 million funding grant from the African Development Bank
(AfDB) Middle Income Country Technical Assistance Fund (MIC TAF) to finance an investment plan and a
multi-annual programme for the transition and support of the SIU. FAO prepared a Technical Country
Programme (TCP) to adjust and reform the institutions for the implementation of the transition.
In Madagascar, progress was compromised by the political situation, but should resume in 2017 with a
workshop to define the investment needs and programme priorities in relation to the African package.
Sensitization on the Blue Growth
FAO continued to sensitize international technical and financial partners on the Blue Growth and prepared
the development of a platform to stimulate coordination and synergies with partners involved in the sector,
such as the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), the World Bank, UNDP, etc.
With the World Bank and the AfDB, FAO is fully engaged in the promotion and implementation of the
African Package for Climate-resilient Blue Economies.32 It is organizing a conference “Blue growth and
economy: sharing African perspectives and experiences” (Mindelo, May 2017) to share experience and to
reinforce the Package.
Seaweed farming development for improved livelihoods
In Kiribati, the Philippines and Saint Lucia, the capacities of farmers were strengthened in seaweed farming
practices, value adding, preprocessing, business planning and marketing using participatory training
approaches (Output 2.1.1). The development of the sector holds strong potential for income generation,
livelihood improvement and food security.
In addition, innovative farming practices were introduced and tested. In Kiribati, about 20 farmers
introduced and tested floating systems, integrated seaweeds and sandfish productions. In the Philippines,
about 20 farmers tested integrated farming strategies with milkfish and shrimps. The results of the trials
were promising in both countries and farmers have adopted the strategies due to the various advantages
it presents: diversification of farmed products, increased resilience, efficient use of resources (human
resources, financial resources, land, water, etc.). These innovative strategies tested in a few communities
can be spread to others in a follow up project.
Forest and landscape restoration towards achieving land degradation neutrality by 2030
The international community has set up an ambitious target to address the worldwide problem of
deforestation and landscape degradation. The objective is to reach land degradation neutrality by 2030,
according to the SDG 15.3.33
In this context, the FMM project facilitates the planning and implementation of large scale FLR programmes
in six countries, namely Cambodia, Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru, the Philippines and Rwanda. It also
Developed by the AfDB, the WB and FAO, the Package is composed of five flagship programmes that span the African continent
from Morocco to Mauritius (four coastal regions and the SIDS of Africa) over the period 2017-2020. It consists of technical and
financial assistance to support coastal and island states in Africa to take the challenges of climate change as they develop their
ocean-based economies and implement their NDC. The assistance provided by the three agencies in each country is through new
investments funded by them as well as from the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility.
33 By 2030, combat desertification, restore degraded land and soil, including land affected by desertification, drought and floods,
and strive to achieve a land degradation-neutral world.
32

16

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

supports the development and implementation of restoration and sustainable landscape management
efforts at the global and regional levels through knowledge management, outreach and resource
mobilization and develops monitoring, assessment and evaluations tools and guidelines for FLR projects
and programmes.
National level progress on forest and landscape restoration programmes
In 2016, the implementation of the national work plans for forest and landscape restoration agreed upon
the previous year started in Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru and Rwanda.
In Guatemala, there is now a wider awareness amongst farmers and extensionists about the National
Strategy for the Restoration of Forest Landscapes, developed with FAO’s support in 2015, thanks to the
organization of workshops to promote the strategy and the establishment of demonstration sites.
In Lebanon, FAO technical advice contributed to progress made to set up two mechanisms for resource
mobilization: the National Forest Fund and a crowdfunding platform to mobilize the funds of the diaspora
for small scale restoration projects. Pilot restoration activities were launched (abandoned terraces in the
Kadisha Valley and the Shouf Biosphere Reserve and eroded landscapes in the bio corridor of Bkassine iconic
pine forest and Mhaidseh). In addition, the completion of an analysis of legislation which identifies the
barriers to FLR investments will help adjust and adapt the policy and legal frameworks accordingly.
In Peru, the first draft of the National Program for the Recuperation of Degraded Lands (PNRAD) was
prepared with FAO policy advice. Awareness of FLR was widened amongst students and extension agents
at government and sub governmental levels through presentations and workshops.
In Rwanda, the facilitation of the cross-sectoral working group for agriculture and natural resources, in
collaboration with the FAO Strategic Programme2, resulted in the Government’s request to FAO to facilitate
the preparation of a national strategy and action plan for agroforestry. In the Rulindo district, 9 FFS were
formed and the capacities of 25 FFS facilitators and 276 farmers to implement sustainable land
management and agroforestry practices were strengthened. This led in particular to the establishment of
a community nursery and the planting of about 12,000 tree seedlings over 200 hectares of farmland.
In Cambodia and the Philippines, the work plans for FAO action on FLR were developed providing a clear
path for action in 2017.
Restoration efforts at regional and global levels
Several regional initiatives on FLR were enhanced through FAO technical support. FAO played a leading role
in structuring the FLR dynamics in Asia Pacific and the Mediterranean, by facilitating the development of
the Asia Pacific Strategy and Action Plan on FLR, and supporting the organization of the fifth Mediterranean
Forest Week on FLR, leading to the Agadir Declaration. FAO also actively contributed, together with
partners to develop capacities and advocate for FLR in Africa and Latin America, with their respective
initiatives, i.e. the African restoration Initiative (AFR100) and 20x20.34

Initiative 20x20 is a country-led effort to bring 20 million hectares of land in Latin America and the Caribbean into restoration
by 2020.
34

17

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Success story 4: From restoring degraded lands to enhancing farmer’s nutrition and income –Petén, Guatemala
Over the years, the land of Pedro Tiul, a farmer from the Poptun municipality in the Peten region, has degraded slowly
and its fertility has decreased.
When the area was selected to pilot a new approach for restoring degraded lands, Pedro Tiul did not wait for long
before deciding to participate. He abandoned a maize monoculture and adopted the agro forestry system proposed by
the National Forest Institute, the Agriculture Ministry (MAGA) and FAO.
Together with his wife Dona Rita Bac, they received technical assistance and plants to start the restoration.
“I have always cultivated my field, but in a different way and without trees. I am now improving my milpa cultivation
with forest species such as ramón and other species that produce food such as cassava, macal and chaya.”1
South Peten is one of the areas where the Forest and Landscape Restoration Mechanism (FLRM) is promoting, (with
the FMM support) locally-developed agro forestry systems as a tool to restore degradated lands.2
A particularly promising system is the one using the indigenous tree “ramón” (Brosimumalicastrum) and a variety of
indigenous species for nutritious foods such as maize, “chaya”, “yucca”, “macal” and banana.
Cultural values form part of the sustainable land management in Petén. The ramón tree is considered a holy tree and
a source of life in the Maya culture. While the fruits and seeds are consumed by the inhabitants, other parts such as
branches, leaves, and shoots feed a large variety of animals such as parrots, monkeys, wild boar, deer, goats, which are
also an indirect source of food for local people.
Twelve months into the project, Pedro Tuil can already see the results. Banana plants grew two meters high and provide
shadow to the understory yuca, pumpkins and pineapple. Wild animals are back, able to find the food and the habitat
they need, as the system imitates the structure of a forest.
The nutritious food produced ensures food security and side incomes, especially as during the first years the trees will
not deliver timber or non-timber forest products.
“Step by step, I am incorporating other crops to my agroforestry system to produce food for my household. While my
trees are growing, I sell and provide banana, cassava and tree seedlings to neighbours,” explains Pedro.
Through the restoration activities, the pollinator’s population have recovered due to the higher diversity of insects for instance, cassava plants support Melipona bees, bugs and bumblebees.
Pedro Tuil and his wife have successfully converted the unfertile land into a productive environment for food
production mean while developing a functioning ecosystem.
In South Peten until 2016, 30 small farmers benefited from the FLRM Initiative in the pilot sites. These “restoration
farmers” will be involved in the local extension system as demonstration sites to share experiences with other farmers
in order to scale up the impact at region level.
1.

2.

A milpa is a field, usually but not always recently cleared, in which farmers plant a several crops at once, for instance maize,
squash, tomato or beans. Macal is a root crop with high protein and vitamin C content. It can be used in salads, soups and serves
to make flour for bread. Chaya is a domesticated leafy green vegetable of the Maya region.
In Guatemala, the FLRM supports the extension system of the Minister of Agriculture (MAGA) to define local models for
restoration of degraded landscapes. It supports technical assistance for smallholder’s trough exchanges, training, providing
vegetative materials and linking the smallholders with incentive programs of National Forest Service (INAB).

18

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Catalytic effects: Three important project proposals are under their final development stage, for
implementation in 2017. The flexibility of the FMM funding and its wide geographical scope have been
instrumental in the resource mobilization process and allowed to leverage these additional funds.
 Funded by the GEF, the restoration initiative (USD 54 million) will be jointly implement by UNEP, FAO and
the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in 10 countries. FAO will lead the
implementation in five countries and will be responsible for knowledge sharing and dissemination on FLR
issues at global level.
 Funded by the International Climate Initiative of the German Ministry of Environment (IKI) for
USD 5.3 million, the project “The Paris Agreement in action: scaling up Forest and Landscape Restoration
in the context of the Bonn Challenge to achieve the Nationally Determined Contributions by promoting
joint mitigation and adaptation approaches in Africa, Pacific Islands and the Mediterranean.” aims at
scaling up FLR to achieve the NDCs and is focused on three regional initiatives and six countries (Ethiopia,
Fiji, Lebanon, Morocco, the Niger, and the Philippines).
 Funded by the French Fund for the Global Environment (FFEM), a project worth approximately
USD 2 million aims at incentivizing stakeholders to restore and sustainably manage Sahel land to ensure
long term ecosystem services provision and participate to the Land Degradation neutrality objective.

Assessment and monitoring of FLR efforts
Important progress has been made to improve and align FLR monitoring worldwide. At the Drylands &
Forest and Landscape Restoration Monitoring Week organized at FAO headquarters in April 2016, a
collaborative roadmap for FLR monitoring was adopted and will be implemented by an open coalition of
partners with FAO’s leadership.35 In 2016, FAO provided substantive support for its implementation and
made preparatory work for the setup of a community of practice, facilitation of expert groups and
preparation of a guidance document on FLR monitoring.
Focus on Innovation: Investments needed to achieve the ambitious restoration goals to which countries
have committed to are huge: between USD 36 to 49 billion every year. The main barrier to tackling these
amounts is not the lack of investors, but rather the lack of knowledge on the variety of new financing
opportunities and their early stage of implementation.
The FLR Mechanism addresses both gaps by raising countries’ awareness on these opportunities through
knowledge products, trainings and events on these novel instruments and by accelerating the design and
implementation of innovative financing mechanisms at country level.
For example, in the context of the 40 million Tree Programme in Lebanon, the FLR Mechanism supports the
development of a crowdfunding platform for raising funds from the Lebanese diaspora to plant trees
throughout the country. In Cambodia, the FLRM designed a finance roadmap that includes training on
Payments for Ecosystem Services (PES). In Rwanda and for the neighboring East African communities, the
FLRM supports the Rwandan Ministry of Natural Resources in the organization of the Forest and Landscape
Investment Forum, the first FLR market place organized under the auspice of NEPAD, the secretariat of the
African restoration Initiative (AFR100).

It has five streams of work: 1) Development of a guidance document on the design, establishment and operation of FLR
monitoring systems, 2) Development of an interactive knowledge platform for FLR monitoring; 3) Forming and testing evolving
technical alliances, mechanisms and / or networks to support effective FLR processes (including monitoring) in selected countries
and regions; 4) Creating and facilitating a community of learning; 5) Form an innovation hub to support other activity streams,
harnessing contributions from the science, technology and innovation communities.
35

19

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Stimulating agroecology practices to enhance biodiversity and nutrition
The project started to build the foundationsfor the adoption of small-scale agro ecological farming systems
in Burkina Faso and Mali, through the improvement of the scientific knowledge of agro ecology and capacity
development and policy activities.
The project contributed to improving the scientific understanding of agroecological approaches, and their
specific relevance to Africa through a scientific review “Legume Crops for Sustainable Farms in Sub- Saharan
Africa”.
During the first year of implementation, the capacities of 450 farmers, master trainers in agroecology and
farmers who lead agroecology projects were strengthened through a series of trainings delivered to
farmers’ organizations and NGOs. Workshops had a specific focus depending on the needs expressed by
local partners (agroforestry, seed production, livestock production and pest management). Farmers and
future agroecology trainers learned techniques which allow them to enhance the sustainability and
efficiency of their agricultural practices.
In Burkina Faso, a national platform of agroecology trainers was established, opening the way for
knowledge sharing and the strengthening of trainers’ capacities.
Success story 5: a national platform for agroecology in Burkina Faso
In October 2016, an important step was made for agroecology in Burkina Faso: the first national platform for
agroecology facilitators was established. This was done at a meeting which brought together about 80
facilitators in the Tang Zougou agroecological farm in the Central Plateau.
Agroecology was first introduced in the 1980’s thanks to the pioneering work by international experts. During
the subsequent period, policies favoured high-input agriculture. The numerous small-scale agroecology
interventions remained local and disconnected from each other. This started to change in 2015 when a
national workshop brought together 70 local organizations working on agroecology from throughout the
country.
Until October 2016, these organizations were only an unofficial network. Today, the network is structured
and has been reinforced with the support of the FMM. Agroecology actors include organizations such as:
AIDMR (Association Inter-zone pour le Développement en Milieu rural), BéoNéréc (network of agroecological
farms) and APAD (Association pour la Promotion de l’Agriculture Durable dans le Sanguié). They sensitize
farmers to agroecology knowledge and practices, in particular through capacity development activities.
Trainers are the first mean of communication to sensitize rural population to agroecology.
Gathering actors into a structured platform encourages transmission of knowledge and data between
organizations, prior to transmission to rural farmers and strengthen trainers’ capacity. Trainers have often
various backgrounds, training techniques, and information. The platform will also allow member
organizations to follow-up on common strategies to support agroecology activities in Burkina Faso.

In Mali, farmers can benefit from knowledge available in a set of 10 factsheets on tree species useful for
agroecological and agroforestry systems. These materials fill a gap in agroforestry information, as existing
material was targeted mainly at technicians and scientists.

20

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Success story 6: In Mali, agroecology empowers women
In the Sikasso region of Mali, agroecology is helping women to have access to land. Access to land is often a
real challenge for women and one of the hardest steps to overcome towards gaining autonomy.
The cooperative La Convergence des Femmes Rurales pour la Souveraineté Alimentaire (COFERSA) trains
women in agroecological practices. Training their members in agroecology has helped COFERSA to make the
case for accessing land. COFERSA represents 35 cooperatives and about 4 000 women in the Sikasso region.
“In each village where we do training, we talk to the village head and say: we, women have been trained, we
have equipment; now we need land! Little by little, we got one hectare, then two and then a few hectares for
COFERSA’s centre,” says Alimata Traoré, President of the cooperative.
Today COFERSA headquarters is spread over four hectares of land and hosts an agroecological school. In
addition, 15 COFERSA cooperatives have some access to land. But it wasn’t easy. Women had to negotiate
with local authorities and convince them.
“Only the chief of a village or a local mayor can give land to women. The owner would never accept for
traditional, cultural or religious reasons,” says Traore. When women are given access to land, it is often not
secure. “Some land is given to you; you are going to improve in one or two years. When the land is rich enough,
just before a third harvest, the owners will come to tell you to leave the field”.
But over time women got access to some small land plots, demonstrating a true evolution of mentalities.
In 2016, with the FMM support, COFERSA organized several training workshops for women farmers on local
seed production and biological pest control.
“Women learn the skills they need to produce well and importantly they learn that they are capable of using
the land productively,” says Traoré. “This is very important, because the rest of the community also sees it,”
she further explains.
Agroecology can make an important contribution to nutrition in the region of the country which is the most
agriculturally productive region of Mali, but also paradoxically the most food insecure. Farmers who produce
agroecologically rely on local varieties, often nutritious and diversified, rather than external inputs. In addition,
there is ample evidence that agroecology can provide more stable and greater yields in places where other
models of agriculture do not perform.
“Men, who once said they did not want to see us, now come to visit and to support us. Village chiefs, traditional
leaders – we are respected by people – they no longer see us as a problem,” says Alimata. “Some men even
ask me why we don’t integrate them in our workshops,” adds Alimata.
COFERSA is looking at the next step. After women’s access to agroecology and access to land, COFERSA’s
strategy is now to strengthen their access to markets and, in particular, to create new markets for high quality
products based on local biodiversity.

21

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

The project also plans to provide policy support to create an enabling environment for the adoption of
relevant agroecology practices.
There is today a better understanding of farmers’ organizations and civil society’s vision on policies needed
to support the agroecological transition in West Africa. Through a series of workshops, about 900
representatives of Malian farmers’ organizations and civil society shared their experience and discussed the
kind of public policies they want to advocate for. Participants called for a human rights approach to ensure
access to food, land, water and healthy ecosystems.36
In Mali, there is also a better understanding of the opportunities and challenges to bridge the biodiversity
and nutrition gap thanks to a study on the measures necessary to integrate the biodiversity dimension into
policies, programmes and national action plans on nutrition. In late 2016, it was decided to set up a national
coordination on biodiversity and nutrition which will bring together farmer’s organizations, NGOS,
researchers, decision makers from the health and agriculture ministries and FAO.
Boosting food and nutrition security through integrated landscape management in Fiji and Samoa
The objective of the project is to improve food security and access to nutritious foods through improved
and integrated land management. The 2016, the FAO Sub regional Office for the Pacific Islands (FAOSAP)
planed and prepared activities to be implemented in 2017, in collaboration with relevant national
authorities (see the revised project logframe with the list of activities to be implemented in 2017).
A small part of the project was implemented in 2016. FAO conducted an assessment of the damages caused
by cyclone Winston in Fiji on tilapia farms and provided technical support for the design of the appropriate
rehabilitation efforts with a view to restore eco-friendly and socially appropriate production practices.

2.3 Reduce rural poverty (SO3)
Poverty is a major cause of food insecurity and malnutrition and remains a global challenge. Under its
Strategic Objective 3, FAO seeks to reduce rural poverty, improve rural livelihoods and dynamize and
diversify the rural economy. In 2016, the FMM supported three projects contributing to enhance access to
productive resources, services, organizations and markets (Outcome 3.1) and to enhance decent
employment opportunities in rural areas (Outcome3.2).
Empowering communities and women to reduce rural poverty
In 2016, the Dimitra project contributed to strengthening rural organizations and institutions in Burundi,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, the Niger, Mali and Senegal (Output 3.1.1) where 50,000
rural women and men are better organized and empowered thanks to their membership in the Dimitra
Clubs.37 It is estimated that more than 1 million people from the targeted communities benefit from the
clubs’ achievements and improved access to information.

They echoed the recommendations of the FAO Regional Meeting on Agroecology in Sub-Saharan Africa (November 2015) which
underlined the importance of access to natural resources for smallholders, including access to land, water and biodiversity.
37 The FAO Dimitra Clubs are groups of women, men and young people – mixed or not – who decide to organize themselves so as
to work together to bring about changes in their communities. They meet regularly to discuss the challenges they face in their daily
lives, make decisions and take action to resolve their problems.
36

22

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

In Burundi, despite the difficult political situation that prevented the provision of technical support, the
1,000 members of the Clubs have developed their resilience capacities through dialogue and gardening
activities. Several women have emerged as leaders and have joined formal local organizations.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the 305 Clubs in five provinces of the country have obtained
a variety of results such as improved social and physical environment (cohesion, peace, sanitation, hygiene,
etc.), the elimination of food taboos, the strengthening of technical capacities in vegetable gardening and
fish farming (Kinshasa Province) and access to land and natural resources (South Kivu). About 200 social
leaders (two thirds of which are women) and 18 community radio operators have been trained.
In the Niger, the 1,049 Dimitra Clubs have continued to enhance women’s leadership, access to land,
improved agriculture techniques and active participation of the poorest people in their communities. In
most of the targeted villages, the clubs have boosted education. The methodological alliance between FSS
and Dimitra Clubs is under way through interactions of 70 new FFS with the clubs to exchange on CSA
techniques. In the context of a UN Joint programme on women’s economic empowerment (RWEE), the
Dimitra Clubs have been confirmed as entry point at village level for all activities.
Catalytic effects: Increased awareness of results and impact achieved by the Dimitra Clubs have led to a
multiplication of partnerships, requests by governments and donors to implement the Clubs approach,
resulting in new funding opportunities at country level.
In the Niger, the Government has allocated USD 1.6 million from its World Bank loan to implement the Dimitra
Clubs approach in its new “Programme d’appui à l’agriculture sensible aux risques climatiques » (PASEC).
Moreover, the Government will provide USD 400.000 to FAO for its technical assistance to PASEC on the
Dimitra Clubs through a Unilateral Trust Fund agreement, the first ever in the country.
In the DR Congo, an agreement between FAO and the Ministry of Agriculture has been signed for the National
Extension Services to be trained on the Dimitra approach. This reflects the willingness of the decentralized
staff of the Ministry of Agriculture to be involved in supporting the approach and includes it in the provincial
agriculture strategies (Haut Katanga Tshopo, Kikwit, and Kenge Provinces).
In addition, new impact areas increasingly benefit from the Dimitra approach, such as peace building, conflict
resolution and post conflict situations. In the DRC, the approach has been integrated in the following projects
and proposals: Autonomisation des Femmes Rurales dans le programme agricole funded by the African
Solidary Trust Fund (ASTF); Stabilization of Priority Post-Conflict Areas - Transitional Development through
Agricultural Value Chains& Livelihood Recovery and Diversification- Nord Kivu (WFP), funded by Germany;
Strengthening Smallholder Farmers’ Value Chains in the DRC - Purchase for Progress, Tanganyika (WFP),
funded by Sweden; Paix Résilience Equité pour l’Avenir à Kitshanga, Nord Kivu, by MONUSCO.
In Mali, 30 Dimitra Clubs have been set up in Bandiagara, in the framework of a German-funded FAO project
on resilience and nutrition in Mopti, at the end of 2016.

In Senegal, a GEF-funded Climate Resilience Project was launched in October by FAO Senegal. National
capacity development has already begun and enabled the creation of 60 Dimitra Clubs in Tambacounda
(out of 400 to be set up during the entire project), in connection with FFS.

23

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

What has emerged as a new force in 2016 is the wide use and strength of the Dimitra Clubs to improve
impact of all rural development activities and to contribute to various SDGs (poverty, zero hunger, gender
equality, climate action, etc.). The experience and success of the Dimitra Clubs as an entry point for the
RWEE Joint Programme is of interest for replication in other joint programmes.
Success story 7: The Democratic Republic of the Congo: Dimitra Clubs, gender roles, food taboos and
improved nutrition
In the northeast of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Tshopo Province is covered by the rainforest and
watered by the Congo River and its tributaries.
On this huge territory, fishing is a key economic activity, traditionally controlled by men. However, recently,
women have begun to make their contribution, thus breaking the traditional schemes of labor division between
men and women.
This was possible thanks to the local Dimitra Club in the village of Isangi: “Men-women equality and the gender
division of responsibility were discussed in our Dimitra Club for the first time. We have realized that women
can also play a proactive role in fishing activities”, said Henri, one of club’s members.
Behaviors have gradually changed and today women carry out tasks that were previously attributed to men,
such as fishing.
This redefinition of women’s roles increased the household’s fish catches and consequently their incomes. As
a result, people’s diet is now more varied and balanced.
A few kilometers from Isangi, in Yalosuna, the Dimitra Clubs encouraged communities to fight against food
taboos and resulting malnutrition.
“Tradition forbade women from eating catfish. People believed that if you eat it, your eyes, belly and arms will
swell, your hair will fall out and your body will be ripped in pieces”, said Adama, a member of the local Dimitra
Club.
Thanks to discussions and awareness activities in the Dimitra Clubs, things have changed. Adama and the other
women of the village can enjoy previously forbidden food, which represents a new source of proteins, and an
important step towards gender equality.
On the other bank of the Congo River, in the village of Bosukulu, the local Dimitra Club has introduced a new
crop: soya bean, a legume that is highly rich in protein.
After discussions in the club a few months ago, members realized that their diets were not diversified enough
and they decided to introduce new varieties of crops.
“We have introduced the culture of soya because people used to suffer from malnutrition, particularly
children,” said Jean Besombi, leader of a local Dimitra Club.
All of these experiences are worth being shared, and the information is transmitted through community radio.
Each week, the clubs discover what other clubs do, talk about it and build on these experiences.
Thanks to their work, the Dimitra Clubs allow communities to redefine their daily life and shape their future.

24

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Focus on gender: All FMM projects paid specific attention to gender and reported concrete efforts to
mainstream gender in one way or another.
In 2016, the FMM supported two gender-specific projects: Dimitra and the project on women
empowerment along value chains. In addition, all FMM projects reported efforts and results to
mainstreaming gender.
Projects generally encouraged and achieved gender balanced representation during trainings and project
activities as shown in the following examples. In Kenya, 55 percent of people trained through the project
on ecosystems approach were women. About 70 percent of the beneficiaries of new agroforestry practices
in Guatemala and Honduras were women. Field trials on green cover crops had a majority of women
participants. In Burundi, 70 percent of the 1 200 producers trained in 40 farmer fields schools on integrated
agricultural practices were women.
Several projects supported the application of principles which include gender equity such as the projects
on tenure, Sustainable Food and Agriculture or Decent Rural Employment (DRE).
The project promoting DRE paid specific attention to the gender dimension. In particular, gender issues
are analysed as part of all analysis conducted at country level, as well as in supporting policies and
strategies. One of the 7 lessons of the e-learning course on DRE is on rural women’s empowerment in the
context of the decent work agenda and one of the 5 modules of the DRE toolbox is on Women and Decent
Work. In Uganda, FAO supported training and the revision of MAAIF and Office of Statistics tools for the
integration of both gender and age considerations. In Senegal,10 out of 24 youth innovators selected in
the agribusiness competition in Ziguinchor were women.
In Guatemala, the project on the strengthening of the CSO and grassroots organizations in the VGGT
processes implemented activities with the specific focus of “Gender and the VGGT”.
In Mali, the main partner for the project on agroecology is COFERSA, a grouping of 36 rural women’s
cooperatives. COFERSA was established because women farmers felt that their issues were not sufficiently
taken up by existing farmers’ organizations.
In Focus: Measuring the gender gap related to food insecurity
The project has reported 2014/2015 global and regional prevalence estimates of moderate and severe
food insecurity disaggregated by gender. “Based on the preliminary assessment for 2014–2015, gender
disparities in food insecurity appear to be relatively low, with adult women being more affected than
adult men almost everywhere. Southern Asia is the only region where the difference is substantial (3.8
percentage points).”

Job creation in small ruminant value chains in Ethiopia
(Project activities ended in July 2016)
In Ethiopia, the project successfully piloted the setup of small ruminant fattening businesses, leading to
improved households’ incomes and livelihoods.

25

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

The project achieved several results. First, there is now strong evidence of the potential for employment
creation along small ruminant value chains in Ethiopia thanks to an assessment conducted with the Tigray
Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) and Amhara Region Agricultural Research Institute (ARARI).
This knowledge was strengthened by evidence that emerged from field pilot activities. About 610
households in Amhara and Tigray can now run a small ruminant fattening business independently. They
have increased their skills in small ruminant fattening and their ability to negotiate prices and access to
input supplies and services. They have organized producer groups and feed is now more accessible thanks
to collective action for transport. In August 2016, at the end of the project, beneficiaries were in the third
cycle of fattening and were able to sell fattened animals with a profit, thus improving their income and
livelihoods.
Access to financial services facilitated by the project through revolving funds set up at RuSaccos, Local Rural
Saving and Credit Cooperatives, generated more membership to RuSaccos and opened new economic
opportunities for poor households. The collaboration established with RUSACCOs ensures that fattening
activities can continue and grow overtime.
Evidence informed the implementation of the Ethiopia Livestock Master Plan (2016), which foresees
important investments in the livestock sector to meet a growing demand for animal source food. The
information also fed into the preparation of a large-scale investment programme for the livestock sector in
Ethiopia by the World Bank and the development and implementation of the Bill &Melinda Gates
Foundation funded programme(MTF/GLO/686/BMG) called «The Small Ruminant Landscaping Grant »
(started in 2016). This programme was directly stimulated by the project which generated the interest of
the Foundation to identify major bottlenecks for the transformation of the small ruminant sub sector at
national level.
The information generated by the project will allow scaling up activities in other parts of the country. The
regional governments are considering the replication in adjacent Woredas and Kebeles.
In both regions, the capacity of the following actors has been strengthened: rural development agents,
researchers from regional research institutes38, Relief Societies of Tigray, the Amhara Livestock Resources
and Development and Promotion Agency, two local implementing partners, expert in small ruminant value
chains. In both regions, the offices of Agriculture at zonal and woreda levels have a better understanding
of a successful approach to foster job opportunities in the small ruminant sector.
Fostering Decent Rural Employment (DRE)
The world is facing a global employment crisis, which has profound implications on rural poverty and the
migratory crisis. Through its Integrated Country Approach (ICA), FAO supports member countries in
restructuring of the agricultural sector and the diversification of the rural economy more effective in
creating better jobs in rural areas, with a particular focus on youth.
At country level, the ICA project enhances the employment content and youth focus of policies and
programmes for agricultural and rural development. The entire approach is geared towards sustainable

38

Amhara Regional Agricultural Research Institute and Tigray Agricultural Research Institute.

26

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

policy change and places emphasis on strengthening the capacities of national institutions responsible for
agriculture and labour to promote decent rural employment.
In 2015, FAO launched the ICA for promoting DRE in Guatemala, Senegal and Uganda with the FMM
support (Output 3.2.1). The FMM ICA project is part of the broader FAO DRE programme which integrates
regular budget and extra-budgetary resources and operates in more than 15 countries. The FMM ICA
project is a crucial component of the broader DRE programme, representing around 15 percent of its total
budget. In particular, it funds almost 50 percent of FAO dedicated country policy support on decent rural
youth employment.
Several results were achieved in 2016, there is today a better understanding of the performance of youth
programmes in the respective countries, the adoption of labour standards in the sector (with focus on youth
as target group), and the youth aspirations as regards to working in rural areas thanks to several
assessments and studies conducted during 2016.
Inclusive policy dialogues
In 2016, policy advice provided by FAO and the process of inclusive policy dialogue enabled the
enhancement of strategic policy documents and the mobilization of a wide range of stakeholders on the
rural youth employment agenda.
In Guatemala, the development of a National Decent Work Policy (launched in Feb 2017) was successfully
supported by FAO to integrate rural dimensions. Furthermore, FAO supported policy dialogue at
departmental level towards the formulation of a Rural Employment Strategy for the Department of San
Marcos (to be formally adopted in 2017) – a technical roundtable has been established, which meets
monthly, composed of 17 institutions.
In Senegal, the policy dialogue focused on engaging local government authorities and the preparation of a
Strategy for DRE promotion at the local level. The dialogue builds on the successful development of the
Rural Youth Employment policy in 2015 (to be officially endorsed in 2017) with FAO support. In addition,
the bases have been set up for a National Observatory of Rural Employment (ONER) to be based at the
Agence Nationale pour la Promotion de l'Emploi des Jeunes (ANPEJ), to ensure the monitoring of labour
market, data collection and management in agricultural sectors, and rural youth access to market
information regarding agricultural products.
In Uganda, the project supported the Youth in Agriculture Strategy and the mainstreaming of a youth
component into the Extension policy and strategy, the Agriculture Sector Strategic Plan (ASSP) and its M&E
results framework, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
(MAAIF). The youth strategy development is an innovative policy process, where huge commitment has
been mobilized and truly inclusive participation.
In each country, a pilot project was initiated or identified as a priority for 2017 to explore operational
approaches to promote youth engagement in the agricultural sector.
Capacity development
The capacities of national stakeholders to promote decent rural youth employment were further
strengthened through training and technical support. FAO country offices are also better equipped today

27

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

to promote DRE issues, in particular through the presence of a full-time consultant on DRE in each country
office.
Several capacity development tools have been finalized and will be used in 2017 to train FAO’s staff,
including an e-learning on DRE, a global DRE policy database and a guidance document on mainstreaming
decent rural employment in the strategic planning of agricultural development. An online DRE toolbox
which encompasses all available resources for DRE promotion is also available.
At regional level, the ICA project has directly supported the formulation of a regional programme, entitled
Youth Employment: enabling decent agriculture and agri-business jobs, to be launched in a regional
workshop in April 2017. The validation of the programme by FAO Regional Office for Africa as one of the
two new Special Programmes that will complement the regional initiatives of FAO Regional Office for Africa
(RAF), demonstrates the increased commitment of the region in tackling the youth employment challenge
in Africa.
Catalytic effects: In Senegal, FAO has been recognized as an implementation partner for the
government’s project «Développement de l’Entreprenariat des jeunes dans l’Agriculture et
l’Agroalimentaire». The government project is part of the AfDB regional programme Empowering Novel
Agri-business -Led Employment for Youth (ENABLE YOUTH) and supports graduated youth in becoming
successful agripreneurs.1 Thanks to FAO’s advocacy work, it was decided that FAO would complement
the project by supporting more vulnerable youth, non-graduated, to access modern value chains. In this
context, the Ministry of Youth/ANPEJ committed to contribute approximately 500,000 USD to the
establishment of 4 platforms (adopting the model developed by FAO of Modèle d’Insertion des Jeunes
dans l’Agriculture [MIJA] platforms) to support the integration of young people in the agricultural sector.
1 The

ENABLE Youth (Empowering Novel Agri-Business-Led Employment for Youth in African Agriculture) is an initiative through
which the AfDB seeks to reach out to close to 800,000 youth in 20 countries in southern, eastern and western Africa regions.
The programme aims to generate 20,000 internships, 10,000 agribusiness start-ups, and 30,000 new jobs in rural and urban
areas, leading to incomes of at least US $450 per month.

2.4 Enable inclusive and efficient agrifood systems (SO4)
Globalization, rapid urbanization and changing consumer preferences have created opportunities for
agricultural and food systems. They also represent new challenges for countries such as growing
malnutrition or food safety issues, and can also threaten the weakest segments of societies such as women,
youth, indigenous people, small scale farmers, herders and fishermen who have less access to education,
resources, capital and markets.
FAO supports the transition towards inclusive and efficient food systems. Strengthened agriculture and
food systems have a critical role to play in achieving the targets of the Sustainable Development Goals of
eliminating poverty and hunger, and increasing resilience to climatic and economic shocks.
In 2016, three FMM projects contributed to more efficient and inclusive agrifood chains by addressing
important areas of work: the reduction of food losses and wastes whose importance for the sustainability
of the planet resources is now fully acknowledged translating in SDG target 12.339 (Output 4.2.2), the role

39 Aiming

at halving food waste and reduce food loss globally by 2030.

28

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

of women in agrifood chains (Output 4.2.3) and the stimulation of investments in agrifood chains
(Output 4.3.2).
Global Initiative on Food Loss and Waste (FLW) Reduction40
Through its Global Initiative for Food Loss and Waste reduction, FAO is actively involved in tackling the
immense challenge of food loss and waste at local, national and international levels.
In 2016, FAO with the support of the FMM continued to ensure that worldwide action for Food Loss and
Waste reduction by public and private actors is well coordinated to avoid duplication and stimulate
synergies and resource sharing. Coordination is essential, given the magnitude and complexity of the FLW
issue and the number of initiatives started worldwide to address it.
In 2016, FAO continued to play a key role in increasing awareness and knowledge on the causes, impact
and approaches to reduce food losses and waste and remains a central point for global information on FLW.
This was achieved through the continuous maintenance and updating of a crucial platform for centralizing
and sharing resources, experiences and knowledge (Save Food Web site and associated products such as
the newsletter, forum discussions, etc.). The Save Food network of partners has increased in size – about
1000 members, against 500 last year, many of which are engaged in the Community of Practice on FLW.
In 2016, support has been provided to the development and establishment of new platforms on FLW
reduction, in particular the Champions 12.3 platform and the EU platform on food waste reduction.
Collaboration continued with partners to develop educational materials for school children on FW
prevention and to develop FAO’s Global Food Loss index.41
In the Andhra Pradesh state of India, FAO supported an assessment of food losses for mango, rice, milk and
chickpea value chains contributing to the general understanding of food loss extent, impact and causes.
The skills of 15 researchers from the Andhra Pradesh state were strengthened to conduct the assessment.
Empowering women along agrifood value chains
Women are the backbone of the rural economy. Too often relegated in the lowest paid and unskilled
segments of value chains and the lowest value sectors, they lack access to productive resources, education
and training to develop their immense potential. This “gender gap” represents a missed opportunity to
secure sustainable development for the agricultural sector as well as improved food security and nutrition
for all.
The project activities aim at unlocking women’s potential along value chains and offering them more
opportunities, ultimately triggering multiplier effects in particular on food and nutrition security.
In 2016, FAO finalized eleven Gender Sensitive Value Chain (GSVC) assessments to identify gender gaps and
opportunities for value chain development support in the following value chains: fisheries (Burkina Faso,
Tunisia, Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire), dairy (Ethiopia, Kenya and Rwanda), cassava (Côte d’Ivoire), tomato
(Ethiopia), tropical fruits (Kenya) and cross border trade, with focus on fisheries and horticulture (Rwanda).

The FMM provides support to activities and projects under the umbrella of the Global Initiative on FLW Reduction (Save Food).
The report provides information only on the FMM component of the Umbrella Programme.
41 In particular with FAO Statistics and the World Resource Institute.
40

29

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Women active in selected value chains benefited from the delivery of labor-saving small-scale technologies
which contribute to value addition, enhanced food safety and hygiene in Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire,
Ethiopia, Ghana, Rwanda and Tunisia. Capacity building in the use and maintenance of the equipment has
also accompanied the facilitated access to equipment for fish, cassava, dairy and horticulture processing
products.
About 3,200 people (from women’s associations, small-scale enterprises, platforms and cooperatives) in
Burkina Faso (fisheries value chain), Côte d’Ivoire (fisheries value chain), Ethiopia (tomato value chain),
Ghana (fisheries value chain), Kenya (dairy and tropical fruits value chains), Rwanda (dairy value chain) and
Tunisia (fisheries value chain) learned new skills and developed their capacities for the development of
gender sensitive and efficient value chains.
In addition, the foundations for a policy dialogue on VC development and women empowerment in specific
value chains were established in Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda, and Tunisia.
In Burkina Faso, the policy framework and regulations for small-scale fisheries were reviewed and analysed
with public institutions and recommendations were made to ensure women empowerment along the value
chains.
In Côte d’Ivoire, extension officers from the Ministry of Fisheries have now the capacity to conduct gender
sensitive value chain analysis. A one-day policy dialogue opened opportunities for the establishment of an
inter-branch organization for stakeholders involved in the cassava value chain.
In Ethiopia, a multi-stakeholder policy platform and task force involving Women’s Affairs’ Office, Bureau of
Agriculture and Rural Development and FAO were established to identify policy constraints and actions to
facilitate women’s access to the higher added value segments of the horticulture value chain.
In Kenya, members of the task force who will review the national livestock policy have been capacitated on
how to mainstream gender in policy formulation thanks to capacity development activities. A policy multistakeholder platform was set up to foster advocacy on major constraints faced by women in tropical fruit
value chains to access markets.
In Tunisia, a national stakeholders’ workshop organized to share the findings of the VC analysis and develop
a national strategy for the economic empowerment of women involved in the small-scale fisheries value
chain. The yearly “Arrêté ministériel” which lays down the conditions for fishing and market placement of
clams was revised to ensure fair marketing practices.
Normative products are now available in the hand-book “Developing gender-sensitive value chains. A
guiding Framework” that helps policy-makers and field practitioners to integrate gender equality
dimensions more effectively and systematically in their interventions. A training package in gendersensitive value chain development for institutions and service providers, with focus on coaching skills is also
being used for targeting organizations and institutions in the FMM countries.

30

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Voices from Rwanda: crossing borders - Challenges of women involved in informal cross-border trade
Despite efforts to formalize trade within Africa, it is very common to see women crossing borders with their
heads and backs laden and arms overloaded with goods for sale.
Informal cross-border trade (ICBT) refers to imports and exports of goods and services that does not pass
through custom controls and therefore escapes the regulatory framework for taxation and social protection.
Many of the traders involved in ICBT are self-employed women who seek a market outlet for their products
and to generate revenues to often cover basic needs such as food and schooling. They are not able to enter
the formal sector due to difficulties in getting access to travelling documents or trading licenses, overcharging
by customs officials and lack of knowledge of official procedures.
Nevertheless, informal women traders often face undue taxes or the confiscation of goods.
In Rwanda, FAO is supporting women informal trader through the creation of a task force together with UN
Women, the Catholic Relief Service, governmental bodies, international organizations and NGOs to coordinate
and harmonize activities and jointly formulate interventions in the following areas:
1. Policy advocacy at the level of regional economic communities and member states to implement
harmonized trade-policy mechanisms, including those on small-scale and informal trade;
2. Recognition of the economic contribution of women in informal trade of food products;
3. Development of infrastructures and services to support women informal traders at the borders;
4. Translation into local language of regulations and protocols on export requirements, simplified trade
regimes, tax-exemption and reduced tax rates for the more exported agricultural products;
5. Support selected informal women trader associations to register and thus have a legal status to enhance
their voice in the decision-making process at policy level.
So far, the task force has successfully brought to the attention of experts and policy makers the potential that
small-scale trade has for poverty alleviation.
Simultaneously, the main challenge, and achievement is to draw out from invisibility the thousands of women
and men who are getting their livelihood crossing borders every day.

Stimulating investments in agribusiness and agro-industry
(Project activities ended in August 2016)
Inadequate public and private investments continue to hinder the development of inclusive and efficient
agricultural and food systems. The lack of financial services and products that adapt to the rural and
agricultural sector and the lack of financial literacy are some of the constraints limiting investments and the
development of these systems.
The FMM funded project aimed at stimulating local investments in the agribusiness and agro-industries
sectors, enhancing the development impact of such investments and contributing to inclusiveness and
poverty reduction.

31

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

In the Cook Islands, seven new agribusiness were established in 2016 through a matching grants facility,
which supports the establishment of new agribusinesses. As a result of the strong impact of the intervention
in 2015 and 2016, the Bank of Cook Islands is considering the development of a new agricultural portfolio.42
In East and Central Africa, the capacity of 22 risk-management, credit and IT staff of financial institutions
was strengthened to perform risk-management and agricultural loan appraisal processes for investments
in agriculture and agribusinesses. As a result, a number of financial institutions – notably KCB Kenya and
KCB Uganda - expressed interest in a collaboration that would involve an institution-wide capacity building
initiative that supports KCB’s recent strategic focus on growing their agribusiness SME lending portfolio.
Discussions in this regard are ongoing.
FAO provided technical assistance to the Agricultural Commodity Exchange for Africa (ACE) to increase
participation of the SMEs and smallholder farmers to the warehouse receipt system in Malawi. To better
connect farmer groups to ACE’s warehouse receipt system and ACE’s overall financial services, a training
package on financial literacy was developed for smallholder farmers and disseminated via ACE extension
agents.
There is also a better understanding of contexts for investments in agribusiness through the preparation of
three studies: study on financial services provided by microfinance institutions to producers’ organizations,
paper on the innovations for inclusive agricultural finance and risk mitigation mechanisms in Morocco, and
a study on the feasibility of the provision of crop-insurance in Fiji.

In 2015, eleven agribusinesses were established through a small matching grants facility funded by the FMM, 24 agribusinesses
were strengthened through mentoring and training and three youth groups were trained on business and awarded with further
grants by the Bank of Cook Islands.
42

32

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

3. Lessons learned
Delivering results
As noted last year, satisfactory results delivery is generally recorded for project activities focusing on
capacity development, the piloting of new agricultural practices or the development of guidance. Projects
focusing on policy work have generally a slower delivery due to the time needed to raise awareness and
forge the political will and leadership needed for policy work. Policy work often needs to be accompanied
by capacity building on technical matters. Despite the challenges, several results were registered in
countries where the environment was favorable.
A lesson learned is the recommendation to choose selected entry points for policy advice instead of trying
to influence the full spectrum of policy processes.
Regarding policy work on climate change and national adaptation plans, lessons learned are: financial
incentives or plans for raising additional funds should be developed from the beginning of the process, and
countries need capacity development within their institutions to address climate change in a more
comprehensive way.
Many projects underlined the need to work both at policy and field level simultaneously, and the benefits
of it, as experienced by the development of the Sustainable Food and Agriculture vision, the Integrated
Country Approach on DRE and the empowerment of women along value chains. Working at both levels
enables the “ground truthing” of the policy work which is ultimately strengthened by the field experience.
However, operating at both levels can be problematic due to the funding levels which not always allow the
implement of relevant field activities.
Several projects noted the deep interest expressed by farmers for sustainable practices. There was
generally a strong involvement in field research and testing conducted.
Land ownership can be a challenge to the uptake of new practices for the adequate management of natural
resources.
The success encountered by some projects and the increasing number of requests for support generated
can require the design and implementation of capacity development strategies, the development of new
programmes and the mobilization of new resources.
Capacity development remains a major challenge, particularly at local institutions. Some projects suffered
from the lack of technical institutional expertise at country level which slowed down project delivery.
Partnerships
Partners remain essential for the successful delivery of projects and the multitude of partnerships
established by the projects is a good indicator of their importance. It is essential to identify champions and
key partners since the inception phase to smooth implementation.

33

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Implementation period
Several projects would have benefited from a longer implementation period which would have enabled a
better mastering of innovations introduced and skills developed and the strengthening of partnerships
newly established and ultimately increases the project results’ sustainability in the long term.
FMM modalities
Projects had to develop mitigation measures to circumvent the uncertainty created by the annual funding
cycle, which puts at stake the management of human resources, impedes visibility on a potential follow up
with national partners and forces to implement activities in a very short timeframe. Often, they chose
partners which are already well experience and are able to include new work in their regular stream of
work.
Monitoring results
The second year of implementation of results monitoring as per the FAO results framework shows that
progress has been made in reporting results in the corporate monitoring systems. In 2016, FAO continued
its efforts to ensure country offices are included in FMM supported projects from the preliminary proposal
design phase till the results reporting which has strengthened headquarters engagement with country
offices. In this regard, country offices have been more involved in the preparation of new project proposals
in 2016 than in previous years and proposals regional offices have submitted in 2017.

34

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

Annex 1. FAO and FMM results delivery in 2016 against output indicators
Progress in 2016: ● Fully achieved (≥ 100%); Δ Partially achieved (< 100%)

FAO
delivery

End 2016
target

Output 1.1.3. Indicator. Number of organizations that have strengthened capacities for human resource and
organizational development in the food security and nutrition domain as a result of FAO support

25

18

•

2

Output 1.3.1. Indicator. Number of countries that improved monitoring and analysis of food security and nutrition,
including the contributions of different sectors, for informed decision-making as a result of FAO support

32

11

•

1

FAO OUTPUTS TO WHICH FMM CONTRIBUTES - 2016

Progress
against
target

FMM
delivery

Contribute to the eradication of hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition (SO1)

Increase and improve the provision of goods and services from agriculture, forestry and fisheries in a sustainable manner (SO2)
Output 2.1.1. Indicator. Number of FAO-supported initiatives that used inclusive and participatory approaches to
validate and facilitate uptake of innovative practices for sustainable agricultural production

107

116

Δ

4

Output 2.1.2. Indicator. Number of FAO supported initiatives conducted to identify, document, and facilitate
uptake of integrated and multi-sectoral strategies for sustainable ecosystem management, restoration and climate
change adaptation and mitigation

54

71

Δ

3

Output 2.1.3. Indicator. Number of public and private knowledge organizations and institutions, management
agencies and networks that received organizational and institutional and/or technical capacity development

56

71

Δ

8

15

13

•

3

support from FAO
Output 2.2.1. Indicator. Number of countries supported with analyses of governance issues and options for
integrated agricultural and natural resources sector sustainability

35

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Output 2.2.2. Indicator. Number of policy processes with cross-sector dialogue on integrated and more
sustainable agricultural and natural resource production systems that were supported by FAO

27

18

•

2

Output 3.1.1. Indicator. Number of countries in which support was provided to create an enabling environment
for rural organizations and institutions, as well as the empowerment of the rural poor

18

8

•

2

Output 3.1.3. Indicator. Number of countries in which support was provided for the development and
implementation of pro-poor, gender-sensitive knowledge, science and technologies for increased availability of
food and better access to markets

14

7

•

1

Output 3.2.1. Indicator. Number of countries in which assistance was provided for the drafting or revision of ARD
policies, strategies and programmes to integrate Decent Rural Employment (DRE) principles as a central element or
for the implementation of DRE programmes

6

6

•

2

Output 3.2.3. Indicator. Number of knowledge products on DRE developed and disseminated

12

5

•

1

Output 4.2.2 Indicator. Number of countries provided FAO support for reducing food waste and loss

27

13

•

1

Output 4.2.3 Indicator. Number of countries provided with FAO support to implement inclusive, efficient and
sustainable value chains

25

15

•

3

Output 4.3.1. Indicator. Number of institutions receiving FAO support to increase the availability of financial
products and services to the agricultural sector

29

19

•

3

Reduce Rural Poverty (SO3)

Enable More Inclusive and Efficient Agrifood Systems (SO4)

36

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Annex 2. Presentation of projects’ outcomes, outputs and activities
Increase the use of the VGGT among CSOs and grassroots organizations - FMM/GLO/111/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: the project objective is to enhance the capacity of CSOs and grassroots
organizations to contribute to policy processes, multistakeholder platforms, working groups and other
dialogues on the implementation of the VGTT.43
After the first year of implementation (2015), which showed that the model of support was successful, it
was decided to enlarge the number of countries participating; support the inclusion of the approach into
other projects; and scale-up the project by training potential networks of users on the methodology.
Project start date: July 2014.
Contributes to SO1, and Output 1.1.1 and 1.2.1.
Main 2016 Results
 Capacities of CSOs and grassroots organizations on the use of the VGGT developed and enhanced in
Colombia, Liberia, Mongolia, the Philippines, Senegal and Sierra Leone (between 20 to 250 people
have been trained and up to 1500 have been sensitized per country).44
 Capacities of an additional 155 members of CSOs strengthened in Nepal, about 251 people in
Guatemala with a special focus on the role of women and 90 people in South Africa.
 The learning framework and its approach presented to groups interested in using it, such as the
MERCOSUR Specialized Meeting on Family Farming whose members were also trained on using it, the
International Land Coalition and CSOs from Central Asia.
 The Learning framework “Putting the VGGT into practice: A learning guide for civil society” finalized in
partnership with the International Planning Committee for Food Sovereignty (IPC) and adapted by
different partners and teams to specific target groups, i.e. producer organizations (OPC Cooperative
Team) and farmer organizations (WFO). Technical support provided to ActionAid (AA) for the
adaptation to its Juridical Guide and other AA material.
 Capacity building tools and knowledge products prepared, in particular a new documentation related
to “Gender and the VGGT” and an analytical framework for the analysis of investment projects through
a VGGT lens and two videos on the role of CSOs in the development of the VGGT.45
 The successful implementation of the first phase of the project attracted external funding for activities
at country level. This allowed the project to cover 12 countries instead of the 6 initially planned.

The project is part of the umbrella VGGT implementation programme. The contribution of the two-year FMM (2014-2016)
represents approximately five percent of the four year implementation programme.
44 New capacities are: (i) knowledge of the VGGT; (ii) use of the VGGT to analyse systematically cases where governance of tenure
can be improved; (iii) to plan activities to support the VGGT implementation; (iv) to network on governance of tenure
issues; and (v) to strengthen the participation of CSOs in the multistakeholders platforms which have been established under
parallel FAO projects.
45 Also supported through GCP/GLO/347/UK
43

37

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

Indicative project log frame – Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned46
Project Outcome: Enhanced and meaningful contribution of CSOs and grassroots organizations to policy
processes, multistakeholder forums, working groups and other dialogues on the implementation of the VGGT
Output 1. Capacity building tools on the use of VGGT tailored to CSO and grassroots organizations available
2015
• An innovative training, specifically designed for CSOs, developed in a form of a modular framework to increase
the use of the “VGGT among CSOs and grassroots organizations” in partnership with Food First Information
and Action Network (FIAN) International.47
2016
 Learning framework “Putting the VGGT into practice: A learning guide for civil society” finalized in partnership
with the IPC.
 New documentation related to “Gender and the VGGT” (in Spanish) developed and used as a base for the ToTs
conducted in Guatemala. It also served as a base for the production of 7 country case studies.
 Developed analytical framework for the analysis of investment projects through a VGGT lens (in French).
 Facilitated the translation in Mongol of the Technical Guide on Pastoralism funded by GCP/GLO/347/UK.
 Technically supported the development of two videos on the role of CSOs in the development of the VGGT
funded through GCP/GLO/347/UK. The videos will be used as tools in the learning guide.
2017
 Publication of the learning guide (in English, Spanish and French).
 Create an online repository for access to the training materials, case studies, and strategies for the
implementation of the VGGTs at country level.
 Create an innovative communication tool for feedback, exchange and information sharing to promote
continued improvement of the materials and methodologies and sharing of ideas and strategies among
practitioners on VGGT implementation.
 Create one facilitated e-learning course (in English, Spanish and French) on the training material.
 Create one Community of Practice for trained facilitators and participants.
 Conduct bi-annual webinars on the learning guide and its implementation at country level.
 Disseminate the learning guide and information within FAO at HQ and regional/country levels.
Output 2. Enhanced capacity of CSOs and grassroots organizations on the use of the VGGT
2015- Activities were implemented in Guatemala, Malawi, Myanmar, Nepal, the Niger, Senegal and South Africa
• National partners identified in liaison with FIAN International and the FAO offices;
• Letters of Agreement (LoA) negotiated with national partners, technical follow-up and provision of guidance
to ensure systematic reporting;
• technical support provided to customize and roll-out the first training for each national partner;
• sensitization activities and trainings implemented by the national partners48.
2016
Trainings and sensitization activities to countries selected under phase 2 of the project
Mongolia

The log frame was developed for the reporting done in the FMM Annual report. Activities planned for 2017 are part of the
follow up project funded by the FMM in 2017.
47 The project has been led in partnership from the design of the modular framework, to the in-country technical assistance and
joint co–evaluation of the I Phase achievements. At the global level, the partnership was made with Food First Information and
Action Network (FIAN) whilst at the country level, seven national level organizations were partnered.
48 The participants trainings were either all CSO members or a blended audience of CSO members and government staffs. The
choice of the participants was the responsibility of the National Partners, although FAO could provide some guidance and advice.
This choice was deeply driven by each national context.
46

38

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

 A four-day ToTs conducted by People Centered Conservation Mongolia (PCC) for 30 participants. The draft law
on pastureland presented by a representative of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MOFA) was discussed.
 Two sensitization events organized by PCC (about 50 participants). The latter was organized in collaboration
with Centre for Policy Research (PCR) and MOFA, participants were sensitized on the VGGT and discussion
was held on the draft law.
The Philippines:
 A four-day ToTs conducted by the Asian NGO Coalition for Agrarian Reform and Rural Development (ANGOC)
for 21 participants. The activities with ANGOC are complementary to the TCP “Mainstreaming the Voluntary
Guidelines for Responsible Governance of Tenure” in the country, which aims to contribute to the
government’s capacity to strengthen land tenure governance consistent with the VGGT.
Colombia
 One training for facilitators (10 participants), 3 ToTs at national level (165 participants) and 3 ToTs at local
level (60 participants) conducted by the Federación Nacional Unitaria Agropecuaria (FENSUAGRO).
FENSUAGRO, a civil society organization, is involved in the implementation of the peace agreement. The
objective is to increase the capacity of CSOs involved in the ToTs to use the VGGT as a contribution to the
peace process.
Liberia
 One 4-day ToTs at national level, three regional awareness raising workshops, and a one-day workshop
conducted by Voice of the Voiceless (VoV) to consolidate the outputs of the regional raising awareness
workshops. Each event saw the participation of 20 to 30 participants. Exchange visit to Sierra Leone was
organized to share experience on the implementation of the VGGT.
Sierra Leone49
 One 4-day ToTs at national level on VGGT and the new National Land Policy; two 2-day training/orientation
programmes at provincial level; two 2-day sensitization workshops at provincial level conducted by Action for
Large-Scale Land Acquisition Transparency (ALLAT)/Green Scenery. 100 people participated in these
trainings/events. Exchange visit to Liberia organized to share experience on the implementation of the VGGT.
Senegal50
 ToTs (20 participants) conducted by the Conseil National de Concertation et de Coopération des Ruraux and
developed and field-tested an analytical framework for the analysis of investment projects through a VGGT
lens.
Disseminate the use of the modular framework
 Dissemination strategy for the modular learning framework produced by FIAN International;
 A two-day regional workshop conducted for the Latin American and Caribbean region with the participation
of MERCOSUR’S Specialised Meeting on Family Farming (REAF) and Guatemala and Colombia, partners of the
FMM project (20 participants). Participants were trained on the use of the learning framework. National
workshops to be implemented in 6 of the REAF countries in 2017.
 A two-day regional workshop conducted on the use of the learning guide with the participation of 40
participants from CSOs of the FAO Europe and Central Asia region51 and some CSOs national partners of the
FMM project (Nepal, Sierra Leone, Mongolia, and the Philippines).
 Technical support to OPC Cooperative Team for the adaptation of the learning guide for producer
organizations.
 Technical support to the World Farmers Organization (WFO) for the adaptation of the learning framework for
farmer organizations audience.
 Technical support to ActionAid (AA) on the adaptation of learning guide with AA Juridical Guide and other AA
material.

provision of technical assistance provided under the FMM and activities of national partners funded by GCP/GLO/347/GER
provision of technical assistance provided under the FMM and activities of national partners funded by FAO regular
programme)
51 also part of the project RA301020000M1 - MDF E1: Promoting secure land tenure within the framework of the VGGT
49
50

39

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

 Presentation of the learning guide to the International Land Coalition (ILC).
More in-depth trainings and activities for CSOs of phase 1 countries
Nepal
 Five ToTs at provincial level and one three-day national level ToTs workshop on the implementation of VGGT
(155 participants) conducted by FIAN Nepal. Focus on the new constitution and the post-disaster situation.
MPs involved in the ToTs agreed to consider the facts and suggestions provided during the training in the
amendment process of the National Park and Conservation Act.
Guatemala:
 Eight ToTs at local level and one ToTs at national level (224 participants) conducted by the Fundación
Guillermo Toriello. Focus on gender aspects of the VGGT. The results of the ToTs and case studies will feed
into the strategy defined by the FAO office to promote legal and institutional changes to strengthen women’s
rights to land.
South Africa (co-funded by FAO regular programme):
 Three ToTs at local level were conducted by Masifundise Development Trust with a total of 90 participants.
2017
 Conduct regional training courses and stocktaking exercises in two to three regions/sub-regions.
 Train CSOs at national and sub-national level in 3 new countries.
 Provide support in 3 countries on the implementation of selected action plans for increasing the use of the
VGGT by CSOs partners that participated in the previous phases of the project.
Output 3. Knowledge on experiences and lessons learnt to increase the use of the VGGT by CSOs available
and disseminated.
2015
• Communication supports prepared (video of the training in Malawi and on the stocktaking meeting);
• Presentation of the project at international events (International Land Coalition Global Land Forum, Dakar,
Senegal, May 2015), Land and Water days (FAO, November 2015).
2016
 Document on Capitalization on activities conducted under the project 1st phase covering 7 countries.
 Draft document: Case Study Template.
 Lessons learned and impact evaluation of the VGGT framework in Sierra Leone and Senegal included in A
good practice on multi-actor dialogue - The Voluntary Guidelines at the heart of Senegal’s tenure reform and
in A good practice on the implementation of the Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of
Tenure - A multi-actor and multi-sector approach in Sierra Leone funded by GCP/INT/810/BEL and
GCP/GLO/347/GER funds.
 Two regional workshops organized to share experience on how CSOs are using the VGGT and on the way CSOs
used the learning framework to support their work plans on tenure related issues (Budapest and Santiago de
Chile).
2017
 Finalization of the Case Study Template
 Finalization of the document Capitalization on activities conducted under project 1st phase.
 Experience and results of the project to be documented.

In 2017, another component will be added to the project to support national multi-stakeholder platforms
to include CSOs and address their tenure concerns: (i) provide support for the operative implementation of
5 national platforms; (ii) provide financing to catalytic interventions to 5 national platforms.
Lessons learned: To circumvent the uncertainly created by the annual funding cycle, which puts at stake
the management of human resources, impedes visibility on a potential follow up with national partners
and forces to implement activities in a very short timeframe, several mitigation measures were identified
such as: i) choosing a national partner already developing activities on the VGGT and able to include the

40

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

new capacities gained into the regular stream of work; ii) enhancing the linkages between the national
partner and the multi stakeholders platforms of dialogue through involvement of the steering committees
to guarantee continuity; iii) FAO’s technical backstopping role keeping a low profile during the ToTs to
ensure ownership of the methodology by the national partners.

41

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Voices of the Hungry (VoH) - FMM/GLO/106/MUL
The VoH Project is part of a wider umbrella project (PGM/MUL/2013-2018/VOH) supported also by
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (DFID) and FAO52 . Results presented below cover
the entire project (and not only results achieved with the FMM support).
Summary and project objectives: The overarching aim is to improve policy and programme response to
global hunger through an improved monitoring of food insecurity. The specific objectives of the project are
the following two interlinked ones:




the establishment of a valid global standard and related tool for measuring the severity of food
insecurity based on people's self-reported experiences of food hardships, for use throughout the world
in different contexts and at various scales of application (national assessment, programme
monitoring, impact assessment, etc.). The tool developed is called the Food Insecurity Experience Scale
(FIES).
the application of the FIES Survey module at national level covers over 150 countries annually to
produce comparable indicators on the prevalence of food insecurity of individuals at moderate and
severe levels or at severe levels. The data is collected through a contractual arrangement with the
Gallup® World Poll survey (GWP) that provides nationally representative data in over 150 countries.

Project start date: December 2013
Project contributes to: FAO SO1 and Outputs 1.3.1 and 1.3.2.
Main 2016 results:







Official endorsement of indicators produced using the FIES, to measure progress towards the 2030
Agenda for SDG 2, Target 2.1. by the UN General Assembly in September 2016;
FIES-based estimates of the Prevalence of Moderate and Severe Food Insecurity for 2014 and 2015, for
147 countries informed the first UN Secretary General’s report on Sustainable Development Goals and
the FAO 2016 Regional Panorama reports.
Capacity of professionals from 30 national or sub regional organizations to use the FIES developed.
The FIES increasingly used by partner organizations (German Cooperation Agency – GIZ-, USAID, World
Bank, WFP) and integrated in partners’ surveys modules or monitoring frameworks.
Greater awareness of the FIES worldwide thanks to advocacy, communication and partnership
initiatives.

The UK contributed USD 5 Million and FAO USD 1.98 million. Considering the financial support received to date from all resource
partners (USD 9.38 million) including FAO, the FMM contributes for about 25% (USD 2.4 million) of the implementation of the
umbrella project. Additional funding has been secured from the FMM for 2017 (USD 1.5 million for global SDG monitoring of SDG
indicators 2.1.1 and 2.1.2) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (MTF /GLO/707/BMG, USD 4.5 million).
52

42

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Project log frame – Outcomes, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcomes: timely and comparable annual global data that measures people’s conditions of food insecurity
at different levels of severity, based on their reported experiences, improved methods and tools for data collection
and analysis.
Output 1 -A global standard for measuring people's experience with food security is established.
2015
 Individual expert review of the methodology to define the reference scale and the calibration methods by experts
in the fields of measurement theory, psychometrics, statistics, and food security analysis. Strong conditional
endorsement of the validity of the methodology by the reviewers. Need to evaluate the actual results and cross
validate them against available evidence for a full endorsement;
 first technical report “Methods for estimating comparable rates of food insecurity experienced by adults in 147
countries’’ prepared based on 2014 data collection by GWP and analysed by FAO;
 second round of review by National Statistics Offices in the world. Soundness of the methods and the credibility
of the 2014 preliminary results confirmed.
2016
 Official endorsement by the UN General Assembly, in September 2016, of indicators produced using the FIES, to
measure progress towards the 2030 Agenda for SDG 2, Target 2.1.
 FIES-based estimates of the Prevalence of Moderate and Severe Food Insecurity for 2014 and 2015, for 147
countries, provided to the UN Statistical Division SDG indicator database. These estimates informed the first UN
Secretary General’s report on Sustainable Development Goals.
 Methodological research: analysis of the GWP India Extended State Survey conducted to test the effect of using
different time reference periods and the household versus individual reference.
2017
 Establishment of a baseline at country and regional level to monitor countries’ progresses towards SDG 2.1
targets.
Output 2 -Datasets of experienced food insecurity as collected by GWP in 150 countries annually is owned by FAO.
2015
 By the end of 2015, 151 data sets were collected by Gallup for a total of 300 for 2014 and 2015;
 quality assurance and analysis of the data received from Gallup on a monthly basis.
2016
 141 national data sets were collected by Gallup in 2016 for a total of 441 data sets for 2014, 2015 and 2016.
 quality assurance and analysis of the data received from Gallup on a monthly basis.
2017
• Online platform providing access to the full set of FIES micro data and results produced by FAO.
• FIES data published on a new FAO webpage (“Hunger Portal”) dedicated to SDG 2 monitoring.
Output 3 -A new set of indicators of the extent of experienced food insecurity at different levels of severity based
on the FIES is used and published for 140 countries and the linkages with policies on food security is demonstrated.
2015
 Prevalence of food insecurity produced for 147 countries (based on 2014 data collection);
 ten licenses granted to researchers to carry out analysis on links between food insecurity and other development
dimensions using the entire GWP data;
 inclusion of the FIES in a series of surveys supported53;
A private national survey in Bangladesh, a research coordinated by the Society for Social and Economic Research in India, a
provincial survey by the University of Kwu-Zulu Natal (South Africa), surveys conducted in Malawi, a national survey on Household
Living Conditions in Burkina Faso, Food Security Measurement Survey conducted in Mauritania, Micronutrient Survey and an end53

43

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------



research partnership established with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) on the use of FIES to monitor
children’s food insecurity;
 agreement to analyse with the World Bank FIES data with the Global Financial Inclusion Index data.
2016
 Prevalence estimates of food insecurity produced for 151 countries (2014 and 2015 data collection);
 analysis of FIES data and Global Financial Inclusion Index data in collaboration with the World Bank.
 Licenses to access the full GWP database awarded to eight independent researchers. Their results were
presented in various scientific events; several researchers submitted articles to reputable scientific journals.
2017
 Prevalence of food insecurity produced for 153 countries (based on 2014, 2015 and 2016 data collection)
 New call for proposals to award ten licenses to researchers to carry out analysis on links between food insecurity
and other development dimensions using the entire GWP data;
Output 4 -Strengthened capacity of governments and development partners to monitor and analyze food
insecurity and hunger and to assess impact of relevant policies, using FIES.
One of the objectives is the full transfer of the FIES methodology to countries and the inclusion of FIES into national
surveys, fostering its use by policy-and decision-makers.
2015
 A number of trainings were organized, totalling the participation of 29 national or sub regional organizations,
plus dedicated meetings to inform colleagues from FAO and the other Rome-based Agencies.
2016
 a number of trainings were conducted, totaling the participation of 30 national or sub regional organizations, plus
dedicated meetings to inform colleagues from FAO and Rome-based Agencies, including:
Technical missions to Germany (GIZ), Mexico, Indonesia, the UK and Pakistan
Workshop in Panama (18 Latin American countries)
Workshop at HQ with regional statisticians and food security officers from 4 FAO regional offices
Videoconference with Global Strategy country officers participating in workshop organized by FAO-RAP
Presentation at national workshop organized by the Brazilian National Statistics Bureau
Intensive remote technical assistance with national statistics offices in Seychelles
• Technical assistance provided to insert the FIES survey module in national surveys in Malawi and Burkina Faso
(with the World Bank Living Standard Measurement Study of LSMS), Cameroon (with UNICEF and the Ministry of
Health), Swaziland and Pakistan (with WFP), Kenya, Seychelles, St. Lucia, El Salvador, and the Dominican
Republic.
• Initiated development of a comprehensive e-learning course on the use of FIES
2017
• Webinar for FIRST officers
• Technical assistance to a minimum of 15 countries and five intergovernmental organizations in the analysis of food
security data, with emphasis on data resulting from the FIES inclusion in surveys;
• Finalization of the FIES e-learning course as well as Users Guide.
• Creation of several tutoring videos on analysis of FIES data
• Development of the capacity development materials on the VOHC webpage
Output 5 -Greater awareness and use of the FIES worldwide through advocacy, communication and partnership
initiatives.
The promotion of the FIES is at the heart of major corporate processes, in particular as part of FAO participation to the
monitoring framework for the SDGs.
2016

line survey for the National nutrition programme in Ethiopia. In Rwanda, the FIES is one indicator of food security to monitor the
national agricultural strategy, in South Africa, the FIES was used to monitor food security in a survey of the Kwu-Zulu Natal province,
a survey conducted among food bank users in Germany, and a food security survey in Scotland.

44

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

 2014-15 results informed the 2016 Regional Panorama reports. FIES-based estimates of food insecurity are
featured in the report for the Asia and the Pacific office (RAP) and the Latin America and Caribbean office (RLC)
reports, and are expected to be released soon by the Regional offices for Africa and North East and North Africa.
 video-conference presentation on the FIES in the context of SDG monitoring during a Global Strategy meeting
organized by the FAO Regional Office for the Asia and the Pacific (November 2016).
 Presentations were delivered to promote the understanding of the FIES among the scientific and policy-makers
communities: at the APPAM International Conference at the London School of Economics, at the 43th Committee
on World Food Security (CFS) plenary session,54 at a side event to the CFS 43th session, at the International
Conference on Agricultural Statistics, VII, October 26-28
 Organization of a CFS 43 side-event on Monitoring Food Security under the SDGs
 Several international organizations and institutions now use the FIES: WFP is including FIES in their food security
assessment surveys, the IPC is including the FIES in Chronic Food Security module, and the FIES is included in the
World Bank LSMS. The FIES is used to monitor GIZ projects in India, Kenya, Mali, Toto, Benin, Burkina Faso,
Cambodia and Ethiopia. USAID Feed the Future Initiative plans to use the FIES in its M&E framework, and so is the
World Bank for the Monitoring and Evaluation Framework of its Global Agriculture Food Security Programme.
• Launch of the Voices of the Hungry webpage with communication material, including videos, reports, learning
tools and other resources.
2017
• Mainstreaming the FIES: support countries worldwide in the application of the FIES and reporting about results, by
country governments, institutions, and CSOs.
• Publication of FIES results in FAO´s flagship SOFI publication
• Publication of FIES results by region in the 2017 Regional Panorama reports
• Publication of FIES results on the UN Statistical Commission SDG monitoring webpage
• Improvements and continual updates on the VoH webpage and FAO SDG 2 monitoring webpage
• Publication of invited manuscript in a special issue of the Global Food Security Journal on food security governance
in Latin America.

Lessons learned:
Given the growing demand from national institutions and development partners for training regarding the
FIES and the data analysis, the project needs to evaluate its capacity development activities and develop a
capacity development and communication strategy, as part of a wider FAO strategy for communication
and capacity development on monitoring the SGDs and communicating results.

Document entitled “Monitoring Food Security and Nutrition in Support of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development:
Taking Stock and Looking Ahead”, including sections on the Food Insecurity Experience Scale.
54

45

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

National Adaptation Plans - Climate-Smart Agriculture – FMM /GLO/110/MUL (baby 1)
Summary and Project Objectives: The project will enable FAO to initiate the development of a global
support programme to assist countries in developing preparedness for climate change, in particular through
countries’ medium to long-term perspective of agricultural sectors. This includes planning and budgeting
of adaptation actions and ensuring that the CSA approach is fully embedded in agricultural development
and investment planning. This project supports in particular the integration of agricultural sectors in the
NAP processes55.
The project focuses on the development of a global guidance on integrating agriculture into NAPs and the
provision of technical support and political advice in Malawi and Uganda to integrate agriculture into their
NAP. Additional awareness raising and capacity development activities are planned at regional level. The
project also contributes to support FAO’s participation and inputs in the UNFCCC processes and COP.
Project start date: August 2014
Contributes to: SO2, Output 2.2.2
Main 2016 results:
 The UNFCCC discussions benefited from FAO policy and technical advice, through inputs and advocacy
at SBSTA, COP 22, NAP Expo, LEG and CSA meetings;
 Strengthened FAO’s visibility, globally, regionally and nationally, as an agency that provides countries
with technical and financial support to formulate and implement National Adaptation Plans as an
instrument to implement the Nationally Determined Contributions.
 In Uganda, the Agriculture National Adaptation Plan approved by the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal
Industry and Fisheries (MAAIF) and validated by relevant stakeholders, opening the way to the final
validation and approval process;
 In Malawi, establishment of an interdisciplinary technical working group on the agricultural component
of NAP with representatives from all relevant ministries.
 Technical capacities of Malawi’s experts strengthened in IT, crop and climate sciences needed for
analyzing vulnerability to climate change in the agriculture sectors.
 Capacities of Kenya, Nepal, the Philippines, Thailand, Uganda, Uruguay, Viet Nam and Zambia
developed to integrate agriculture into NAP processes strengthened and of Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi,
Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe – to learn more on applying to the Green Climate Fund as a means of
meeting their NDC commitments related to agriculture.
 Built new partnerships on enhanced climate change ambition and action focusing on agriculture and
food security, in particular with the Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre, The Commission on genetic
resources for Food and Agriculture, the Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food
Security of the Consultative Group on International Agriculture Research, NDC Partnership, the
Parliamentary Forum for Climate Change, Parliamentary Food and Nutrition and Kulima Integrated
Development Solutions, a South African climate change research institution.

55

NAPs were established at COP 15. NAPs objectives are: (i) to reduce vulnerability to the impacts of climate change by building
adaptive capacity and resilience; and (ii) to facilitate the integration of climate change adaptation in a coherent manner.

46

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

Project log frame - Outcomes, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcomes: Agriculture is part of the national processes to develop NAPs and the climate-smart
approach is embedded in this medium to long-term planning process in many countries
Output 1. The required methodologies, approaches and guidelines for the development of an agriculture
component to NAPs have been developed and tested.
2015
• Prepared advanced draft of the agricultural supplement to the NAP-LEG guidance;
• gathered a body of knowledge of adaptation tools in the agricultural subsectors;
2016
• Text of the Supplementary Guidelines for Addressing Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in National
Adaptation Plans (“NAP-Ag Supplement”) finalized after FAO in-house consultations. Peer review launched.
• Supplementary Guidelines for addressing Fisheries and Aquaculture in National Adaptation Plans (NAP-Fish
Supplement) finalized.
2017
• Finalization of the main Supplementary Guidelines.
Output 2. UNFCCC agricultural negotiations benefit from FAO policy advice
2015
• participation of the FAO delegation to UNFCCC COP 21 supported (co-organized side and high-level events,
supported participation of FAO presence in about 60 events, etc.);
• concept note developed on Adaptation, NAPs, NAMAs and INDC for target countries, including Malawi and
Uganda to support fund applications to the GCF.
2016
 Submission C to the UNFCCC on “issues relating to agriculture: adaptation measures” drafted;
 Two side events organized for the UNFCCC SBSTA in collaboration with Rome based agencies in May: “Putting
Paris Agreement into practice: the changing climate finance landscape for agriculture” and “Agricultural Action
for Food Security Post COP212”;
 Contribution to the review and advocacy at SBSTA 44 (Global FAO INDC analysis for the agriculture sectors.);
 Report Climate change and food security: risks and responses launched at SBSTA 44;
 Joint session hosted at the NAP expo on “Establishing baselines for NAPs and scaling up adaptation action”
with UNDP, UNEP, The German Ministry for Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and nuclear safety,
GCF.
 Coordination of a 2 day joint FAO-CCAFS Agriculture Negotiators Workshop, as input prior to COP22;
 Support to the preparation of FAO UNFCCC COP 22 delegation;
 Participation in the LEG Meeting in Timor-Leste, presentation made on FAO’s work on climate change(March);
 Participation in the LEG Meeting in Liberia, presentation made on FAO’s work on climate change.(September);
 drafting of an FAO position paper in response to the Moroccan Adaptation of African Agriculture initiative
for the High Level meeting on AAA.
Additional technical assistance provided and contribution to policy papers
 Expertise provided to the discussion on Climate-Smart Agriculture and Disaster Risk Reduction with the Asia
Disaster Preparedness Centre.

 Policy paper Food and Nutrition Security Impact, Resilience Sustainability and Transformation, for the FIRST
Programme,
Output 3. Regional - Support FAO’s regional climate change officers to provide technical backstopping and link
countries’ efforts to the regional initiatives
2015

47

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

•

Supported governmental officials from Eastern and Southern African and Asian countries to attend the LEG
regional training workshop on NAPs;
• conducted a series of briefings on INDC, NAPs, bilateral climate finance and the GCF to FAO regional and
country offices;
• built capacities on NAPs and the agricultural sectors during the following workshops: (i) mobilizing investment
for Low-emission development in Asia’s agriculture sector-crop production and processing; (ii) the ASEANCRN workshop on scaling-up CSA; and (iii) regional workshop on country support to INDCs.
Output 4. Countries capacities to introduce agriculture into NAPs strengthened
2015 - In Malawi and Uganda
• Support provided to the Ministry of Agriculture to become part of the NAP Core Team and to identify
subsector focal points (2014-2015);
• a cross-sector NAP process and stocktaking for the agricultural sector (during 2014-2015) launched;
• national inception workshops organized, in Uganda to identify priorities in the agricultural sector to consider
in the NAP process, in Malawi to initiate the adaptation planning process;
Malawi (only)
• capacity building activities conducted to strengthen the country evidence base on potential impact of climate
change on agriculture. Experts trained on MOSAIC, analysis of climate variability and extreme weather events
from an agronomic perspective, and statistical downscaling of climate projections;
Uganda (only)
• capacity building conducted for local government officials (Luwero district – central Cattle corridor)56 on
implementing NAPs in planning processes and mainstreaming adaptation;
• supported governmental officials and participate in LEG regional training workshop on NAPs.
2016
Malawi
• Capacity of technical officers from academic institutions, Ministry of Agriculture, Irrigation and Water
Development (MoAIWAD) and the Department of Climate Change and Meteorological Services (DCCMS)
strengthened to engage in crop modelling and prepare crop scenarios;57
• Interdisciplinary technical working group established to discuss the agricultural component of the NAP,
including representatives from DCCMS, Department of Agriculture Planning Services (DAPS), Agriculture
Research Services (DARS), Land Resources Conservation Department (LRCD), and MAIWAD.
Uganda
• Draft of the agricultural sector NAP document ready for final validation and approval process after validation
by stakeholders from national institutions, academia, research institutions, civil society and private sector
and technical approval by the MAAIF.
Global and regional levels
• capacity development workshop “Integrating Agriculture into NAPs” to develop a common understanding
of the NAP process in relation to the agriculture sectors and to provide eight partner countries (including
Uganda) with training to advance country-level activities and work plans. Topics such as developing
roadmaps, skills development on adaptation sensitive planning, budgeting and impact assessment were
discussed. Trainings on the methodologies of risk and vulnerability assessments, economics of adaptation
and impact assessments on the agriculture sectors were carried out (April 2016);
• joint FAO and Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa(COMESA) capacity development workshop
“From agreement to action: Harnessing the Paris Agreement, INDCs and climate finance to deliver climatesmart agricultural development” attended by representatives of Ministries of Agriculture and Environment
from Ethiopia, Kenya, Malawi, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe – to learn more on applying to the Green
Climate Fund as a means of meeting their NDC commitments related to agriculture (July 2016);
Capacity development focused on local government technical teams as Uganda’s regulations devolve most natural resource
management and agricultural roles to the local level.
57
The activity is in collaboration with another FMM project - FMM/GLO/112/MUL.
56

48

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

•
•
•

•

Development and conduct of Online Webinar on Economics of Adaptation (October 2016);
Development and conduct of Online Webinar on Mainstreaming gender in climate change adaptation
planning for the agriculture sectors (December 2016);
NAP-Ag Platform for Country Exchange launched. The platform serves as the main hub for knowledge
exchange and information between partner country national coordinators, global NAP team and technical
experts from UNDP and FAO related to integration of agriculture in NAPs. June 2016
Support provided to target countries that have request FAO support on Green Climate Funds available for
NAP Readiness.

Lesson learned:
The changing UNFCC landscape (Paris Agreement, Marrakesh Climate Initiative) has led to increased
expectations about the formulation, implementation and reporting of climate action and finance.
In this context, this project has been instrumental to further define how FAO can support countries on
medium to long-term policy, adaptation planning and budgetary aspects. Lessons learned include:
(i) countries need capacity development within their institutions to address climate change in a more
comprehensive way; (ii) given the political nature of the process, strong political will and leadership is a
necessary condition to ensure buy-in into the NAP process by main stakeholders; and (iii) it takes time to
influence policies and reach agreement among different parties. Financial incentives for the NAP process,
or an indication of allocated national resources and plans for raising additional funds should be developed
at the beginning of the process.
The project was slowed down in Malawi in 2016 mainly due to a lack of staff in the administration and lack
of understanding /knowledge of the reasons for adaptation. FAO has hired a consultant to continue the
dialogue with the administration, inform on the importance of adaptation and understand needs, in
particular the change of focal department in the MoAIWD, to speed up the project implementation.
One of the constraints is the fact that the UNFCCC focal point is usually not within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry and effective and efficient mechanisms need to be established by the
focal point to share information with and secure input from all relevant stakeholders, which are not always
in place. Similarly, with regard to climate finance, the National Designated Authority (NDA) is not usually
within the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry.
At global level, there is a need to harmonize and provide methodological guidelines for reporting on
progress on adaptation if progress towards the global adaptation goal is to be aggregated across countries.
At the moment, no standard reporting templates or methodology exists and there is some ambiguity as to
what they report on.

49

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Sustainable Food and Agriculture – FMM/GLO/110/MUL (baby 2)
Summary and Project Objectives: FAO has developed a vision to address sustainable development in
agriculture, forestry and fisheries. This vision, entitled “Sustainable Food and Agriculture,” provides a
common platform and a set of principles for integration of sustainability work in the different subsectors,
and offers ways to explicitly address the trade-offs and synergies that are associated with sustainability. It
proposes to adopt a multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary and multi stakeholder approach.
This project applies these principles in three countries (Bangladesh, Morocco and Rwanda) by:
• supporting these countries in their efforts to assess key sustainability issues and address these in an
integrated way through adapting agricultural and natural resource governance and practices;
• further streamlining and mainstreaming multi-sectoral, multidisciplinary and multi stakeholder
approaches (that address and balance the key dimensions of social, economic, environmental,
resilience and governance) on sustainability.
Project start date: November 2014
The project contributes to: Strategic Objective 2, Outputs 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.2.1, and 2.2.2.
Main 2016 results:
Rwanda:
• Cross-sectoral coordination further strengthened through the multi-sector Task force on sustainable
agriculture and natural resources co-chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry in charge
of natural resources (facilitated by FAO). The task force will contribute to the national agro-forestry
strategy preparation.
• High Level discussions initiated to identify key areas of work where the SFA approach can be used to
implement Agenda 2030 in food and agriculture.
• Project launched to pilot an integrated landscape approach on the Rulindo district, as an example of
the implementation of SFA on the ground.
• Capacities of small holder’s farmers strengthened in diversification of their production and training on
tree nurseries, through the establishment of 10 Farmers Field Schools in Rulindo district. This activity is
co-funded with the Forest and Land Restoration (FLR) Programme.
Bangladesh
• Action plan designed to implement SFA at country level, aligned with the country’s SDG implementation
planning processes.
Morocco
• Cross-sectoral coordination strengthened through the establishment of a cross-sectoral platform
including the Ministry in charge of forest and natural resources, the Agriculture Ministry and the
Planning administration.
• Assessment of key cross-sectoral sustainability issues at national level finalized and validated in high
level event.
• Analysis of sectoral policies and their effects launched to understand areas for synergies and trade-offs.
• Multi-stakeholder process launched in the Souss Massa region to better understand how to address
sustainability issues, and investigate ways to implement sustainable practices for food and agriculture
and the trade-offs management of competitive sectoral policies.

50

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Project log frame - Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: Stakeholders in target countries have strengthened capacities and put governance processes
in place to make progress in transitioning towards more sustainable agriculture, related experience and
knowledge is compiled and available to be shared globally.
Output 1. Assessment of key issues of sustainability (status, trends, outlook) developed by national institutions
supported by FAO in Bangladesh, Morocco, Rwanda
Rwanda: SFA was launched in Rwanda in June 2014, as part of a partnership between FAO and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Animal resources (MINAGRI)
2015
• Challenges, priority sustainability issues and possible ways forward to implement SFA identified during a joint
MINAGRI/MINIRENA workshop with a broad group of stakeholders. This led to the organization of the crosssectoral policy dialogue workshop presented under Output 2. Interactions between agriculture and natural
resources sectors have been reinforced and supported by closer collaboration with FAO’s FLR.
Bangladesh: Further to the SFA launch in June 2014, an assessment of main challenges to sustainability of food
and agriculture was conducted. The main sustainability issues were identified in Northern Bangladesh where
climate change predicts more variable rainfall, and rising temperatures.
2015
• Field mission to the north-western part of the country to raise awareness of local stakeholders, and identify
the most critical sustainability issues to be addressed in the region;
• assessment study on soil status (considered most critical);
• small pilot activities commissioned with the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute on mung bean for soil
fertility enhancement and linked to innovative nutrition practices.
2016
• Support to identifying and addressing data gaps related to SDG indicators in agricultural sectors, including
support for developing base line surveys for missing data.
Morocco: Launched in July 2014, the SFA led to the establishment of a cross-sectoral working group involving focal
points from various Ministries and Agencies which serves as the steering committee for SFA and is used as a
platform of dialogue on cross-sectoral concerns.
2016
• Assessment of key cross-sectoral sustainability issues finalized and validated in high level event (January
2017). It is based on bibliography, key stakeholders’ interviews and an online survey. The recommendations
are currently being implemented.
Output 2. Policy recommendations and action plans developed through multisector policy dialogue to make
progress towards sustainability of food and agriculture in Bangladesh, Morocco and Rwanda
Rwanda
2015
• Cross-sectoral policy dialogue workshop “Towards a Coordinated Action for Sustainable Agriculture and
Restored Forests and Landscapes”: (i) to build a common vision with stakeholders from the agricultural and
natural resources sector; (ii) to analyze trade-offs and policy gaps; and (iii) plan ways to better align policies
and programmes in agriculture and environment;
• set up of a cross-sector task force to foster improved collaboration across agriculture and natural resources
at national level. The subnational dialogue will focus on the Rulindo district;
• capacity of high-level national stakeholders, Permanent Secretary for Agriculture, on cross-sectoral
sustainability issues enhanced through participation in Council side-events and technical meetings;
• policy recommendations aimed at increasing the effectiveness of natural resource policies and programmes,
including better dialogue with key sectors impacting natural resources drafted and presented to the Minister
of Natural Resources;

51

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

•

action plan developed covering the following themes: (i) transformation of the enabling environment;
(ii) capacity development and extension; (iii) finance; (iv) monitoring; (v) implementation on pilot sites;
(vi) cross-sectoral coordination; and (vii) towards productive and restored landscapes.
2016
• Cross-sectoral coordination strengthened through the multi-sector Task force on sustainable agriculture and
natural resources co-chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry in charge of natural resources.
At its 7th meeting (January 2017), the Task force agreed to contribute to the agro-forestry strategy
preparation.
• The task force has been recognized by both ministries as a support body for addressing cross-sectoral issues
and discussing trade-offs. Terms of Reference were adapted to better address the government request for
advice on cross sectoral issues (for ex, Agroforestry)
• A High-Level Policy Dialogue: “Towards productive, sustainable and inclusive agriculture, forestry and
fisheries in support to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” (September 2016) organized to bring
policy makers on the same level of understanding and identify key areas of work to use the SFA Approach to
implement Agenda 2030 in Food and Agriculture. Policy support work initiated to link SFA country piloting to
the policy environment and in particular to the Green Growth and Climate resilience strategy.
• Capacity of Rulindo District vice-mayor in charge of economic affairs on approaches to manage cross-sectoral
sustainability issues enhanced through his participation to FAO international expert workshop on
“Implementing Agenda 2030 in Food and Agriculture: Processes and approaches in support of cross-sectoral
coordination at country level” (Rome, July 2016).
 LOA signed with the World Agroforestry Centre (ICRAF) to jointly support the preparation of the agro-forestry
strategy and action plan as requested by both Ministry of environment and agriculture.
 Project to pilot an integrated landscape approach launched in the Rulindo District with Task Force on
sustainable agriculture and natural resources (advising role), Rulindo district administration (leading) and FAO
(technical support). This project is a practical example of the implementation of SFA on the ground. It will
develop innovative ways to integrate work on forest and landscape restoration, sustainable crop
intensification, integrated crop-livestock systems, agro-forestry, sustainable food value chains, FFS, nutritionsensitive agriculture, social protection. One key outcome will be to inform the revision of the district
development plan and performance objectives for food and agriculture.
 TCP for developing Small-Scale Irrigation Technologies in a sustainable manner developed and being
implemented.
 Proposal developed for the preparation of a seed strategy and action plan. Funds are being sought.
 10 FFS organized and capacities of small holder’s farmers strengthened in diversification of their production
(focus on vegetable and mushroom production) and training on tree nurseries, in Rulindo district. This activity
is co-funded with the Forest and Land Restoration (FLR) Programme.
Bangladesh: SFA was launched in 2014.
2015
• Concept note “Smart farms: Integrated Climate-Smart Agriculture in Northern Bangladesh”, to address issues
identified by stakeholders in an integrated way submitted to the governmental GEF focal point, and endorsed;
• Development of a proposal on climate smart agriculture for funding under GEF.
2016
 Action plan designed to implement SFA at country level with a proposal for a two-level intervention: a policy
level work to support policy dialogues on key sustainability issues identified in the preliminary assessment
phase and refine the assessment linking the work to SDGs work; a field level phase to look at ways to
implement sustainable and climate smart food and agriculture at field level.
 An exploration mission to refine the scope of the work organized in November 2016, resulting in alignment
of SFA work with the country’s SDG implementation planning processes.
 National coordination platform (“Local Consultative Group”) meeting on SDG implementation organized.
2017

52

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

•

•

Support to planning implementation of SDGs in agricultural sectors using SFA principles, coordinated through
an existing cross-sectoral mechanism involving relevant ministries and development partners (“Local
Consultative Group”)
Support to Bangladesh’s voluntary national report on SDGs 2017.

Morocco:
 Cross-sectoral coordination strengthened through the establishment of a cross-sectoral platform including
the Ministry in charge of forest and natural resources, the Agriculture Ministry and the Planning
administration. The platform initiated to guide and advise the assessment work has become a group of
champions for the SFA vision and principles.
 A policy level activity initiated to investigate areas for synergies and trade-offs looking at the multiple sectoral
policies (food, agriculture, crop, forestry, fishery, livestock, natural resources, employment, and nutrition)
and strategies and understand the implications on the ground. Design of a methodology for analyzing sectoral
policies and their effects. Preliminary results expected in June 2017.
 Launch of a multi-stakeholder dialogue process in the Souss Massa region to refine the understanding of how
to address sustainability issues identified at national level, and investigate ways to implement sustainable
practices for food and agriculture and the trade-offs management of competitive sectoral policies. Work led
by the regional directorate, guided by a regional cross-sectoral Task Force (similar composition to the one
existing at national level). Preliminary results expected end of 2017 will inform the implementation of the
regional development plan for the food and agriculture sectors.

Lessons learned:
The three pilots are constantly informing FAO on what works well and where improvements need to be
made with the Sustainable Food and Agriculture approach. The pilots will inform the FAO guidelines on SGD
implementation through SFA currently under preparation.
In 2017, FAO will undertake a thorough evaluation of the pilots. On this basis, the SFA framework could be
scaled-up as a systematic approach to sustainability in a large number of countries. Amongst the main
lessons-learned so far are: the success of cross-sectoral coordination, the importance of working crossstrategic objectives both at policy and field level, the need for both to work at national policy level and field
level simultaneously, the potential offered by SFA to move towards a more programmatic approach. The
project also showed the potential of Agenda 2030 as an entry point for more coordinated action.

53

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

An integrated approach for sustainable agricultural intensification through resource use efficiency FMM/GLO/112/MUL (baby 1) - Burundi component
Summary and Project Objectives: With a growing population, limited space for agricultural expansion,
increased scarcity of natural resources and land degradation, the sustainable intensification of agriculture
in Burundi relies on a more efficient use of natural resources58.
The project pilots an innovative approach which consists of introducing and integrating multiple techniques
for efficient production in the same community within a single watershed. Activities are implemented in
three watersheds in the communities of Mwaro and Ngozi.
The project focuses on developing the capacities of the local community to intensify and diversify
production systems and manage resources sustainably. The FFS approach is used to implement all activities,
which primarily focuses on integrated land management, integrated fish and livestock production and more
efficient horticulture techniques. The project brings together good practices from diverse sectors yielding
synergies and a cumulative impact greater than the sum of its constituent parts.
Project start dates: July 2014. Project activities ended in July 2016.
Contributes to: SO2, Outputs 2.1.1 and 2.1.3
Main project’s results (including 2016):
• Methodology of introducing multiple, integrated production techniques within one community through
the FFS approach has been tested and proved successful. It has a strong potential for scale up and
replication in similar agronomic settings, in Burundi and other countries;
• the integration of the various practices led to: (i) reduced erosion; (ii) higher agricultural, fish and
livestock production; (iv) new income generating activities; and (v) more diversified food production,
improving the lives and livelihoods of 1 500 farmers.
Project log frame–Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015& 2016)
Project Outcomes: Food security and nutrition, livelihoods and natural resource management were improved
through the establishment of 40 FFS directly building capacities in sustainable agriculture production of about
1 200 farmers in the communities of Mwaro and Ngozi
Output 1. Around300 hectares of watershed stabilized through integrated land management practices
2015
• soil protection techniques reduced erosion which led to higher production as the crops were not destroyed
by floods, thereby encouraging investment in improved deed varieties;
• identification and mapping of three small watersheds by the community clearly defined the landscapes for
the intervention and future community planning;
• land owners’ capacity developed through FFS in sustainable land management practices to reduce
deforestation and conduct farming for erosion control (agroforestry and contour planting). Farmers used the
same trees and grasses to control erosion and provide forage for goats thereby combining these separate
activities to maximize space and reduce labor;
• bamboo planted along the riverbanks to hold soil; more than 49 000 fruit trees interplanted with field crops.
2016
58

In Burundi, land holdings are small with on average 0.5 ha cultivated per family.

54

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

•

2015 activities continued, i.e. more bamboo planted along the riverbanks to hold soil, and fruit trees
propagated by the FFS to interplant with field crops
Output 2. Small animal and fish production strengthened to enrich the protein source, and integrated with crop
production using the Farmer Field School Approach.
2015
• Integrated livestock, aquaculture and agriculture systems were adopted which offer the opportunity to
produce multiple products and services from a single small area, while at the same time increasing the
availability of protein rich foods. The impact for the 1 200 direct beneficiaries was increased agricultural
production and income generation opportunities;
• four integrated fishponds with small livestock were developed (Mwaro) and quality fish feed and fish seed
were introduced to the ponds;
• FFS members were trained to build piggeries and chicken houses in connection with the ponds so that animal
manure would fertilize the pond yielding faster fish growth while reducing feed requirements;
• FFS members trained in good management practices for pigs, chickens and goats. Capacity building provided
to 85 households in goat breeding and goat husbandry, 255 goats, including 23 improved Boer males
distributed contributing to the genetic improvement of livestock as per national strategy.
2016
• A well-anchored goat production system for meat, milk and income;
• capacity of veterinarians developed through training and distribution of “goat kits”;
• the first generation of goats bred and distributed by the community to the most vulnerable households
through a “chain of solidarity” already in place. The effect is multifold: (i) the goats strengthen community
structure and provide a social safety net; (ii) the number of direct beneficiaries is increased from 85
households to about 200 households; and (iii) the longevity of the goat breeding programme is supported.
Output 3. Agriculture production diversified and ameliorated, including mushroom culture, to increase the
access to foods rich in vitamins and micronutrients and diversify income sources
2015 and 2016
• FFS farmers trained in the proper use of mineral fertilizers and improved seeds of the staple crops, notably
maize. Maize yields tripled in one of the FFS, documented by community-based research. Varieties of these
crops, as well as bananas and fruit trees, were chosen by the FFS based upon resistance, yield and nutrition
value through a partnership with the Burundian Institute for Agricultural Sciences.
• FFS farmers trained in mycoculture using agriculture residue as substrate;
• conservation infrastructures constructed to retain horticultural production (onions and potatoes) until the
dry season to secure food access and improve the sale price for the farmers;
• micro gardens introduced in rural, urban and peri-urban areas that support compact farming where space is
limited by using recycled materials and three-dimensional structure.
Output 4. Farmers technical capacity and self-management are strengthened through the FFS

2015
40 new FFS established to strengthen capacity to manage the landscape of the communities. Each activity is
based on community decision-making, beneficiary training and capacity development.
2016
• Study tours organized for farmers and FFS practitioners from different areas to observe interventions in
different areas and encourage dialogue amongst farmers.
Output 5. Projects results are disseminated
•

2016
• several tools produced including radio broadcasts, a documentary film, posters, roll-up and a brochure.

55

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

•

State actors, including provincial and communal administration and decentralized services of the Ministry of
Agriculture, informed of the work carried out by the project and involved in capacity-building sessions.

Lessons learned
Ensuring project’s sustainability requires additional resources and longer implementation periods. Due to
time and financial constraints, it was not possible to build infrastructures for the storage and marketing of
market gardening seeds, weaning meal, horticultural products, edible mushrooms, and lick blocks,
produced by the Nyabihanga and Kayokwe cooperatives. They would have ensured a certain sustainability
of the activities of the beneficiaries. Moreover, the time allocated to the project did not enable the
beneficiaries to fully master the many technological innovations introduced within the framework of the
project.

56

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

An integrated approach to sustainable intensification of agriculture through an efficient use of
resources - FMM/GLO/112/MUL (baby 1) – the Niger component
Summary and Project Objectives: Today, agricultural growth is increasingly determined by the institutional,
managerial and organizational performance of farmers’ organizations and agricultural service providers and
their capacity to provide high quality and efficient services to their members or recipients, to address
upcoming challenges and take up opportunities.
The project focuses on strengthening the institutional, managerial and organizational capacities of
eight Nigerien farmer federations and their Confederation Gatanci for better services to their members, a
better management of their economic activities and an improvement of the use of a guarantee fund to
upscale investments and economic activities. Established in 2013, the Guarantee Fund is the first financial
mechanism in the Niger which shields credit institutions from risk and encourage lending to farmers and
their organizations59. It is located at Ecobank.
The project pilots an organizational development approach based on the concept of resource use efficiency.
Farmer federations were introduced to the importance and concept of resource use efficiency for the
performance and achievements of their organizations. They assessed various aspects of their organizations,
developed their own priority plans of action and their own plan for organizational development and
performance. Progress is monitored and plans are adjusted along the way. The scaling up potential of the
approach will be assessed at the end of the project.
Project start date: July 2014. Project start dates ended in July 2016
The project contributes to: Strategic Objective 2, Output 2.3.1.
Main projects results (including the 2016 results):
 Governance of eight farmers’ organizations and Gatanci improved thanks to the development or
improvement of their administrative and financial procedures.
 Capacities of eight farmers’ federations strengthened to manage economic activities and investments
(marketing/sales of agricultural products, input purchases, etc.) and develop and implement business
plans. This was achieved through trainings tailored to each federation.
 Gatanci’s capacity strengthened through the establishment of its first action plan to support its eightmember organizations. Services to members are better defined and provided. Gatanci skills in
managing the Guarantee fund and in negotiating with Ecobank are strengthened, leading to successful
negotiations on fees, interest rates and deadlines for repayment.
 Agreement reached on the improvement of the functioning of the Guarantee Fund and the review and
agreements of federations’ loan applications by Ecobank.
Project log frame - Outcomes, outputs, activities conducted (2015& 2016)
Project Outcomes. The organizational, institutional and managerial efficiency of eight farmer federations and
their Confederation GATANCI, representing 176 000 farmers, is strengthened, resulting in better services to
their members and in better management of their organizations and investment projects.
Output 1. Development of a conceptual framework on organizational development and resource use efficiency
2015
59

Created under the “Intensification de l’agriculture par le renforcement des boutiques d’intrants Coopératives” project.

57

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

•

A generic conceptual framework on institutional, organizational and managerial capacity development and
performance designed and discussed with main stakeholders using the concept of resource use efficiency.
Output 2. Definition of the Federations’ action plans to improve their performance
2015
• Assessment of the institutional, organizational and managerial capacities of eight farmer federations and
Gatanci carried out;
• action plans to improve the performance of each federation developed (definition of resource gains) and
tools to monitor progress designed and field tested. Areas identified for improvement: (i) governance; (ii)
human resource management, financial analysis and management, book keeping, rules and regulations; (iii)
developing partnerships60. Plans of the farmer federations included also among other activities: marketing of
seeds and of harvest production. Gatanci concentrated on negotiations with Ecobank, access to credit and
improvement of its administrative and financial procedures;
• organizational development support process to the federations defined and validated.
2016
• Follow-up and review of the implementation of the priority action plans of the federations and Gatanci.
Output 3. Improvement of eight federations and Gatanci governance and capacity to manage investment
projects (implementation of the action plans)
2015
• Improvement of the administrative and financial procedures of five farmer federations;
• development of four manuals of administrative and financial procedures for three federations and Gatanci;
• capacities related to the management of economic activities (marketing/sales of agricultural products, input
purchase, etc.) of each of the eight Federations and the role of Gatanci assessed. Analysis of federations’
business plans conducted. Activities conducted by CARE international;
• federations and Gatanci advised on monitoring the status of the guarantee fund implementation and on
negotiating with Ecobank. Gatanci successfully negotiated with Ecobank the removal of a one percent fee on
the issuance of guarantee letter, deadlines for loan repayment of three federations, removal or lowering of
interests on delayed loan repayments, delays reduction on answers to credit requests;
• Gatanci mandate clarified on support to the federations regarding the guarantee fund;
• to improve services of the federations to their member organizations, two farmers’ representatives trained
in the FFS Approach through collaboration with the GEF project.
2016
• Finalization of nine manuals for the administrative and financial procedures for each of the 8 farmers’
federations and GATANCI (manuals of 5 federations were substantially reviewed; manuals of 3 federations
and Gatanci were developed). They were handed over during the capitalization workshop.
• Eight training modules regarding the economic activities, business plans, etc. conceptualized and validated
responding specifically to the needs of each federation and of Gatanci (Care International);
• Tailored 3-day trainings based on the 8 modules delivered to each federation and Gatanci (Care International).
• Agreement reached on how to improve the review and agreement of federations’ loan applications by
Ecobank. Agreement was to: create a framework for regular exchanges between Ecobank and the federations;
better involvement of Ecobank local branches to advice federations; endorsement of loan application
packages by Gatanci establishing a Committee for this purpose; delays by Ecobank to be avoided as the
guaranty fund deposit allows frequent financing activities of federations.
• Agreement reached on the improvement of the functioning of the Guarantee Fund with FAO’s facilitation. It
includes: 1) Revising the Convention between Ecobank and Gatanci to clarify each parties’ responsibilities; 2)
Improving communication between the parties, particularly through the Comité de suivi; Concerted
communication by Gatanci and its federations towards Ecobank; Ecobank to organize training sessions for
60

Given financial constraints, of the project had to focus on a few support activities: guarantee fund, business plans and manuals for
administrative and financial procedures to improve governance.

58

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

Gatanci federations on topics such as the functioning of a bank, the establishment and management of a
credit transaction etc.; 3) Correspondence between Ecobank and federations to be copied to Gatanci. All
annual activity reports of the federations should to be submitted to Gatanci
Output 4. The understanding and consideration of aspects of institutional and organizational
efficiency/effectiveness in agricultural development are improved based on political dialogue.
2016
• The Secretary General of the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock, the High Commissioner of 3N Initiative
(Les Nigériens Nourrissent les Nigériens) and several donors briefed on the importance of strengthening the
organizational, institutional and managerial efficiency of farmers’ organizations (June 2016)
Output 5. The experience in the Niger is documented and a strategy for up scaling is developed.
2016
 capitalization workshop organized to discuss lessons learned and requirements and needs to ensure better
mobilization and effective and efficient resources uses at Gatanci and its members. It was attended by the
Director of the Direction de l’Action Coopérative et de la Promotion des Organismes Ruraux (DAC/POR) of the
Ministry of Agriculture and nine staff members to share their experience on the promotion and the
organizational, institutional and managerial development of rural organizations.
 SWOT and reflective analyses carried out by the federations and GATANCI and lessons learned formulated.

Lessons learned
The concept of efficiency gains and organizational development approach are complex and require the
active participation of the people concerned and time for the farmers’ organizations to assimilate these
new approaches. A longer duration to introduce the new approaches and consolidate the results within the
farmers’ organizations is needed.
The federations achieved efficiency gains at a varying degree due to their different initial capacities, their
different socio-economic environments, their specific challenges and priorities. This requires a more
differentiated approach, e.g. in support for monitoring or regarding use of credit, and additional support in
terms of training and follow-up for the smaller, weaker organizations that need additional assistance.
Most of the federations do not have the capacities and resources, and at time the interest, to effectively
involve their member organizations in governance and programmes. Most of the member organizations at
the grassroots level are neither in the position to fully participate and shape the federations. This requires
a more bottom up approach which strengthens the farmers’ organizations on the ground and through them
dynamizing the federations.
The weaker federations need also support in marketing their produce, for example by establishing links and
trade exchanges between farmers’ organizations in the sub-region and by undertaking market studies to
achieve more concrete success cases which would encourage the other farmers’ organizations to scale up
their businesses instead of primarily hoping for donor funding.
The unit responsible for the oversight and promotion of farmers’ organizations in the Ministry of Agriculture
was the main partner. It has successfully established and chaired the Comité de Suivi for the guarantee
fund, but more involvement at the decentralized level would be required to strengthen farmers’
organizations. This would require introducing its staff into new approaches and tools to undertake this task
more effectively.

59

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

A future project should also support other partners and service providers to promote farmers’ organizations
and their business activities. Leading farmers which have expertise in credit, business, etc. need to be given
a more central role in training other farmers’ organizations.

60

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Building the basis for scaling up CSA – FMM/GLO/112/MUL (Baby 2)
Summary and Project Objectives: The project will contribute to increasing food security for smallholder
producers in southern Africa via greater stability of agricultural production and incomes, while reducing
greenhouse gas emissions growth vis-à-vis a conventional growth strategy.
The project supports the achievements of these objectives by providing an extended evidence base
necessary to identify the set of packages most appropriate for adopting CSA solutions including crop, trees,
shrubs and other agroforestry related options and livestock practices61. Part of the project focuses on
understanding the trade-offs and synergies between crop diversification and livestock intensification
strategies under climate change, and barriers and drivers of adoption. A strong evidence base will
contribute to countries’ capacity to select suitable CSA options and develop the institutional and policy
frameworks necessary to support them.
Contributes to: SO2, Outputs 2.1.2.
Project start date: December 2014.
Main 2016 results:62













Capacity of 10 technical officers from Malawi ministries, meteorological services, and universities to
analyze climatic data and elaborate climatic and crop projections strengthened;63
Capacity of 20 technical officers from Zambia to conduct climate analysis strengthened.
Initial field research results produced on the availability and suitability of green manure and leguminous
cover crops and forages in different agro-ecologies of Malawi and Zambia.
strong evidence base in Zambia on potential options for improving livestock productivity, and climate
change adaptation and mitigation available;
various socio-economic analysis of impact of different agricultural solutions under climate change
conducted in both countries;
Experience and evidence from the project included in the development of the revised version of the
Climate Smart Agriculture Sourcebook.
results from evidence are feeding into key policy processes such as the REDD+ in Zambia and the INDC
for Zambia and Malawi.

The project builds on results of the FAO programme “Economics and Policy Innovations for Climate-Smart Agriculture (EPIC)”
- funded by European Union (www.fao.org/climatechange/epic). The FMM resources are used to maintain the momentum and
deepen work under the European Union-funded initiative.
62 Activities in Vietnam were not pursued to focus the limited resources on activities in Malawi and Zambia where the project could
have more impact on national policies.
63 Based on FAO’s MOSAICC system which provides precise information on the medium to long term impacts of climate change on
agriculture.
61

61

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Project log frame – Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: Smallholder producers in southern Africa and Viet Nam adopt climate-smart crop and livestock
production practices
Output 1. Evidence base for CSA and livestock intensification strategies is expanded in Malawi, Viet Nam and Zambia
1. Analysis of climate variability and impact of climate change on agriculture using MOSAICC 64
2015
• Malawi, Viet Nam, Zambia: assessment of available data and expertise and related needs;
• Malawi, Zambia: preparatory work done (partner identification, stock taking of existing data, data collection, server
procurement, technical working group set-up, study design and work plan agreed);
• Malawi: 10 country experts trained on MOSAIC, analysis of climate variability and extreme weather events from
an agronomic perspective, and statistical downscaling of climate projections;
• Viet Nam: needs and details of climate variability analysis and training discussed.
2016
• Malawi: climate variability analysis and climate and crop production projections conducted;
• Malawi: 10 country experts trained to use the information technology (Linux, GIS, etc.) required to manage the
MOSAICC modelling system and in crop modelling for making projections of crop yields under climate change
scenarios. The experts are now conducting simulations to produce technical reports to be published in 2017.
• Zambia: 20 technical staff from universities, ministries and meteorological services trained in analysis of climate
variability and extreme weather events from an agronomic perspective, and statistical downscaling of climate
projections; the analysis produced will be used to produce crop models and crop yields projections for 2017.
2017
 Analysis and crop yields projections to be produced in Malawi and Zambia.
2. Screening of availability and suitability of leguminous cover crops and forages (Malawi and Zambia)
2015
• Literature review on the Suitability of Leguminous Cover and Forage Crops for Southern African and
Viet Namese Production Systems produced.
• Screening of the availability and suitability of green manure and leguminous cover crops conducted through farmer
field research (mother trials) by the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (CIMMYT).
2016
• farmer field research described above pursed (300 baby trials) conducted by the CIMMYT, national research and
extension bodies and the Ministry of Agriculture of both countries.
2017
 Continued awareness raising and out-scaling of green manure cover crops (GMCC) in different agro-ecologies of
Malawi and Zambia.
3. Analysis of potential for improving productivity, resilience and mitigation for livestock
production intensification options
2015
• Malawi and Zambia: stocktaking of information, data and resources needed and available to analyze potential for
livestock intensification conducted;
• Zambia: assessment of interannual variability in biomass availability for livestock feed and impact on animal
production; assessment of potential for improving livestock production and productivity and reducing emissions65;
• analysis of income variability at household level to assess adaptation options where synergies with mitigation
opportunities could be achieved.
Modelling System for Agricultural Impacts of Climate Change: system of models and utilities designed to carry out
inter- disciplinary climate change impact assessment on agriculture through simulations
65 Using the Global Livestock Environmental Assessment Model.
64

62

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

2016
• Zambia: modelling framework to analyze the role of livestock in building resilience to climate change developed
(model based on a detailed spatial description of livestock requirements, diet composition and feed
availability/deficit). Results presented at the international Greenhouse Gas and Animal Agriculture conference
(Australia) and at the GEOGLAM-RAPP workshop (South Africa).
• Zambia: LoA established with the University of Zambia to implement field trials to build an evidence base of
practices leading to a better integration between crop and livestock. The trials will evaluate how the use of legume
cover crops can maximize co-benefits by improving soil fertility and supplementing the animal diet. Specific
combinations of legumes and grasses will be identified to enhance crop productivity and animal performance.
• Malawi: modelling framework developed. Ongoing collaboration with FAO Agricultural Development Economics
Division (ESA) to analyze the contribution of livestock to economic resilience at household level (using the Rural
Agricultural Census Survey) and to build scenarios of natural biomass availability under climate change.
Collaboration with NRC will improve scenarios of climate change impact by integrating country level climate data
and modelling of impact on natural vegetation and forage base.
4. Socio-economic analysis of impact of different agricultural solutions under climate change
2015
• Preliminary qualitative and quantitative analysis of impact on adaptation, on agricultural production and
productivity and on other key socio-economic indicators conducted for Malawi66;
• acquisition of a nationally representative panel data set socio-economic indicators as well as detailed agriculture
and sustainability indicators of identified CSA options at household level for Zambia67;
• acquisition of data on biomass related to deforestation and forest degradation by districts for Zambia;
• analysis of drivers and barriers to CSA options’ adoption (Northern Mountainous region, Viet Nam) completed.
2016
Malawi
• analysis of the linkages, synergies and trade-off of the Fertilizer Input Subsidy Programme finalized and CSA options
identified;
• data from the community survey carried out by E4C, the new round of World Bank survey, analyzed and follow up
survey designed and planed for the impact assessment of Good Agricultural Practices adoption for a better
understanding of the impacts and the drivers and barriers of adoption of CSA solutions;
• research on the role of social safety nets and CSA as tools to adapt to climate change finalized.
Zambia
 Data from the nationally representative survey carried out by Indaba Agricultural Policy Research Institute (IAPRI)
analyzed for a better understanding of the impacts and the drivers and barriers of adoption of CSA solutions;
 Research on the role and drivers of deforestation on food security, adaptation and mitigation finalized;
 Impact assessment and livestock-crop systems of El Nino initiated in partnership with IAPRI.
2017
 Finalize analysis of data from the El Nino Impact Assessment in Zambia and present the results of the project to
national stakeholders
Output 2. CSA evidence provided is channeled into major policy processes at country and regional level to support
suitable and effective transition towards CSA adoption
2015
• Key issues to address and knowledge, evidence and expertise to expand identified through consultations;
• Formulation of a country strategic framework for investment on CSA for investment proposals and policy
formulations. Some proposals have already been funded (i.e. the IAP in Malawi with IFAD);
• Policy dialogue established in all three countries. A national workshop was organized in each country.
2016

66
67

Baseline data was acquired in relation to the Sustainable Agriculture Production Programme funded by IFAD.
This work was conducted in collaboration with the Indaba Agriculture Policy Research Centre.

63

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

 Contacts established by policy platform such as the African Climate Smart Alliance, Global Research Alliance for
Greenhouse gas emissions in Agriculture and the Global Agenda for Sustainable Livestock.
• Technical support provided in the organization and implementation of a Training Workshop on CSA, in partnership
with the Africa CSA Alliance, Zambia, November 2016.
2017
 Finalize a study on potential interventions concerning deforestation and forest degradation in Zambia over the
period 2015-2022 in the context of the REDD+
 Present the results of the project to national policy makers involved in key processes e.g. National Adaptation
planning and REDD+

Lessons learned:
Building a robust evidence base takes time and resources which should be properly taken into consideration
during the project design phase. In 2016, the main challenges consisted in late rainfall and dry-spells due
to El Niño at the beginning of the cropping season which threatened the field trials. Some other challenges
in implementation consisted in the difficult availability of stable electricity and internet connection to carry
out MOSAICC trainings.

64

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

Climate-smart agroforestry systems for the Dry Corridor of Central America – FMM/GLO/112/MUL
(Baby 3)
Summary and Project Objectives: The objective of the project is to support the up scaling of the Kuxur rum
and Quesungual systems and sustainable natural resources management practices in the Dry corridor of
Guatemala and Honduras. These two farming systems based on traditional knowledge have proven to be
good options to increase productivity, improve soil and water conservation and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions. Practices have so far been analyzed and assessed and are now implemented at a larger scale
through the project. The project also introduces complementary practices such as energy efficient wood
stoves and water harvesting-storage for backyard gardening during the dry season.
The project works with communities of pilot farmers who identify, implement and evaluate Climate-Smart
agroforestry practices with capacity building support. To support the up scaling of these practices, the
project also focuses on increasing awareness and knowledge of authorities and civil society about proven
good practices with a view to influence local and regional policies and to create conditions that promote
their implementation at larger scale. Farmers’ experiences further contribute to advocacy and practices
scaling-up.
Project start date: December 2014. Project activities ended in December 2016.
Contributes to S0 2, Outputs 2.1.1 and 2.2.1.
Main Project Results (including 2016 results)
 Wider awareness of the Probosque Law, which allows land owners with forests or agro-forestry in their
lands to access financial incentives for their sustainable management. FAO’s advocacy contributed to
the adoption of the law in 2015.
 Knowledge of local, national, regional institutions and civil society on the importance of
climate-smart agroforestry systems and technologies improved through the organization of technical
workshops, field visits to project activities, provision of technical support and dissemination of radio
spots.
 Evidence has been established for the successful scaling up of agroforestry Kuxur rum and Quesungual
systems piloted through the project. Climate-Smart technologies and agroforestry systems practices
piloted, monitored and evaluated by about 900 households and showed productivity, food security,
water and soil conservation improvements;
 In 2016, in Guatemala, 162 household acquired new skills to use water for agriculture more efficiently
and 62 households have a stronger capacity to cultivate cash crops as part of field pilot project.
Project log frame – Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015 & 2016)
Project Outcome: The scaling-up of agroforestry and sustainable natural resources management practices is
facilitated through improved knowledge and capacities of farmers’ communities and local, regional and national
authorities.
Output 1. Knowledge of local, national, regional institutions and civil society on the importance of
Climate-Smart agroforestry systems and technologies is improved for scaling-up into policies
2015

65

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

•

Project activities and initial and expected results shared with the main stakeholders through inter-sectorial
platform at local, national and sub regional level (Disaster Risk Management, Family Farming, Food Security,
Forestry meeting, roundtables and platforms);
• Advocacy activities conducted leading to the approval of a law (Probosque) promoting forestry recuperation,
restoration and protection and agroforestry implementation through incentive schemes (Guatemala);
• Scientific paper on the impact of agroforestry system Kuxur Rum on food security presented at COP21 by IUCN;
• Awareness raising on climate change and adaptation practices and technologies for 50 local authorities;
• Participative identification with local stakeholders (farmers, technicians, authorities) of best suited tree species
and CSA technologies to be implement and evaluated by communities of pilot farmers.
2016
• Study on Agroforestry Systems in the Dry Corridor and related national policies finalized (through a LoA signed
with the “Tropical Agricultural Research and Higher Education Center” – CATIE) and used as advocacy material.
It includes recommendations on how to promote agroforestry and climate-smart technologies;
• Participation in inter-sectorial platforms at local, regional and national level to advocate for Climate-Smart
Agroforestry Systems and technologies, and the strengthening of policies promoting these systems.
Guatemala

Three field trips organized for technical staff from the Ministry of Agriculture local agencies, the local
delegation from the Food and Nutritional Security Secretary (SESAN), the Eastern University Campus
(CUNORI), the Copan Ch’orti’ Commonwealth of Municipalities, the Municipality of Jocotán, and the National
Forestry Institute (INAB).

Network of 25 local volunteers established for the promotion of climate-smart agricultural systems.
Honduras

Workshop on agricultural systems organized with the Ministry of Agriculture (attended by 30 people from
public institutions, universities, development projects, professional associations, municipalities, and
farmers).

FAO project staff participated in the First Forum on Agroforestry organized by the Environment Ministry
(MiAmbiente+) and presented the project methodology for the implementation of agroforestry systems and
other technologies for the sustainable management of natural resources.

FAO participated in meetings of the Inter-institutional Technical Committee for Drought Risk Management,
coordinated by Honduras Government’s Standing Committee on Contingencies (COPECO), the Southern
Region Board for Risk Management Awareness and the Subcommittee of Agriculture, Food Security and
Climate Change (Ministry of Agriculture).

Technical assistance on silvo-pastoral systems and water-harvesting technologies provided to technicians
from the Environment Ministry’s working on the project “Sustainable Management of Productive
Landscapes”.

Over 12 public, private and non-for-profit institutions participated in field visits to project activities.

Information on climate smart technologies and agroforestry systems disseminated by daily radio spots for
three months, reaching 45 municipalities in the Dry Corridor area.
Output 2. About 900 rural households living in the dry corridor of Guatemala and Honduras implement innovative
climate-smart agroforestry technologies leading to sustainable productivity, soil and water conservation and
reduced wood consumption.
2015 and 2016
Guatemala and Honduras
• 885 pilot farmers (460 in Guatemala and 425 in Honduras) and 50 local technicians and authorities trained and
supported to implement agroforestry systems; amongst them, 118 farmers have access to governmental
incentives for five years from Probosque law (Guatemala);
• 885 pilot farmers and 50 local technicians and authorities trained in sustainable use of water and natural
resources;
• 885 farmers trained on practices for drought management;

66

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

•
•

400 households and 50 local technicians and authorities trained in sustainable use of wood and forest;
50 water harvesting tanks (8.5 m3) and irrigation systems (400m2) for horticultural production established (39
in Honduras and 5 in Guatemala);
• Tree production and plantation (150 000 trees) for the establishment of new agroforestry parcels (100 ha);
• 269 ecostoves established reducing wood consumption of wood and improving household’s health
(smokeless); (200 in Honduras and 69 in Guatemala).
• In the framework of the LoA signed with CATIE, the following activities carried out: i) Technical systematization
of agroforestry systems; ii) Stakeholder analysis and mapping of initiatives for agroforestry dissemination; iii)
Analysis of institutions and policies that contribute to the promotion of agroforestry systems; and iv)
Hydrological monitoring of agroforestry systems
• 162 families acquired capacities in the efficient use of water for agriculture, as well as cash-crop production
(orchards and fruit trees) and income-generating activities (fish pond management) in Guatemala:
• New module on silvo-pastoral systems developed and integrated into Livestock Training course, with Ministry
of Agriculture Service for Agricultural Training and Agribusiness Development (SEDUCA) in Honduras.
2017

national final workshops to be held in Guatemala and Honduras.

Lessons learned
•

•
•

New agroforestry systems (tree species and associations with crops) more adapted to the context of
the area of intervention were identified by project beneficiaries during implementation phase. This
means that the interest of the farmers towards sustainable practices has been raised;
Technologies and practices promoted by the project are being replicated by neighbour farmers without
project inputs. This means that project practices are sustainable and replicable;
The main challenge to the dissemination of technologies for natural resource adequate management
is land ownership. The unequal distribution of land hampers the adoption by many small farmers of
most of those technologies due to physical and financial reasons.

67

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

Blue Growth Initiative (BGI) in support of food nutrition security, poverty alleviation and healthy
oceans – FMM/GLO/112/ MUL (Baby 4)
Summary and Project Objectives: The BGI aims at supporting more productive, responsible and sustainable
fisheries and aquaculture sectors by improving the governance and management of the aquatic
ecosystems, conservation of biodiversity and habitats, and empowering concerned communities to act not
only as resource users but also as resource stewards.
The FMM project contributes to the BGI by supporting activities around four streams of work:
• development and implementation of methods, tools and policies for sustainable aquaculture
development and intensification in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Viet Nam;
• identification of management options for water basin to coral reef ecosystems services in Kenya;
• improvement of the assessment and monitoring of fisheries resources and related policy advice in
Cabo Verde, Madagascar and Seychelles;
• development of seaweed farming and value chains in Kiribati, the Philippines and Saint Lucia.
Project start date: July 2014.
Contributes to: Strategic Objective 2, Outputs 2.1.1, 2.1.2, 2.1.3, 2.2.1 and 2.2.2.
Main 2016 results:
Bangladesh
 Better awareness and knowledge of the environmental impacts of shrimp aquaculture in the country.
 Initial steps for the improvement of the environmental performance of aquaculture undertaken with
discussion of a draft action plan by sector stakeholders.
 Manual on low-density shrimp farming which does not impact the environment negatively now
available in Bengali for sector stakeholders.

Cabo Verde
 Further to the adoption of the Nation Blue Growth Charter in 2015, reinforcement of the Strategic
Intelligence Unit that has the technical responsibility for the implementation of a transition strategy
towards a Blue Growth Economy.
 Secured funding from the AfDB for an investment plan and a multiannual programme to support the
transition towards the Blue Economy and to support the SIU.
 Secured the adoption of a TCP for the adjustment and the reform of public institutions to transition
towards a Blue Growth Economy.

Kenya
 Improved knowledge of ecosystem services for water basin to coral reef ecosystems through the
preparation and publication of major studies;
 Draft Mariculture Strategy and Development Plan for Kenya being developed with FAO support;
 Capacity of members of Community Forest Associations (CFA) enhanced (mangrove restoration,
nursery management and income generating activities) in Kilifi and Tana River county;
 Improved seaweed production in Kwale county through farmer’s trainings on seaweed production,
processing and marketing and construction of dry shed;
 Capacity of milkfish farmers enhanced (production technologies, processing and marketing);
 Capacity of crab producers enhanced through trainings and equipment provisions (crab-fattening
cages).

68

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Kiribati, the Philippines and Saint Lucia
• Farmers’ capacities strengthened in seaweed farming strategies, value adding, pre-processing, business
plans and marketing in each country.
• Innovative farming practices introduced and tested. In Kiribati, floating systems were successfully
introduced. In Kiribati and the Philippines, integrated farming strategies were tested (respectively
seaweeds with sandfish and milkfish with shrimp) and showed promising results.
Sri Lanka

Two fishing communities identified and trained to pilot the establishment of water based hatcheries
on reservoirs to enable the fishing community to produce their own fingerling.
Viet Nam

there is a better understanding of aquafeed value chains and feeding practices for pangasius farming
and of the regulatory environment regarding aquafeed management thanks to studies and analysis
conducted on this matter.

Project log frame - Outcomes, outputs, activities conducted (2015& 2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcomes: Selected countries and partners have strengthened their capacities to implement the BGI
Output 1: Methods and technologies in support of sustainable aquaculture development and intensification are
implemented in Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, and Viet Nam
Bangladesh
2015
• Desk study and assessment of nutrient flows and pollution of shrimp farming and aquaculture finalized;
• draft work plan and budget related to the finalization of the National Marine Fisheries Policy and Action Plan
and stock assessment of marine fisheries developed.
Fisheries Component
• support the finalization of the “National Marine Fisheries Policy and Action Plan and stock assessment of
marine fisheries”;
• facilitate the participatory management of coastal and industrial fisheries through a national informationsharing workshop on social, economic, biological, oceanographic and governance aspects;
• investigate the development of a project proposal in support of marine capture fisheries management.
2016
 An assessment of shrimp farming environmental impacts in southern Bangladesh completed. Report “An
assessment of impacts from shrimp aquaculture in Bangladesh and prospects for improvement”. FAO Fisheries
and Aquaculture Technical Paper 618. Rome, FAO. To be published.
 A two-day National Workshop on Aquaculture Environmental Impact: Habitat, Landscape, Biodiversity,
Nutrients and Material Flows organized (January 2016) to: i) share and discuss the findings of the assessment
of the environmental impact of shrimp farming, main aquaculture environmental issues, and potential
solutions; ii) discuss a draft action plan to improve and streamline environmental performance of aquaculture
including the development of specific guidelines; and iii) discuss the scope of a pilot training programme for
improved understanding/ awareness about aquaculture environmental issues for DoF officials and others
involved in aquaculture development. About 46 representatives from government agencies, research
institution, University, NGOs, shrimp, prawn and fin-fish farmer and hatchery operators/owners participated.
 A training workshop on Environment Friendly Shrimp Farming &Management organized in Khulna (December
2016) for 21 participants from the Department of Fisheries, the Bangladesh Fisheries Research Institute,
WorldFish, the University and one NGO. The objective is to improve the application and compliance of
environmental impact assessment and environmental management of coastal aquaculture.

69

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

 A manual on Environment Friendly Shrimp Farming & Management (in Bengali) prepared. Intended for
training of trainers and Government Department of Fisheries Officials and NGO personnel working in the
sector, the manual focuses on low-density shrimp farming which will not impact the environment negatively.
If translated in English, the manual could be used in the region, particularly in South and Southeast Asia.
 A Concept Note for research study on wild shrimp/prawn post-larvae (PL) collection.68 The research findings
will provide guidelines on opportunities to improve harvesting methods and relevant enabling policy
frameworks.
2017
 Preparation of a manual on monitoring systems to study the impact of aquaculture/shrimp farming on
environment and mitigate its negative effects;
 Preparation of a full-fledged research proposal on wild shrimp/prawn post-larvae (PL) collection in
Bangladesh and organization of a national workshop to validate the research proposal;
 Organization of trainings on the impact of aquaculture/shrimp farming on environment and mitigate its
negative effects.
Sri Lanka. The activities pilot the feasibility of establishing water based tilapia hatcheries directly on reservoirs to
enable the fishing community to produce their own fingerling69.
2015
• One reservoir and a fishing community selected for first water-based hatchery pilot;
• a concept hatchery design prepared;
• a ten years cash flow for water-based hatcheries for tilapia fingerling production to demonstrate the financial
viability of the operation.
2016
 Two reservoirs and two fishing communities identified for pilot water-based hatchery with community
participation;
 A detailed hatchery design prepared with the list of equipment and materials;
 International and national procurement of equipment and materials for water-based hatchery completed;
 Coordination with National Aquaculture Development Authority (NAQDA) developed so that all the
activities are implemented by NAQDA;
 Two awareness raising programmes on water-based hatchery conducted in Anuradapura District (for
Aluthdiulwewa) and Monaragala District (for Urusitawewa) at district Agriculture committee meetings.
 Training programme for 30 fishers in two reservoirs conducted on life cycle of fish and rearing of fish in
cages.
2017
 Training of NAQDA technical staff on water-based hatchery designing, and preparation of layout plan;
 Series of technical trainings for hatchery operators and farmers on hatchery operation and management,
business plan preparation, on broodstock management seed production and disease, feed production and
management;
 Implementation of activities: establishment of hatcheries in selected reservoirs, broodstock production and
management, fish seed production and management, aquafeed production; and
 Preparation of comprehensive report on establishment of water-based hatchery on pilot-scale and the
strategy for dissemination of this technology.

In Bangladesh, shrimp farming mostly depends on the collection of wild seeds. This collection is an important source of
employment for the coastal poors. Concerns over the effect of shrimp post larvae (PL) collection on biodiversity and abundance of
various species prompted the Government of Bangladesh to ban fry collection in 2000. This ban is currently in abeyance pending a
review of alternative livelihoods, hatchery certification, the policy framework and an assessment of the scope to improve harvesting
methods. This research proposal will focus on three areas: performance evaluation of hatchery-reared and wild PL of shrimp and
prawn; the impact of biodiversity of coastal aquatic system; and the livelihood of PL harvesters.
69 In the past, farmers relied on a government subsidized programme for the provision of fingerlings which is being terminated.
68

70

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Viet Nam. Activities focus on improving the understanding of aquafeed production and management and policy
options for improvement and development of pangasius farming. The increase in feed prices which contribute
over 75 percent of production costs and the weak linkages along value chains are among the causes of the
reduction of Pangasius farming areas.
2016
 Technical report on aquafeed value chain (VC) analysis and on-farm feeding and feed management practices
for pangasius farming finalized. It assesses the status of the aquafeed sector, with an emphasis on mapping
and understanding aquafeed VC, describing the main stakeholders, assessing VC performance, identifying
major strengths and weakness, and suggesting appropriate actions, management and development
strategies;
 Draft report on existing regulatory framework and relevant policy guidelines on aquafeed management
reviewed and revised (close to finalization);
2017
 Undertake an on-farm study on farm performance over a complete production cycle in five cooperative
catfish farms in Mekong delta in collaboration with Can Tho University.
 Provide recommendations for updating policies and relevant regulatory framework for improvement of
aquafeed production and management in pangasius aquaculture (including at least three consultation
workshops);
 Conduct an assessment of farmers’ training programmes offered by feed manufactures for benchmarking and
to inform project training;
 Organize and conduct one Training of Trainers and up to three practical workshops to include improvement
of feed quality, supply, management practices and reduction of FCR/increase of feed conversion efficiency to
support livelihoods of small-scale pangasius farmers in Vietnam; and
 Prepare the final report.
Output 2.1 Knowledge of ecosystem services, the drivers of change affecting these services and their values is
improved and technical and management options are identified in Kenya.
Output 2.2. Investment in coastal sustainable mariculture is fostered and an effectively governed mariculture
development is promoted, that is socially inclusive, equitable and environmentally responsible70.
2015 - Launch of the BGI in Kenya. FAO requested to support the management of fisheries and production of
aquaculture and forestry and land tenure conflict management within an ecosystem approach.
Improved knowledge of ecosystem services and identification of management options
• field assessments finalized on: (i) value of ecosystem services in specific areas; (ii) existing mariculture activities;
(iii) post-harvest management practices; and (iv) mangrove restoration;
• Stakeholder report including a roadmap on concrete short-term and longer-term governance and practice
actions addressing key issues towards integrated sustainability and improved ecosystem services;
Community-level actions to increase value of ecosystem services for food, nutrition and livelihood security
• 32 district fisheries authorities, fishermen, fish farmers and community representatives trained on how to
implement an ecosystem approach to aquaculture (EAA) for mariculture development;
• about 107 fishermen and fish farmers (Kwale, Kilifi, Mombasa counties) trained on crab fattening, milk fish
culture, seaweed, oyster production to enhance sustainable commercial mariculture;
• nine officers from Kwale, Mombasa and Kilifi counties’ Governments trained to supervise and assist
communities for sustainable development of mariculture;
2016
This includes a better integration of the sector to other activities in the coastal zones and to increase its role in conserving and
improving coastal ecosystem services.
70

71

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Improved knowledge of ecosystem services and identification of management options
 Studies published that will allow better informed policy and strategic advice to government and potential
resource partners. Studies are: 1) Valuing coastal ecosystem as economic assets: the importance of mangroves
for Food Security and livelihoods amongst communities in Kilifi country and the Tana Delta; 2. Fish Value ChainAppraisal of the production and Post-Harvest conditions in selected sites of Lake Victoria, Lake Turkana and
Marine Coast in Kenya (publication in early 2017); 3. Atlas of Mariculture Potential Areas in Kenya (publication
in 2017. These reports present the existing status of coastal regions and lake basin.
 Production of a set of manuals on hygiene, post-harvest and fish processing in two languages (French and
English) designed using two levels of communication for two distinct groups (1 – University and Technical School
graduates; 2 – fish folks, fish processors, traders and farmers with or without formal education)
 Advise provided to taskforce members of the State Department of Fisheries and the Blue Economy for the
development of a draft Mariculture Strategy and Development Plan for Kenya (adoption planned for 2017).
Community-level actions to increase value of ecosystem services for food, nutrition and livelihood security
 Support to mangrove restoration in collaboration with Kenya Forest Services (KFS): Support to 4 Community
Forest Associations (CFAs) in Kilifi and Tana River County through: 1) Small Grant Agreement (90 members, 48
women, 42 men), 2) training (90 members on the 4 CFAs) on mangrove restoration, nursery management and
income generating activities such as aquaculture, bee keeping or weaving, and 3) awareness raising activities
on biodiversity, environmental protection (group trainings, door-to-door campaigns, display of environmental
messages). Two groups planted a total of 70 000 seedlings in a 5-ha empty space and established 3 new
mangrove nurseries. The two other groups will implement activities in 2017.
 Support to seaweed production and value added products: construction of a seaweed drying shed at Kibuyuni
Seaweed SHG (Kwale County) leading to post harvest loss reduction of about 80 % and an increased quality of
seeaweed products. Enhanced capacity of 145 weed farmers (53% were women) through trainings on seaweed
production, processing and marketing. Two other sheds are under construction for different groups
(completion expected by April 2017). Activity implemened in collaboration with Kwale County Directorate of
Fisheries which has also constructed a storehouse for seaweed for the same community. The Kibuyuni
seaweed women group showed case FAO’s work at the United Nations Development Assistance Framework
(UNDAF) National Steering Committee meeting hosted by the President at the State House.
 Support provided to 3 conservation groups to increase crab production in the mangrove areas, by providing
training, materials and equipment for the construction of 70 crab-fattening cages.
 The capacity of 67 milkfish farmers enhanced through training in production technologies, processing and
marketing and best management practices.
In addition to farmers and fishermen, staff from country governments were trained to follow up & assist
beneficiaries to continue interventions and boost up productions and entrepreunership development.
2017
 Production of the Marine Aquaculture Development Strategy and Action Plan for Kenya
 Production of a BGI Strategy for Fisheries and Aquaculture in Eastern Africa
 Publication of one Aquaculture Resource Atlas for the coast of Kenya
 Installation of seaweed packaging for export which will allow the farmers to sell at higher prices their product
and the traders to save on transportation costs as previously they would buy row unpacked seaweed and
transport to Zanzibar in bulk; and respective capacity building on use of machinery and good market packaging.
 Follow up support to seaweed producer groups and assist to establish market linkages and access to finance
with local and national buyers& organizations;
 Follow up mangrove restoration activities and expand in other communities;
 Follow up crab farming and upscale neighbor groups who has potentiality;
 Follow up oyster farming and assisting replicating;
 Follow up and technical support for crablet production in crab hatchery.

72

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

Output 3: Blue Growth concepts are integrated into fisheries policy and governance processes aimed at
sustainable aquatic resource development, management and conservation and implemented.
Cabo Verde

2015
•
•

A “Blue Growth Charter” adopted by the government for implementation at national level;
An inventory of potential Blue Growth products/services conducted in support to the development of a
strategy for maximizing the economic value of ecosystem services.

2016
• Strategic Intelligence Unit reinforced: (1) Terms of Reference for the four expert members of SIU and
recruitment process defined, (2) First annual work plan defined and adopted, (3) Methodological note to
implement the first annual work plan prepared and adopted.
 AfDB assistance fund (Middle Income Country Technical Assistance Fund) granted about USD 1.4 million to
support the SIU, to prepare an investment plan for the transition to the Blue Economy and for a multiannual
assistance programme to support the transition to the Blue Economy. Preparatory work included:
Preparation of an assistance programme to support SIU;
Preparation of a framework to mobilize AfDB funds to prepare an investment plan to facilitate transition
towards the Blue Economy (identification of investment priority areas and constraints to innovation and
practices changes to increase economic, social and environmental impacts of the Blue Economy sector,
based on sensitization and consultation with institutional, civil society and private partners);
Preparation of project document to prepare a multiannual assistance program to support Blue Economy
transition (capacity building, promotion of new employment, promotion of entrepreneurs for Blue
Growth, incubators, financing mechanisms and promotion of innovative technologies).
 TCP/IVC/3605 developed and funding granted for the adjustment and the reform of public institutions,
including the Minister for Economy and Employment in charge of fisheries, aquaculture and other maritime
matters.
 Continuation of sensitization on Blue Growth and Economy for international technical and financial partners
and preparation for the development of a platform to stimulate coordination and synergies with partners
involved in the Blue Growth sector (UNIDO, World Bank, UNDP, UNJP, Grand Duke of Luxembourg).
2017
 Implement the first annual work plan for the SIU by methodological assistance
 Contribute to the realization of the investment plan and the multiannual programme to facilitate the
transition to the Blue Economy funded by the AfDB
 Organize the Conference “Blue growth and economy: sharing African perspectives and experiences”
(Mindelo, May) to share experience and to reinforce the African Package for Climate-resilient Blue
Economies developed in cooperation with the AfDB and the WB71.
 Support to Blue Growth team to attend AfDB MIC-TAF dialogue in Abidjan (April)
Madagascar
2015
• Public and private stakeholders and policy frameworks contributing to the BGI identified. Support of the
African Development Bank to the BGI agreed.
2016 - the political context was not conducive to pursue activities.

Developed by the AfDB, the WB and FAO, the Package is composed of five flagship programmes that span the African continent
from Morocco to Mauritius (four coastal regions and the SIDS of Africa) over the period 2017-2020. It consists of technical and
financial assistance to support coastal and island states to take the challenges of climate change as they develop their ocean-based
economies and implement their Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). The assistance provided by the three agencies in
each country is through new investments funded by them and from the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility.
71

73

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

2017
• A workshop to be organized (June/July) to pre-identify the inter-sectorial and sectorial pilot experiences
contributing to Blue Economy transition and investment needs and to reinforce public and private sector
capacity and new employment strategy. The workshop will focus on the investment needs and programme
priorities in relation to the African Package developed with the AfDB and the World Bank in consideration of
climate change impacts for ocean-based economies.
• Support to be provided to the national Blue Growth team to participate in the international conference
dialogue on Blue Growth and Economy in Cabo Verde (May) and AfDB MIC-TAF dialogue in Abidjan (April)
The Seychelles
2016
 TCP project prepared. The project supports the strengthening of the Fisheries Economic Intelligence Unit
(FEIU) dedicated to the monitoring of the economic performance of the fisheries sector and the provision of
specific advices to support decision-making for improved governance and management of the sector in the
context of the Blue Economy. It is related to the SMARTFISH regional programme and activities in the Indian
Ocean to inform policy and decision makers on Blue Growth actions and investments.
2017
 Support to be provided to the Seychelle Blue Growth team to participate in the international conference
dialogue on Blue Growth and Economy in Cabo Verde (May).
Output 4: Seaweed farming and seaweed value chains are developed in Kiribati, the Philippines and
Saint Lucia
Kiribati
2015
• Technical, socio-economic, environmental and market analysis of the Kappaphycusalvarezii farming sector
conducted in the three main producer atolls;
• capacities of 60 farmers, processors and middle men built (farming practices, management, harvest,
preprocessing, marketing) following participatory training approaches (FFS);
• basic equipment for off-bottom and floating systems purchased for the three major producer atolls.
2016
 30 farmers were trained in farming strategies, management approaches, seedling selection, water quality
control and major pests control, prevention and diagnosis.
 30 farmers were trained in value adding, storage, quality control, drying, pre-processing.
 30 farmers were trained in business planning, markets and economic valuation of seaweeds.
 floating systems successfully introduced, and integrated productions (seaweeds with sandfish) tested.
The Philippines
2015
• Technical, socio-economic, environmental, value-chain and market analysis of the Gracilarias Sector
conducted in Sorsogon Province;
• capacities of 80 farmers, processors and middle men built (farming practices, management, harvest,
preprocessing, marketing) following participatory training approaches (FFS);
• basic equipment and Gracilaria seedlings (of various species) purchased and distributed to farmers.
2016
 60 farmers were trained in farming strategies, management approaches, seedling selection, water quality
control and major pests control, prevention and diagnosis.
 60 farmers were trained in value adding, storage, quality control, drying, pre-processing.
 60 farmers were trained in business planning, markets and economic valuation of seaweeds.

74

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

 integrated production of milkfish and shrimps tested, validated and applied by 10 farmers in Sorsogon
Province.
Saint Lucia
2015
• Technical, socio-economic, environmental, value chain and market analysis of the Kappaphycusalvarezii
farming sector being finalized based on agreed assessment criteria;
2016
• 45 farmers were trained in farming strategies, management approaches, seedling selection, water quality
control and major pests control, prevention and diagnosis.
• 45 farmers were trained in value adding, storage, quality control, drying, pre-processing.

• 45 farmers were trained in business planning, markets and economic valuation of seaweeds

75

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Restoration of degraded lands – FMM/GLO/112/MUL (baby 5)
Summary and Project Objectives: Deforestation and landscape degradation is a worldwide problem posing
serious obstacles to eliminating poverty and hunger, maintaining biodiversity, water and natural resources
and the ability of communities to adapt to climate change.
Targets set up at international level for FLR are ambitious: restoring 150 million hectares under the Bonn
challenge, an additional 200 million hectares under the New York declaration on Forest and achieving land
degradation neutrality by 2030 under the SDGs. To reach these objectives, the participation of a wide range
of stakeholders and investors is necessary and financing could range from USD 35 billion to USD 300 billion
(for land degradation neutrality) per year.
The objectives of the project are:
• to facilitate the planning and implementation of large scale FLR programmes at country level and in
pilot areas in six target countries (Cambodia, Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru, the Philippines and Rwanda);
• to further the development and implementation of restoration and sustainable landscape management
efforts at the global and regional levels through knowledge management, communication, outreach
and resource mobilization;
• to develop monitoring, assessment and evaluations tools and guidelines for FLR projects and
programmes and encourage their use.
The project feeds into a FAO Umbrella Programme on the ‘’Implementation of the FLR Mechanism’’. Some
of its activities are developed partnership with key global initiatives on FLR such as the Global Partnership
on Forest and Landscape Restoration (GPFLR).
Project start date: April 2015.
Contributes to: Strategic Objective 2, Outputs 2.1.2 and 2.3.2.
Main 2016 Results:
 In Lebanon, progress was made on the set up of two resource mobilization mechanisms for restoration
projects (the National Forest Fund and a crowdfunding platform for diaspora’s funds). Pilot restoration
activities were launched in the Kadisha Valley, the Shouf Biosphere Reserve, in Bkassine iconic pine
forest and Mhaidseh.
 In Guatemala, there is now a wider awareness amongst farmers and extensionists about the National
Strategy for the Restoration of Forest Landscapes, developed with FAO support in 2015, thanks to the
organization of workshops to promote the strategy and the establishment of demonstration sites.
 In Peru, a draft of the National Program for the Recuperation of Degraded Lands was prepared thanks
to FAO technical support and policy advice. Awareness of FLR was widened amongst students and
extension agents at government and sub governmental level through presentations and workshops.
 In Rwanda, the facilitation of the cross-sectoral working group for agriculture and natural resources, in
collaboration with the FAO Strategic Programme two, resulted in a Government’s request to FAO to
facilitate the preparation of a national strategy and action plan for agroforestry. In the Rulindo district,
9 Farmer Field Schools (FFS) were formed and capacities of 25 FFS facilitators and 276 farmers to
implement sustainable land management and agroforestry practices was strengthened. This led in
particular to the establishment of a community nursery and the planting of about 12,000 tree seedlings
over 200 hectares of farmland.

76

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

 In Cambodia and the Philippines, the FLRM work plans were prepared and endorsed.
 Several regional initiatives on FLR were enhanced through FAO technical support. FAO played a leading
role in structuring the FLR dynamics in Asia Pacific and the Mediterranean, by facilitating the
development of the Asia Pacific Strategy and Action Plan on FLR, and supporting the organization of the
fifth Mediterranean Forest Week on FLR, leading to the Agadir Declaration on FLR. FAO also actively
contributed, together with partners such as WRI to develop capacities and advocate for FLR in Africa
and Latin America, with their respective initiatives 20x20 and AFR100.
 Significant funds for FLR projects were successfully leveraged with funding from GEF for The Restoration
Initiative, a USD 54 million project covering 10 countries; from the German International Climate
Initiative (IKI) for a USD 5.3 million project aimed at scaling up FLR to achieve the NDCs in six countries
in Africa, Pacific Islands and the Mediterranean; and from the French Fund for Global Environment
(FFEM)for a USD 2 million FLR project in the Niger and Burkina Faso.
 The foundations to improve and align FLR monitoring worldwide were built with the adoption of a
Collaborative Roadmap to be implemented by a coalition of partners with FAO leadership. A
comprehensive stocktaking of over 40 tools and resources for FLR monitoring was compiled and will be
available through an FAO knowledge platform.
 Knowledge on FLR was widely shared through the regular updates of the FLR website, the preparation
of factsheets on Good Practices for FLR, two newsletters on FLR and presentations to numerous events,
workshops, conferences and meetings held around the world.
Project log frame - Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015 & 2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: Significant progress has been made by countries toward meeting the Bonn
Challenge, the Aichi Biodiversity Targets and relevant SDGs through a variety of interventions that
resulted in the restoration of degraded lands and the uptake of sustainable production and land
management practices contributing to sustainable supplies of food, fiber, forest, raw materials, etc.
Output 1. Planning and implementation of large scale FLR programmes supported at country level and
in pilot areas of target countries: Cambodia, Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru, the Philippines, Rwanda
In 2015, national work plans (2015-2018) on FLR were developed and adopted in Guatemala, Lebanon, Peru and
Rwanda. In Cambodia and the Philippines, the workplan development and adoption were planned for 2016.
Cambodia
2016

Preparation and endorsement of the FLRM work plan;

Development of a roadmap on FLR finance for implementation in 2017.
2017

Implementation of the roadmap on FLR finance: Training on the establishment and operationalization of
National Forest Funds (NFF) and on Payments for Ecosystem Services (PES); Study tour in Vietnam to
understand NFF practices in this country; Participation of five government staff to Environmental Leadership
and Training Initiative (ELTI) on FLR;

Assessment of restoration opportunities based on the Restoration Opportunities Assessment Methodology
(ROAM) through a Letter of Agreement (LoA) with the International Union for Conservation of Nature
(IUCN), co-financed by the regional Technical Cooperation Programme (TCP);

Compared analysis of policies and legislations to identify barriers for investments into FLR and to propose
changes in the current regulation frameworks to facilitate the implementation of FLR at large-scale;

Collaboration with UN-REDD to develop the knowledge base on the state of forests and their degradation;

77

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------



Resource mobilization, through a partnership with the World Bank in the context of the Forestry Investment
Programme (FIP) and through project proposals in the context of both GEF-7 and the Green Climate Fund.
Guatemala
2016

Support to the preparation of regulations of the law PROBOSQUE;

Preparation of draft “Technical Guidelines for practices and systems of forest landscape restoration in
Guatemala”, targeted at technicians’ and rural promoters;

Promotion of the National Strategy for the Restoration of Forest Landscapes, through three workshops
targeting community leaders, farmers, technicians and academia;

Support to the preparation of an Operational Plan for FLR in 2017 and to the incorporation of the National
Land and Environment Bureau of Southern Petén into the National Bureau of Forest Landscape Restoration
of Guatemala (MNRP);

Organization of exchange visits between communities in Southeast Petén, focusing on FLR through cocoa,
cardamom and species such as achiote, cinnamon and vanilla integrated with timber trees;

Organization of exchange tours in San Marcos area to study agroforestry combinations, plantations of
pinabete and recovery process using white pine and pinabete for water sources protection;

Participation of three professional technicians to the course “Restoration of landscapes: principles and tools
to lead the transformation” held at CATIE;

LoA signed with Balam Association and with two Municipalities (Ixchiguán and Tacaná) for the promotion,
training and establishment of demonstration sites for FLR.
2017

Promotion of the National Strategy on Restoration of Degraded Lands and sensitizing FLR stakeholders

Publication, printing and distribution of a FLR guide

Capacity building on how to use the FLR guidelines on FLR practices for technicians

Select and build demonstration sites for restoration activities for farmers and plan on how to integrate farmers
into the financial incentives program under the PROBOSQUE law.

Set up research program on the use of “new” restoration technologies including other relevant partners;

Support the establishment of a monitoring and evaluation program together with the National FLR
roundtable;

Start the development of an upscaling strategy using experiences from the first FLR implementations of 2017.
Lebanon
2016

Development of a feasibility study and organization of two workshops to support the operationalization of
the National Forest Fund (NFF) to be the main financial instrument to support the National Afforestation
and Reforestation Program (NARP) named the 40 million tree program (ongoing);

Technical assistance to the preparation of an innovative national crowdfunding platform for mobilizing
financial resources from the Lebanese Diaspora on small scale FLR projects (ongoing);

Implementation of pilot actions focusing on: (i) restoration of abandoned terraces in the Kadisha Valley and
the Shouf Biosphere Reserve and (ii) restoration of eroded landscapes in the bio corridor of Bkassine iconic
pine forest and Mhaidseh in partnership with a local NGO (LRI) and USAID.

Compared legislative analysis of barriers to large-scale implementation of FLR in Lebanon (2016 and 2017);
2017

Organization of three technical days on FLR focusing on water saving for FLR, relevant provenances and forest
genetic resources for FLR and on landscapes approaches (February 2017) and publication of associated
technical datasheets, adapted to the national context on these key topics for efficient implementation of FLR;

78

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------



Identification of restorations options at landscape level thanks to a methodology developed by the Medscape
regional European Union project. A Letter of Agreement (LoA) was signed with the American University of
Beirut to prepare GIS maps covering the entire territory of Lebanon.

the Philippines
2016

Preparation and endorsement of the FLRM work plan. It will contribute to the implementation of selected
priority actions of the National Action Plan adopted by the Forest management Bureau in November 2016;
2017

Implementation of the work plan, with field activities in the Carood Watershed Model Forest on Bohol
Island.
Peru
2016

Support to the preparation of the National Program for the Recuperation of Degraded Lands (PNRAD)
through the facilitation of four working groups;

Technical contribution to the country-wide mapping of restoration opportunities and projects;

Participation to subnational, national, and international advocacy events for FLR including: Investment
roundtable in Lima to mobilize private impact investors of the Initiative 20x20; FLR meeting in the Forestry
week (Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina); Promotion event including lectures on what is restoration
and how the National Restoration Program works at Universidad ESAN, Presentation of FLR experiences
from Peru at Colombian Restoration Congress in Medellin, Colombia;

organization of two trainings: one on the “Restoration Opportunities. Assessment Methodology” for Peru
(ROAM) with WRI, IUCN, CONDESAN and HELVETAS and one on identifying and mapping restoration
opportunities in Peru. Trainings targeted government staff at the national and regional level, mainly from
SERFOR and partners from NGOs, universities and the international cooperation.

Organization of two trainings and learning events, in particular, an event on the “Restoration Opportunities.
Assessment Methodology” for Peru (ROAM) with WRI, IUCN, CONDESAN and HELVETAS; and an event on
identifying and mapping restoration opportunities in Peru.

Elaboration of extension documents including a systematization document prepared based on forty-seven
best practices identified in Peru.
2017

Participatory completion of the national FLR planning document (including mapping of areas to be restored)
and its political support at the highest levels;

Strategic actions in pilot sites and nationally, to promote scaling up of LFR in the country.


Advocate for FLR towards private sector and establish a first collaboration with companies for instance from
the mining sector. Analyze the possibilities of financial incentives for FLR in Peru.

Rwanda
2016
 Facilitation of the cross-sectoral platform for agriculture and natural resources in Rwanda in close
collaboration with the FAO Strategic Programme Two (SP2) (four meetings of the taskforce in 2016);
 Training of 20 FFS facilitators and four local government staff of the District of Rulindo on Agroforestry and
other Sustainable Land Management (SLM) technologies and practices (August-September 2016);
 276 farmers organized and trained through nine FFS in the district of Rulindo (trough an LoA with the NGO ViAgroforestry) and provision of environmental-friendly and income-generating activities (agroforestry nursery,
compost units, banana planting material multiplication unit, dairy cows, vegetable bulking centre) leading to
establishment and planting of about 12,000 tree seedlings.

79

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

 Co-organization with the International Union of Forest Research Organizations (IUFRO) and Wageningen
Center for Development Innovation of the technical segment of the first high-level East African Community
(EAC) Bonn challenge meeting, aimed at developing capacities of 70 practitioners from the sub-region in
implementing FLR activities (July);
 Preparation of two studies on value chains with high restoration potential (cassava and coffee), Rulindo
District;
 Preparation and submission of a project proposal to FONERWA for USD 2 000 000;
2017
 Follow up to the organization and facilitation of FFS in the district of Rulindo in collaboration with FAO SP2;
 Elaboration of a study on FLR success stories in Rwanda based on successful past projects (January 2017);
 Organization of the Forest and Landscape Investment Forum (May 2017) – See regional activities;
 Development of the national cross-sectoral agroforestry strategy and action plan, with FAO Sub-Regional
Office for Eastern Africa (SFE) and Strategic Programme Two (SP2) co-funding and in partnership with ICRAF
and other relevant organizations at national and international levels (2017).
Output 2. Further development and implementation of restoration and sustainable landscape management
efforts at the global and regional levels supported through knowledge management, communication and
outreach provided by FAO.
2015
• Publication of “Discussion Paper on Sustainable Financing for FLR”;
• side events and regional workshops organization for COP 12, COP 21 and Global Landscape Forum;
• publication of a special issue of the FAO journal Unasylva on FLR in English, French and Spanish.
• Expert workshop on Private Sector Investments in Forest and Landscape Restoration;
• discussion paper, policy brief and an infographic on “Sustainable Financing for Forest and Landscape
Restoration” published, jointly with the Global Mechanism (GM) of the UNCCD,
• Capacity building workshop for 70 West African participants focusing on: assessment of restoration needs;
planning of restoration options; implementation, monitoring and financing of FLR;
• Organization of the Advisory Group meeting of the FLR Mechanism72 (July 2015).
Partnerships and regional initiatives
Asia Pacific
2016
• High level session on FLR organized during the Asia Pacific Forestry Commission (APFC)73;
• Support to the preparation of the “Asia Pacific Strategy and Action Plan on Forest and Landscape
Restoration” through stakeholder’s consultations including an event with APFC delegates during COFO 23 in
Rome (July 2016) and the organization of the endorsement event at the next APFC session (Sri Lanka, end
2017).
2017
• Organization of a workshop “Promoting the Role of Natural Regeneration in Large-scale Forest and
Landscape Restoration: Challenges and Opportunities” to operationalize this ‘’Asia – Pacific Regional Strategy
and Action Plan for Forest and Landscape Restoration” (China, May 2017).
Mediterranean
2016

The Mechanism is a multidisciplinary team within FAO Forestry Department built to support implementation of FLR
Initiatives/Programmes/Action Plans both at global, regional and national levels.
73 jointly with the FAO Regional Office for the Asia and the Pacific, Asia Pacific Association of Forestry Research Institutions (APAFRI),
Asia Pacific Network for Sustainable Forest Management and Rehabilitation, IUCN and WRI.
72

80

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

•

Technical support to the preparation of the Fifth Mediterranean Forest Week on FLR (Morocco, March
2017). Participants to discuss a financial strategy to better coordinate public and private sectors’ investments
and endorse the ‘’Agadir Declaration’’, launching a Restoration Initiative for the Mediterranean (RIM 2030);
2017
• Technical support for the preparation of a chapter on FLR in the second edition of the State of Mediterranean
Forests, to be published by the Committee on Mediterranean Forestry Questions (Dec. 2017);
• Support to the implementation of the Restoration Initiative for the Mediterranean (throughout 2017).
Latin America
2016
• Participation in the first annual meeting of the Initiative 20x20. A meeting with a set of technical partners was
organized to start defining a common action plan on capacity building, knowledge sharing and monitoring to
support countries in the framework of the 20x20 Initiative.
• Support to an international course “landscape restoration: inclusive principles and tools to lead
transformation” held at CATIE and co-organized by CATIE and WRI (Costa Rica, July 2016).;
• Participation in the regional workshop “Forest and Landscape Restoration: from policy to practice” (El Salvador,
September 2016). Speech delivered at the opening session and a technical presentation made.
2017
• Participation in the second annual meeting of the Initiative 20x20, and in the meeting of technical partners; As
additional contributions to the Initiative 20x20: (1) Development three issues of the series of guides to support
countries and investors in their work on FLR; (2) Development and testing of protocols for monitoring FLR
performance and impacts; (3) Development of a regional training course on FLR
Co-organization of the workshop “The Bonn Challenge for FLR in Mesoamerica: Preparing the Road for
Up scaling”.
Africa
2016
• Participation to the first meeting of Initiative 100 (AFR100), the African regional initiative for FLR, in Ethiopia;
2017
• Organization of the Forest and Landscape Investment Forum, a sub-regional forum targeting FLR investors
and business champions, in partnership with NEPAD as Secretariat of AFR100 and the Government of
Rwanda, building on FAO and development partners co-finance (May 2017).
Finance and resource mobilization for the FLRM
2016-2017
• Preparation of a GEF-6 Thematic Programme named “The Restoration Initiative” (TRI) in partnership with
IUCN and UNEP for a total amount of USD 54 000 000 with “child projects” in ten countries. The FLRM leads
the preparation phase and will implement five national child projects (Central African Republic, Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Sao Tome e Principe, Kenya and Pakistan). The FLRM will provide support to the global
component on “Global learning, Partnerships and Finance.
• preparation and facilitation of inception national workshops held in each country involved in TRI (June-Dec);
•

Preparation of a project proposal “Restauration of Forests and Landscapes and Sustainable Land
Management in Sahel” to the French Facility for Global Environment (FFEM) for a total amount of USD 1 940
000.

•

Preparation of a project proposal for the International Climate Initiative of the German Ministry of
Environment (IKI), worth USD 5 300 000 and entitled “The Paris Agreement in action: scaling up Forest and
Landscape Restoration (FLR) in the context of the Bonn Challenge to achieve the Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs) by promoting joint mitigation and adaptation approaches.” The proposal approved in
late November 2016, aims at scaling up FLR to achieve the NDCs and is focused on three regional initiatives
and six countries in Africa (the Niger and Ethiopia), Pacific Islands (Philippines and Fiji) and the Mediterranean
(Lebanon and Morocco). The full project document will be developed by July 2017;

81

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

•

•
•
•

Organization of a two-day workshop on “Financial and Institutional Innovation for Reducing the Risks of
Private Sector Investments in Sustainable Forestry” in the framework of the Initiative on “Promoting Private
Sector Investments in Sustainable Forestry” (2016);
Development of a roadmap and concept for a global FLR crowdfunding platform with Mirlo Positive Nature
and International Model Forest Network (IMFN) (2016).
FAO also actively engaged into initial discussions with countries on potential FLR GCF concepts, in particular
in Malawi, Uganda and Madagascar.
Preparation in collaboration with other FAO Programs in Guatemala and FAO Office, of a proposal for the
Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA): “Addressing climate change through climate smart
interventions in forest and farm systems in Guatemala, for USD 7 million.

Capacity development and Knowledge platform
2016

Organization of three regional capacity building workshops with the Convention on Biological Diversity
(CBD) Secretariat on Forest and Landscape Restoration, in Latin America, Asia and the Mediterranean;

Publication of a working paper on cross-sectoral policy integration for FLR and food security based on the
lessons learned from the Republic of Korea;

Development of a module on FLR in the Sustainable Forest Management toolbox;

Development of three “Good Practice” fact sheets on FLR: (1) The mechanized micro-catchment waterharvesting (Vallerani) system for restoring degraded drylands; (2) Dune stabilization and afforestation and
(3) The safe use of treated wastewater in drylands.
2017

preparation of three additional “Good Practice” factsheets on FLR planned for 2017 (1) “Polyter” system, (2)
“Waterboxx” system, and (3) Seed propagation.

The FLRM will lead the component “capture and dissemination of best practices and institutional capacity
building” of the TRI project and will support a study assessing gaps and opportunities to develop an
interactive FLR knowledge platform including an on-line library of resources and capacity building materials.
Communication and outreach
2016 and 2017

Organization of the second Advisory Group meeting of the FLRM in Rome (FAO, Italy, July 2016);

Development, launch and regular updates of the FLRM Website launched (May 2016); elaboration and
diffusion of two FLRM newsletters (May and October 2016);

Organization of and participation to side events and workshops on FLR on the occasion of the Committee on
Forestry (COFO 23) (July 2016), CBD COP 13 in Mexico (December 2016), UNCCD COP 13 (China, September
2017), UNFCCC COP 23 (Germany 2017) and FAO Conference (July 2017).

Signature of an MoU with the International Model Forest Network (IMFN) to strengthen cooperation on FLR;
Participation to and advocacy for FLR during: Investment case meeting of the Asia Pacific Forestry Week
(Philippines, February 2016), LPFN partners meeting (Netherlands, June 2016), Global Restoration Council (July
2016), World Conservation Congress (Hawaii, September 2016), African Forest Landscape Restoration Initiative
(AFR100) meeting (Ethiopia, October 2016), African Landscapes Dialogues (March 2017) and other key Global
Partnership on Forest and Landscape Restoration (GPFLR) and Bonn challenge meetings (2017).
Output 3. Monitoring, reporting, assessment and evaluation of international forest and landscape restoration
efforts are regularly updated and published by FAO
2016
• Organization of an expert workshop on monitoring tools for FLR (FAO April 2016) to adopt a common road map
with key partners (IUCN, the World Resources Institute [WRI], CBD, UNCCD, Bioversity International, etc.).

82

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

•
•

•

•

Mapping of tools, approaches, guidelines and best practices for FLR, including for monitoring FLR, developed
through an internal cross-departmental consultation;
Organization of the Drylands & Forest and Landscape Restoration Monitoring Week with partners (April 2016);
adoption of a collaborative roadmap aimed at supporting and aligning FLR monitoring efforts globally and
implemented by an open coalition of partners with FAO’s leadership;
Facilitation of the implementation of the collaborative roadmap. It has five streams of work: 1)Development
of a guidance document on the design, establishment and operation of FLR monitoring systems, 2)
Development of an interactive knowledge platform for FLR monitoring; 3) Forming and testing evolving
technical alliances, mechanisms and / or networks to support effective FLR processes (including monitoring) in
selected countries and regions; 4) Creating and facilitating a community of learning; 5) Form an innovation hub
to support other activity streams, harnessing contributions from the science, technology and innovation
communities.
Support provided for the implementation of the Roadmap: facilitation of experts’ groups on each of the five
topics of the roadmap and preparation of the ToRs of each priority streams; development of a concept note
on a Community of Practice on FLR monitoring (December 2016); Preparation of a guidance document on FLR
monitoring, in partnership with FAO’s project “Strengthening criteria and indicators for sustainable forest
management in policy and practice”

2017
Continued support to the implementation of the roadmap: preparation and launch of a knowledge platform
focusing on FLR monitoring (March 2017); launch of a Community of Practice (June 2017), in partnership with
Wageningen Center for Development Innovation and the Secretariat of the GPFLR; development of a guidance
document on FLR monitoring and organization of an expert consultation on monitoring (June 2017).

Lessons-learned:
 The preparation of the work plans in each country took longer than initially expected. To ensure full
implementation of these work plans, an extension of both the duration and the total amount of this
project FMM/GLO/112/MUL- Baby 5 (December2018) should be discussed based on the current level of
implementation of the work plans in June 2017.
 The amount available per country is relatively low and oblige the FLRM team to develop partnerships
and strategic alliances with other partners to be credible at national level. The funds available for each
country do not allow developing large-scale restoration efforts on the ground in the selected pilot areas,
which is a strong request from government counterparts in all beneficiary countries.
 Stakeholders acknowledge the value of regional collaboration and exchange as a good way to transfer
knowledge, sensitize policy makers and mutualize tools and approaches. This multi-country dynamics is
starting in the Mediterranean region and the Asia Pacific region under the leadership of the FLRM and
is promising, however it requires significant investments, both in terms of time and financial resources
to facilitate these multi-country processes. More efforts should be put into these promising processes
for which country-demands and needs are high for additional funds;
 The flexibility of the FMM funding and its wide geographical scope are greatly appreciated as they allow
to leverage additional funding from other sources through innovative arrangements.

83

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

Integrated landscape management to boost food and nutrition security (ILMFNS) in Fiji and Samoa,
Small Island Developing States (SIDS) - FMM/GLO/112/MUL (baby 6)
Summary and Project Objectives: the objective of the project is to improve land management and land use
practices in the context of improving and increasing access to food security and nutritious food. Two other
related objectives are to increase awareness on importance of nutritious food and building capacities of
key government departments and farmers on best integrated land practices that support food security and
promote nutritious food.
Project start date: October 2015.
Contributes to: Strategic Objective 2, outputs 2.1.1; 2.1.2; 2.1.3; 2.2.1; 2.2.2
Main 2016 results:
 A revised project log Frame and outline of expected results and activities developed by the FAO Sub
regional Office for the Pacific Islands (FAOSAP) in collaboration with relevant national authorities.
Revised project log frame (2016-2017)
Project Outcome: Increased capacity and awareness in Fiji and Samoa on food and nutrition security and
sustainable integrated agricultural systems
Output 1: Better knowledge of dietary patterns to improve food and nutrition security
2016

Data collection initiated for an economic study on Fiji’s nutrition profile.
2017

Complete an analysis on dietary patterns, healthy food baskets and related health and food nutrition based
policies in Fiji, finalize the report and prepare a policy brief targeted at the Ministry of Health, the Ministry
of Agriculture and key stakeholders on priorities and possible programmes and interventions.

Workshop to be organized to illustrate report findings and recommendations

Conduct nutrition assessment of children <5 years at 6 locations in Fiji and 3 locations in Samoa

Conduct NCD (Non-Communicable Disease) screening of adults 24+ years at 6 locations in Fiji

Conduct NCD screening of adults 30+ years and all pregnant mothers at 3 locations in Samoa

Complete awareness training at targeted villages to educate the community on Infant & Young Child
Feeding (IYCF) and on the importance of iron intake for Pregnant and Lactating Mothers (Fiji & Samoa)
Output 2: Eco-friendly and socially appropriate production systems and practices identified, implemented and
monitored
2016
•
Provided technical support for aquaculture sector affected by Cyclone Winston in Fiji
•
Completed damage assessments for impacted tilapia farms
•
Collected damage assessment forms from the National Seaweed Officer
•
Identified level of damage assessment undertaken, level of impact to farmers and resources available to
assist with rehabilitations
•
Procurement of equipment, feed and hardware for rehabilitation works
•
Identified communities for training on Tilapia hapa hatchery with The Pacific Community (SPC) and the
Ministry of Fisheries and Forestry (MoFF)
•
Assisted Naduruloulou Freshwater Research Station (NRS) to identify major damage and priority areas
•
Distributed relief packages to impacted parties

84

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

Developed plans for monitoring, evaluating and supporting project activities at GEFPAS-FPAM project
sites74
2017

Provide follow up support for SLM activities including procurement requirements for the maintenance of
these sites: 5 villages across Fiji with GEFPAS sites (Macauta Province, Ba Province, Vidawa Village, Vione
farmers group and Moumici farmer group) and 3 villages in Samoa with GEFPAS sites (Gataivai, Taga and
Fagamalo)
Output 3: Capacity of students, teachers and community members strengthened in nutrition and food security
strategies integrated into Integrated Landscape Management (ILM) approaches
•

2016 – The project plans to set up school based demonstration farms.
•
Visit to project sites, planning of 2017 activities with relevant stakeholders
•
selected school/colleges consulted. Discussions with school principals of 3 high schools in Fiji and 3
school/colleges in Samoa.75
2017
• Establish demonstration plots and nurseries within selected schools
• Review, revise and improve the blueprint developed to set up the demo plots
• Provide list of crops, vegetables, plants and tree species for planting in the mix crop-vegetable-tree system
• Identify and provide info to suppliers of seeds, seedlings, plants specifying quantity and estimated costs
• Identify site for the school nursery and establish as required
• Deliver training workshops on new and improved SLM practices across school sites and communities
(Cakaudrove province & Ba province (Fiji): 220 school aged children, 200 community members and 20
teachers trained; Taveuni Fiji: 120 school aged children, 100 community members and 20 teachers trained;
Samoa: 220 school aged children, 100 college students, 100 community members and 20 teachers trained)
• Organize and deliver capacity building workshops
• Complete capacity building workshops based on training in SLM principles for school related communities
and those involved with the current GEFPAS demonstration sites. Four (4) capacity building workshops for
school demo plots in Cakaudrove province and Ba province including GEFPAS demo sites in Macuata and Ba
provinces and 3 workshops in Taveuni including GEFPAS demo sites in Vidawa village, Vione farmers group
and Moumici farmer group
• Deliver training on NCDs, diet and nutritious food to demo schools and target communities
• Provide outreach materials (brochures, T-shirts, posters, stickers)
• Train community members in household garden development and management
• Establish contact with target villages and identify where the household demonstration sites will be
developed (Fiji & Samoa). Communities to prepare sites before commencement of trainings
• Complete training in the development of house gardens and management through practical demonstrations
• Identify the current vegetable and plant products grown in targeted villages to formulate a food pack that is
socially and culturally appropriate (Fiji)
• In close consultation with project team, relevant Government agencies and local communities, identify
vegetables to be included in the food packs (Fiji)
• Provide seed pack tailored to community needs, based on promoting organic practices with an emphasis on
locally adapted species (Fiji)
• Train community members in household garden development and management (Fiji & Samoa)
• Complete cooking demonstrations together with good food preparation practices (Fiji)

74

Global Environment Facility Pacific Alliance for Sustainability-Forestry and Protected Area Management (GEFPAS-FPAM

75 Selected schools in Fiji: Niusewa Methodist High School, VaturovaKoroalau High School (Cakaudrove Province) &Nadarivatu High

School (Ba Province). Selected schools in Samoa: LDS-Church College of Vaiola (Savaii), Uesiliana Technical Training Centre Savaii,
Malua Theological College (Upolu).

85

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

Enhancing biodiversity and nutrition through agroecology in Mali and Burkina – FMM/GLO/112/MUL
(Baby 7)
Summary and Project Objectives: To achieve the SDG of ending hunger and all forms of malnutrition by
2030, more food but also a more diverse food production is required. Integrated farming systems, taking
advantage of the tremendous potential from undervalued local biodiversity including indigenous fruit,
crops vegetables, livestock and fish, can contribute to achieving nutrition security, while building virtuous
cycling of resources that ensure environmental sustainability.
The project builds an innovative foundation in Burkina Faso and Mali for the adoption of small-scale
agroecological farming systems. Agroecology is based on the principles of optimizing biological interactions
and stressing ecological inputs, as a solution to nutritional needs and climate change adaptation.
Agroecology builds on farmers' own innovation systems and empowers them to share their innovations in
a farmer-to-farmer system of dissemination. This approach ensures a better uptake of locally adapted
innovations with a high sense of ownership.
This transition to sustainable, biodiversity-rich, nutrition relevant and climate-resilient agriculture will be
facilitated through training of farmer-trainers and awareness raising.
This initiative links to other existing projects in the two countries led by FAO and funded by GEF on
agropastoral field schools by supporting exchanges between field school trainers and agro-ecology
farmer-trainers in order to mutually enrich the two overlapping approaches.
In addition, agro-ecological approaches must be implemented on landscape level to take advantage of the
full range of benefits for ecosystems and the climate. Therefore, opportunities will be sought to upscale the
approach at the territorial level in the future and as possible follow-up. This will involve identifying the most
likely provinces where local governors could support the adoption of agro-ecology at the landscape level,
and working with FAO at the national, regional and global levels to identify promising sources of funding.
Project start date: September 2015.
Contributes to: Strategic Objective 32, Outputs 2.1.2 and 2.4.3.
Main 2016 results:
 Improvement of the scientific understanding of agroecological approaches, and their specific relevance
to Africa through the publication of a scientific review on legume crops;
 Development of a set of 10 factsheets on tree species useful for agroecological and agroforestry
systems in Mali targeted at farmers, including those with only very little literacy skills;
 Farmers’ sensitization on public policies for agroecology and their role and rights in Mali. Opportunity
for 900 farmers to discuss policies they need to support agroecology and share their experience;
 Capacities of 450 farmers, master trainers in agro-ecology and farmers who lead agroecology projects
strengthened through a series of training delivered to farmers’ organizations and on NGO in Mali and
Burkina;
 Increased cross-sectoral collaboration within FAO, both at global and at country office level, between
crop production division and food systems and nutrition division and Strategic programmes 1 and 2,
culminating a joint project proposal to develop dietary guidelines in West Africa, while incorporating
issues relevant to sustainability.

86

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

Project log frame – Outcomes, outputs and activities implemented (2016) and planned (2017)
PROJET OUTCOMES: in Mali and Burkina Faso
1. Agroecological approach applied in farmer trainings by FOs and support NGOs with expertise in
agroecology.
2. Identification of opportunities to strengthen policy support for a joint approach to biodiversity and
nutrition through agroecology through policy analysis and multistakeholder consultations.
Output 1. Relevant stakeholders in Mali and Burkina Faso developed a shared understanding of
priorities for bringing together biodiversity and nutrition in an integrated way and strategies for joint
activities to further strengthen policies and actions
2016
• Literature review on how diversified production can improve nutrition conducted and available;
• Scientific review “Legume Crops for Sustainable African Farms” finalized. It looks at the role of tropical food
legumes in agroecological systems in West Africa as a concrete pathway to linking biodiversity and nutrition;
• Report «Biodiversité et Nutrition au Mali : Étude pour aider à la mise en œuvre des Directives Volontaires pour
la prise en compte systématique de la biodiversité dans les politiques, programmes et plans d’action nationaux
et régionaux relatifs à la nutrition» finalized. The report presents the opportunities and challenges of bridging
the biodiversity-nutrition gap. A similar report is being prepared for Burkina Faso.
• National workshop on biodiversity and nutrition organized (Mali, December 2016), building on the regional
workshop on dietary guidelines organized by FAO’s Nutrition and Food Systems division (ESN). The workshop
recommendations included the priority to develop food-based dietary guidelines for Mali.
Output 2. Policy options for supporting the adoption of agroecology developed by FOs and shared with
decision-makers
2016
• Two workshops organized with Coordination Nationale des Organisations Paysannes (CNOP) on Public Policies
for Agroecology (March 2016, Mali)76. The first workshop focused on public policies to sensitize local authorities
in farmers’ trainings and promotion of farmers’ participation in the construction of such policies (300
participants). The second workshop focused on the sensitization to agroecology as an alternative to large-scale
land acquisitions and the role of the government in the protection of farmers’ rights (250 participants);
• Panel organized on public policies for agroecology at the International Conference on the Right to food (March
2016, Senegal). Discussion on the role of public policies based on human rights based approach for
agroecology; distribution of the recommendations of civil society movements to representatives of the
Economic Community of West African States and The West African Economic and Monetary Union (350
participants).
2017
 Organized a workshop to establish a national platform on agroecology in Mali (planned for March 2017);
• Develop a report on research needs in relation to agro-ecology;
• Produce a video on governance systems needed for research institutions to promote research for agroecology.
Output 3. Farmer-trainers' and farmers' capacity on agro-ecology and diversified and integrated production
systems is strengthened
2016
 Relevant training materials developed including ten fact sheets on ten tree species for integrating trees into
agro-ecology (agroforestry) in partnerships with CNOP. They supplement its existing curriculum on agroecology
76

CNOP is the largest platform of smallholder farmer organizations in Mali and counts dozens of producer associations and
cooperatives. It is highly experienced in delivering trainings and has a national training centre and field school.

87

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

for training farmers. Filling a gap in material available, they are targeted at farmers, rather than technicians and
scientists. They are adapted to the needs of farmers with low levels of literacy, using many visual elements.
Mali
•

•
•

Training workshop organized on the control of pests in agro-ecology (40 women, members of Convergence
des Femmes Rurales pour la Souveraineté Alimentaire- COFERSA)77 trained on beneficial insects and pests
(Sikasso)
COFERSA workshop on local seeds production for agroecology (sensitization of 41 women farmers to the
production of local seeds varieties and exchange of seeds from various regions of the country)- (Sikasso).
National training workshop organized on agro-ecology for the peasant trainers of CNOP;

Burkina Faso
•
•
•
•
•

First national training workshop organized on agro-ecology and agroforestry practices for 62 members of the
Syndicat National des travailleurs de l'Agro-Pastoral (SYNTAP)78 (September 2016, Houndé)
Training workshop for 19 agroecology trainers (self-evaluation and knowledge-sharing of Terre et Humanisme
agroecology trainers) - Betta
Establishment of a national platform for agroecology trainers by the Association Interzone pour le
Développement en Milieu Rural (AIDMR) - 80 participants. Betta
Ten agroecology trainers participated in the scientific training on agroecology systems with international agroecology expert (September, Ziniare)
AIDMR Training of 44 farmers on agroecology and livestock practices (Betta)

2017

Fact sheets on agroecology (training material) to be produced.

Output 4. Experiences and achievements of Mali and Burkina Faso on the integration of
biodiversity and nutrition priorities shared with other countries
2016




Joint AGP and ESN Seminar “Achieving Nutrition for All: What role for Agroecology” (FAO HQ, July) to enhance
debate and understanding of this cross-sectoral issue within FAO. The seminar was very well attended and
helped to foster exchanges and collaboration between the two divisions.
abstract prepared on “the challenges and opportunities of linking biodiversity and nutrition through the
promotion of traditional foods in Mali (the experience of a peasant women Organization)” and presentation by
an agroecological farmer from Mali on the same topic made at the International Symposium on Sustainable
Food Systems for Healthy Diets and Improved Nutrition (FAO Headquarters, 1-2 December 2016).

 Support for a representative of a consumer organization from Burkina Faso to attend regional workshop on
dietary guidelines in West Africa (Lomé, November 2016)

Lessons learned
The FMM support has a short time span which limits the capacity to build up both internal FAO and external
field relationships necessary for the project implementation. It takes time to establish a relationship based
on trust and to gather the detailed information needed to develop partnership agreements.

COFERSA represents 35 cooperatives and 3 916 women in the Sikasso region of Mali.
Syndicat National des Travailleurs de l’Agropastoral: farmers and herders’ organization with around 2 000 members in
Burkina Faso.
77
78

88

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

The project chose to prioritize working directly with farmers’ organizations. Such organizations tend to have
limited representation in cities, a limited number of paid staff, a limited capacity in foreign languages and
working with large institutions, etc. As a result, they face many challenges in responding rapidly to requests
for information, including for example because of poor access to internet. The length of time to receive
missing information was sometimes longer than expected to complete and deliver administrative steps. Yet
farmers’ organizations are incredibly important partners and should not be ignored by FAO. The partners
were very strong in delivering quality training workshops for farmers, and in mobilizing their members to
engage in discussions about policy. They bring important benefits, not least of which is the potential to
work directly with the beneficiaries of FAO’s programs. A good collaboration with FAO OPC was helpful in
learning to work more closely and with greater flexibility with farmers’ organizations.
The short duration of the project also made it a challenge to establish linkages with ongoing projects, such
as the GEF projects on agropastoral field schools in Mali and in Burkina Faso. Some linkages were
established (such as organizing together a training on agroecology in Burkina Faso in September 2016 and
a similar workshop upcoming in Mali in 2017), yet it was not possible to do more.

89

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

Rural poverty reduction through job creation in small ruminant value chains in Ethiopian highlands FMM/GLO/101/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: The overall goal of this project is to test and learn from a new integrated
approach to livestock sector development, which, at the same time, improves livestock productivity and
farmer livelihoods and ensures that decent employment opportunities are generated upstream and
downstream along a specific value chain.
The project focused on small ruminant fattening activities in the Amhara and Tigray regions of Ethiopia. It
has two main components: (i) analysis of employment opportunities along small ruminant value chains with
recommendations to enhance job creation and productivity in this value chains; and (ii) support and training
for rural cooperatives and households to start a small ruminant fattening commercial activity.
The information generated by the project will support the scaling up of integrated approaches for livestock
sector development in other part of the country. It will also support the formulation and implementation
of policy interventions for livestock sector development which harness the sector potential for poverty
reduction, through enhanced job creation. These opportunities are fully in line with the recently developed
Ethiopia’s National Livestock Masterplan which foresees important investments in the livestock sector to
meet growing demand for animal source food on the domestic market. FAO, will collaborate with the
Ethiopian Bureau of Livestock to identify most promising investment options for an inclusive transformation
of the small ruminant subsector.
Project start date: July 2013- All expenditures made by 31 August 2016.
Contributes to: Strategic Objective 3, Output 3.1.3.
Main project results (including 2016 results):
•

An assessment of the Employment creation potential in small ruminant value chains in the Ethiopia
Highlands was conducted and published. It is based on a methodology developed with the Tigray
Agricultural Research Institute (TARI) and the Amhara Region Agricultural Research Institute (ARARI).

•

610 households in Amhara and Tigray can now run independently a small ruminant fattening business
and have improved their income and livelihoods. They have increased their skills in small ruminant
fattening and their ability to negotiate prices and access to input supplies and services. They are
organized in producer groups and feed is more accessible thanks to collective action for transport.

•

The information generated by the project informed the implementation of the Ethiopia Livestock
Master Plan (2016), the preparation of a large-scale investment programme for the livestock sector in
Ethiopia by the World Bank, and development and implementation of the Bill &Melinda Gates
Foundation funded programme (MTF/GLO/686/BMG) called «The Small Ruminant Landscaping Grant »
(started in 2016). The regional governments are considering replication in adjacent Woredas and
Kebeles.

•

In both regions, the capacity of rural development agents, researchers from regional research institutes
and the Relief Societies of Tigray (REST) and the Amhara Livestock Resources and Development and
Promotion Agency (ALRDPA), two local implementing partners expert in small ruminant value chains,
have been strengthened.

90

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

•

In both regions, the offices of Agriculture at zonal and Woreda levels have a better understanding of a
successful approach to foster new job opportunities in the small ruminant sub-sector.

•

Access to financial services facilitated by the project generated more membership to Rural Savings and
Credit Cooperatives (RuSaccos), opening new economic opportunities for poor households. The
collaboration established with RUSACCOs to set up revolving funds ensures that fattening activities can
continue and grow overtime.

Project log frame – Outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: Increase in entrepreneurial and employment opportunities for youth and women in
selected small ruminant value chains in Ethiopian high and mid-highlands.
Output 1. A contribution to the establishment of a federal-level Technical Committee for livestock

2015
• Support and contribution to the technical committee for livestock set up in 2014 under the Rural Economic
Development and Food Security Executive Committee, in the Ministry of Agriculture Livestock Directorate.
Output 2. Assessment of entrepreneurial and employment opportunities along small ruminant Value Chains (VC) in
Ethiopian highlands and an analysis of issues and options for job creation in these VC for the government and rural
development stakeholders
2015
• Methodology to assess entrepreneurial and employment opportunities along small ruminant value chains
developed;
• capacity of two Regional Research Institutes79 to conduct large scale surveys integrating livelihood information and
productivity data was strengthened through training and experts’ support;
• assessment of entrepreneurial and employment opportunities along small ruminant value chains undertaken by
the Research Institutes (report finalized in 2016, see below);
• policy context analysis conducted;
• recommendations to enhance job creation and productivity in small ruminant fattening operations developed.
2016
• A Letter of Agreement signed with the International Food Policy Research Institute(IFPRI) in early 2016 to do an
analysis of the demand for labor and job creation potential in Ethiopia’s livestock sector. As IFPRI could not deliver
within the duration of the project, the activity was cancelled but IFPRI is moving forward with the analysis.
• The FAO document Employment creation potential in small ruminant value chains in the Ethiopian Highlands
finalized (publication in 2017).
Output 3. An increase in entrepreneurial and employment opportunities for women and youth groups involved in
activities related to sheep and goat fattening in selected woredas in Tigray and Amhara
2015
• Field activities implemented by REST in Tigray and ORDA in Amhara80;
• 12 Local Rural Saving and Credit Cooperatives (RuSACCOs) trained in financial management and savings
mobilization. The credit scheme was implemented by contracting RuSACCOs;
• revolving credit funds established to set up market-oriented small ruminant fattening businesses;
• training of trainers organized to capacitate the woreda and kebele level development agents on modern fattening
techniques (about 33 and 35 experts trained in Amhara and Tigray region respectively). This cascaded to 610 rural
households who gained technical knowledge and know-how on how to fatten and run small ruminant fattening

79
80

The training was given to respectively 12 and nine researchers from ARARI and TARI researchers/enumerators.
Amhara National Regional State Livestock Resources Development and Promotion Agency and the Relief Society of Tigray

91

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

business and accessed credit facilities to start a small ruminant fattening commercial activity (60 percent
women)81.

Output 3 addressed directly needs of small scale producers with the objective to pilot a holistic approach
for job creation in small ruminant sub sector. Testing the financial viability of the proposed technical package
was part of the process. The package proposed includes a health component (reducing losses due to
diseases) a feed component (making more efficient use of natural resources available) and a husbandry
component (limiting roaming of animals). All these also contribute to a reduction, per animal, of the impact
of livestock production on the environment. There were no new technologies introduced. Instead, the
programme was focusing on making better use of proven, existing technologies and practices for small
ruminant production.
2016
 All 610 households’ beneficiaries were in the third cycle of fattening in August 2016.
 25 new datasheets prepared by the Association Française de Zootechnie (AFZ) on feedstuffs that are particularly
relevant for small ruminant producers in Ethiopia and added in Feedipedia.82
Output 4. A report and briefs written and disseminated which describes the potential of an integrated approach for
supporting generation of decent rural employment opportunities along livestock value chains to reduce poverty.
This will serve as advocacy documents and to identify opportunities for replication and scaling up in and outside of
Ethiopia.
2015
 Multistakeholder consultative workshop organized on initial project and research results;
2016
 The FAO document “Employment creation potential in small ruminant value chains in the Ethiopian Highlands” is
shared on a continuous basis, as and when appropriate;
 The results of the project were made available during the launch of the FAO and Bill and Melinda Gates foundation
“Small ruminant Landscaping” programme in 2016.

81 This activity involved agreements with existing RUSACCOs.
82 www.feedipedia.org is an open access information system on animal feed resources that provides information on nature, occurrence, chemical composition, nutritional value and safe use of
nearly 1400 worldwide livestock feeds (Feedipedia (AFZ, FAO)is the online reference for animal feedstuffs with 6 million page views in the first four years of activity).

92

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

Reduce rural poverty through information, participatory communication and social mobilization for
rural women, men and youth – Dimitra – FMM/GLO/113/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: Dimitra is an information and participatory communication project
whose overarching goal is to improve rural people’s livelihoods and gender equality, and contribute to rural
poverty reduction. It has been implemented since 1998 but has developed over the past ten years an
innovative gender-sensitive participatory communication approach called the Dimitra Clubs. Its specific
objectives are to: (i) improve access to information of rural populations, particularly women and youth; (ii)
enhance their organizational capacities so that they are able to voice their needs and concerns, actively
participate in decision-making and take ownership of their own development; and (iii) increase the use of
gender-sensitive participatory approaches such as the Dimitra Clubs83 to contribute to economic and social
empowerment of rural populations.
The project has demonstrated its impact at country and local levels by promoting rural people’s
empowerment and women’s leadership, encouraging community dialogue and collective action,
stimulating better nutrition and sanitation practices, behavioural changes and increasing women’s access
to productive resources and services, ultimately contributing to poverty reduction. The success of this
approach is confirmed by the great interest it has generated among rural communities, governments,
international agencies and development practitioners.
Project start date: September 2014
Contributes to: SO3, Output 30101
Main 2016 results:
 In 2016, the number of Dimitra Clubs increased from 1,400 to 1,590 including in new countries,
distributed as follows (as of January 2017): Burundi: 30; Ghana: 3684 ; Mali: 30; Senegal: 124; the
Niger: 1,049; RDC: 381. The Clubs involve more than 50, 000 people as members (two thirds are
women) and an estimated 1 million people benefit from the clubs’ activities.
 In Burundi, despite the difficult political situation that prevented the provision of technical support,
the 1,000 members of the Clubs developed their resilience capacities through dialogue and gardening
activities. Several women have emerged as leaders and have joined formal local organizations. Social
issues (gender-based violence) and economic issues (management and distribution of crops) were
resolved thanks to the discussions in the clubs that are recognized as champions for using the good
practices promoted by FAO (kitchen gardens, mushrooms).
 In the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), the 305 Clubs in five provinces of the country obtained
a variety of results: improved social and physical environment (cohesion, peace, sanitation, hygiene,
etc.); better organizational capacities for collective action; greater awareness of gender roles and
relations; elimination of food taboos and importance of nutrition; strengthening of technical capacities
in vegetable gardening and fish farming (Kinshasa Province); access to land and natural resources and
information (South Kivu).In the process, 200 new social leaders (two thirds of women)have been
trained as well as the staff from 18 community radios.
The FAO DIMITRA Clubs are groups of women, men and young people – mixed or not – who decide to organize themselves so as
to work together to bring about changes in their communities. They meet regularly to discuss the challenges they face in their daily
lives, make decisions and take action to resolve their problems.
84 In Ghana, the 36 existing clubs have not received any support in 2016, as they are autonomous
83

93

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

 In Mali, following a request by FAO-Bamako and an exploratory mission, 30 Dimitra Clubs have been
set up in Bandiagara, in the framework of a Germany-funded FAO project on resilience and nutrition
in Mopti. The clubs were created at the end of 2016 and the dynamics has already given good results
in terms of social cohesion, women’s leadership, and participation of the rural communities in village
decisions to improve livelihoods.
 In the Niger, the 1,049 Dimitra Clubs in five different regions continue to enhance women’s leadership,
access to land, improved agriculture techniques and active participation of the poorest in economic
and social life of the communities. In most targeted villages, the clubs have boosted education, both
for girls and boys, and adults. The methodological alliance between Farmer Field Schools (FSS) and
Dimitra Clubs is under way through interactions of 70 new FFS with the clubs to exchange on new
climate-smart agriculture techniques. In the context of a UN Joint programme on women’s economic
empowerment, the Dimitra Clubs have been confirmed as entry point at village level for all the
activities, after a participatory stock-taking by the communities.
 In Senegal, a GEF-funded Climate resilience Project was launched in October by FAO Senegal. National
capacity development has already begun and enabled the creation of 60 Dimitra Clubs (out of 400 to
be set up during the entire project), in connection with FFS.
 In general, there is increasing awareness by the governments and development practitioners regarding
the role, achievements and impact achieved by the Dimitra Clubs in the field. This has led to a
multiplication of partnerships, requests by governments, FAO and partners to implement the Clubs
approach and new funding opportunities for upscaling the approach in several countries (ex: World
Bank and Government in the Niger (the PASEC project), African Solidarity Trust Fund (ASTF) in DRC,
German Cooperation in Mali).

Project log frame – Outcomes, outputs, activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: Rural women, men, including youth, are empowered and have improved their
livelihoods
Output 1. Development stakeholders, at all levels, are aware of the key role and use of gender-sensitive
and participatory communication approaches to empower rural communities and of their impact for
reducing rural poverty and increasing gender equality
2015.Dimitra knowledge products disseminated to 12 000 civil society organizations and individuals.
• two Dimitra Newsletters (issues 26 and 27) published and disseminated in English and French;
• a two-pager on key features and principles of Dimitra Clubs disseminated;
• a series of videos produced on the impact of the Dimitra Clubs in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and the
Niger on access to land and water, food security and nutrition, community mobilization, women leaders;
• a video produced and shown in the Niger on the United Nations Joint Programme on Rural Women’s Economic
Empowerment (RWEE) demonstrating the crucial role of the Dimitra Clubs as entry point in the programme;
• a video on the impact of the Dimitra Clubs on poverty reduction prepared;
• Dimitra’s results showcased in numerous publications, FAO Web sites and online forums;
• high-level workshop on the first results of the RWEE Joint Programme organized in the Niger.
Advocacy and capacity development activities on the Dimitra Clubs and gender-sensitive approaches included:
participation and presentation in international events (EXPO Milan, COP12 on Desertification), conferences, FAO
Council, workshops and knowledge fairs and the Organization of a round table with United Nations Agencies, Ministers,
grassroots community representatives, NGOs in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
2016

94

-----------------------Page 109 End-----------------------

Production of Dimitra knowledge/information materials on the use of gender-sensitive participatory approaches and
their impact for reducing rural poverty and increasing gender equality, including:
• Two Dimitra Newsletters published and disseminated (hard copies and e-newsletter) in both English and French
to 12,000 civil society organizations and individuals (in Africa and elsewhere).
• Last video of the series of Dimitra videos produced, focusing on the functioning the Clubs (English and French).
• Series of video interviews of rural people and governmental officials produced, focusing on the Clubs’ impact on
livelihoods in the Niger, shown at event “Zoom sur les Clubs Dimitra de la FAO” (Niamey, May 2016).
• Dimitra’s results showcased in various FAO publications, websites and events
• Paper ‘FAO Dimitra Clubs – boosting rural women’s empowerment using information and communication
technologies’ published in the “A Better World” series.
• Survey on the use of the participatory methodology of the Dimitra Clubs on nutritional education in the Niger.
Advocacy activities included:
 Dimitra Video on Food Security and Nutrition selected to showcase FAO’s contribution to gender and
empowerment and commemorate the International Women’s Day 2016 at WFP (Rome, March 2016)
 Dimitra approach and field results presented at international events such as the European Development Days (June
2016), the International Symposium on Sustainable Food Systems for Healthy Diets and Improved Nutrition (Rome,
December 2016), the UN Women Share Fair on Resilience (Nairobi, November 2016), etc.
 Series of workshops “Zoom sur les Clubs Dimitra » held in Senegal, DRC, CAR, Mali and the Niger to present the
clubs to a variety of stakeholders.
 Stocktaking workshop organized on the Dimitra Clubs as entry point of the Joint programme on Economic
empowerment of rural women (RWEE) in the Niger (December 2016).
2017
• Continued production of innovative knowledge products, advocacy and communication activities.
Output 2. Rural populations, in particular women and youth, have improved their organizational capacities,
representation and voice
2015
• Support was provided to countries in the areas of capacity development, backstopping, policy advice and dialogue,
technical support, data gathering, facilitation of partnerships, advocacy, and communication;
• global, regional and country-level support for capacity development on the use of gender-sensitive participatory
communication and rural people's empowering approaches;
• numerous training workshops organized at different levels in Burundi, Ghana, the Niger, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo and Senegal, and for the facilitators of the Dimitra Clubs and for government institutions, POs, and
other stakeholders to support the implementation and upscaling of Dimitra clubs;
• forums of Dimitra Clubs organized in Burundi, Ghana, the Niger and Senegal to reflect on lessons learnt;
• following a RWEE workshop, an exchange and knowledge-sharing platform set-up in the Niger by and for local
implementing NGOs.
2016
• Support provided to countries in the areas of capacity development, backstopping, policy advice and dialogue,
technical support, data gathering and information, facilitation of partnerships, advocacy, and communication.
• Numerous training workshops organized at different levels in the Niger, DR Congo, Senegal and Mali. It is estimated
that at least 10,000 people (women, men and youth), comprising representatives from the clubs, the
administrative and traditional authorities, the government decentralized offices, the civil society have been trained
on a variety of themes, always with a gender perspective, such as organizational skills, climate smart agriculture,
nutrition, aquaculture, small-scale farming, micro-finance, radio production, etc.
Output 3. Partnerships are developed to promote rural women’s and men’s empowerment, women’s leadership,
gender equality, social mobilization and local governance, notably through the DIMITRA Clubs’ approach
2015

95

-----------------------Page 110 End-----------------------

•

There has been an increase of partnerships within FAO and with other stakeholders (governments, NGOs, other
United Nations Agencies), in different technical areas: resilience and CSA project (Senegal and the Niger, farmers
field schools, government); gender-based violence (the Democratic Republic of the Congo, UNICEF and
government); nutrition (Burundi, FFS); rural women’s people empowerment (the Niger, government, IFAD, the
World Food Programme [WFP] and United Nations-Women).
2016
 New partnerships established, through the integration of the Dimitra approach in new projects.
DRC: Autonomisation des femmes Rurales dans le programme agricole (RWEAP), funded by the African Solidary
Trust Fund (ASTF); Stabilization of Priority Post-Conflict Areas -Transitional Development through Agricultural Value
Chains& Livelihood Recovery and Diversification- Purchase for Progress- Nord Kivu (WFP), funding by Germany;
Strengthening Smallholder Farmers’ Value Chains in the DRC - Purchase for Progress, Tanganyika (WFP), funded by
Sweden;Paix Résilience Equité pour l’Avenir à Kitshanga, Nord Kivu, by MONUSCO.
Mali: Améliorer la résilience et la nutrition de populations vulnérables au Mali-GCP/MLI/041/GER, by Germany
The Niger :PASEC (Projet d’appui à l’agriculture sensible aux risques climatiques) (2017-2023), by Government
under a World Bank Loan, Government-FAO UTF « Assistance technique de la FAO au PASEC » (2017-2023).
FAO-Headquarters: South-South Cooperation interest to fund exchanges of Dimitra Clubs from the Niger with
self-help groups from India (Self-employment Women’s Association - SEWA),
 Further scaling-up of the approach is the pipeline, in the context of several projects in the following countries:
Central African Republic, DRC, Mali, Myanmar, the Niger.
 An agreement between FAO and the DRC Ministry of Agriculture signed for the National Extension Services to be
trained on the Dimitra approach.
2017
• Multiplication of synergies and collaboration with new partners.
Lessons learned








Uncertainty of funding for the last year of the biennium has hampered the programming and
partnerships efforts.
The allocation received for 2017 was unexpectedly reduced by half and forced the project to drastically
diminish its support in the field, review its planning, turn down new requests, and eliminate key
activities foreseen for the last year (impact study, international exchange visits, national forums).
FMM modalities are interesting and flexible, which helps projects to grow and have impact. However,
it would be useful in the future to foresee a three or four-year FMM together with a dedicated budget
for the entire projected time-span.
Lessons learned from project implementation include the need to (i) have an international unit to
continue working not only on backstopping but also on advocacy at government level, building of
partnerships and collecting and sharing of experiences; (ii)have qualitative and quantitative evidence
of the impact at field level; (iii)appropriate responses to new requests related to the integration of ICTs
as enablers and of specific projects to contribute to peace-building.

96

-----------------------Page 111 End-----------------------

Integrated Country Approach (ICA) for DRE - FMM/GLO/100/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: FAO’s ICA provides strategic support to member countries to make the
restructuring of the agricultural sector and the diversification of the rural economy more effective in
creating better jobs in rural areas, in particular for young people.
At country level, the ICA programme has the main objective to enhance the employment content and youth
focus of policies and programmes for agricultural and rural development. The entire approach is geared
towards sustainable policy change and places emphasis on strengthening the capacities of national
institutions responsible for agriculture and labor to promote more and better jobs for the youth in rural
areas.
At regional and global level, the approach contributes to develop and share knowledge and good practices
and to influence regional and global initiatives on agricultural and rural development.
The project replicates the ICA approach implemented under a pilot phase in Malawi and Tanzania (20112013) in three countries (Guatemala, Senegal, and Uganda) with a view to reviewing and adapting the
methodology according to the specific country contexts and to further up scaling.
Project start date: June 2015.
Contributes to: SO3, Outputs 3.2.1 and 3.2.3.
Main 2016 results:
 There is an increased knowledge on the performance of youth programmes, on the adoption of labor
standard in the sector and youth aspirations as regards to working in rural areas thanks to several
assessments conducted jointly with national counterparts in all three countries.
 In Senegal, the foundations have been laid for the development of a National Observatory of Rural
Employment (ONER)responsible for the monitoring of labor market, data collection and management
in agricultural sectors, and rural youth access to market information on agricultural products.
 Several policy processes have focused on DRE promotion or strengthened their youth employment
dimension thanks to FAO’s policy advice, including the National Rural Youth Employment Policy in
Senegal, the National Decent Work Policy in Guatemala and the Youth in Agriculture Strategy in
Uganda.
 The capacities of national stakeholders to promote decent rural youth employment were further
strengthened through training and technical support.
 Several capacity development tools have been finalized and will be used in 2017 to train FAO’s staff,
including an e-learning on DRE, a global DRE policy database and a Guidance document on
mainstreaming decent rural employment in the strategic planning of agricultural development.
 Additional operational partnership, giving preference to youth-led organizations have been
established.

97

-----------------------Page 112 End-----------------------

Project log frame – outcome, outputs and activities conducted (2015–2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome: The three targeted countries have improved policies, sectoral strategies and programmes for
agricultural and rural development that optimize the contribution of the agricultural sector to generate DRE and
diversify livelihoods for rural young women and men
Output 1.1: FAO’s ICA for promoting DRE is tailored to the three targeted countries (Guatemala, Senegal and
Uganda) with focus on rural young women and men
2015
• Strategic level of communication with key counterparts in all three countries established and policy processes to
support agreed;

•

Initial assessments completed (including country profiles) to guarantee evidence-based policy support.

Output 1.2: Knowledge is generated on DRE/youth employment issues specific to the targeted countries to be used
as a basis for policy and strategic planning and capacity development
2015
• Knowledge gaps identified and partnerships established with national research institutes and national statistics
offices to initiate research activities;
• Guatemala: LoA established with think-thank Asociación de investigación y studios sociales(ASIES) to develop a
youth employment diagnostic in the Department of San Marcos;
• in all three countries: (i) legal studies initiated on the application of labor standards in rural areas, with a focus
on young people; and (iii) analysis of national approaches for youth employment promotion initiated.
2016
Guatemala -Rural employment diagnostics, and analysis and dissemination of information on rural youth available in
the ENCOVI 2014 (Encuesta Nacional de Condiciones de Vida - 2014, Instituto Nacional de Estadística –INE,2016).
 Diagnosis of rural youth employment in the department of San Marcos, published by FAO and ASIES (see news);
 Diagnóstico para la formulación de políticasactivas de empleo con enfoqueen la ocupación rural juvenile en 5
municipios de San Marcos, published by FAO and the Labor Market Observatory of the Ministry of Labor
(MINTRAB);
 Niñez y adolescencia rural ocupadaen la agricultura (Infografia) published by FAO and Labor Market Observatory
of MINTRAB;
Uganda - Assessment of the relevance and potential for upscaling of ongoing youth approaches and programmes,
and technical support for the mainstreaming of youth/gender/employment issues in national agricultural survey tools
and administrative data collection tools of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAAIF).
 Agricultural Annual Survey tools finalized and validated in collaboration with the Bureau of Statistics (UBOS);
 70 MAAIF administrative data collection tools developed or reviewed.
 Full report published: “Analysis of Existing Approaches for Youth in Agriculture in Uganda”, FAO, 2016.
Senegal - Development of a National Observatory of Rural Employment (ONER) and diagnostic to support the
engagement of local government authorities in employment-related planning.




Conceptualization and technical setup of the National Observatory of Rural Employment (ONER), to be based at
the Agence Nationale pour la Promotion de l'Emploi des Jeunes (ANPEJ), to ensure the monitoring of labor
market, data collection and management in agricultural sector, and rural youth access to market information
regarding agricultural products. LoA signed (ongoing) with the youth –led organization YeesalAgri Hub, which
promotes innovation in agriculture, and with a Kenyan learning and development center (IRES)for south-south
cooperation (SSC) technical support and training of the youth developers from YassalAgri-Hub in February 2017;
Digital Map developed mapping all youth agriculture-related projects and youth and broader youth employment
and rural development programmes;

98

-----------------------Page 113 End-----------------------




Field assessment of existing rural youth employment programmes conducted in collaboration with the Ministry
of Youth, to identify lessons learned and success stories, and stimulate synergies among different programmes;
Study of the Integration Strategy of Decent Work in the process of Local Development Planning completed to
inform the implementation of the National Policy of Youth Employment Promotion in Rural Areas" (PPEJMR) and
align it with the National Decentralization Policy.

In all three countries: Legal studies (one per country) on the application of labor standards in rural areas, with a focus
on the legal barriers for faced by youth in the agriculture sector.
2017
Uganda
 Finalization of study on adolescents and school dropouts (14-17 age group) in rural areas, to address their current
exclusion from national programmes on youth employment (which target youth from the age of 18);
 Continuous support to agricultural statistics: pretesting of MAAIF administrative data tools developed and
support to UBOS to develop Agricultural Census Tools;
 Assessment of Occupation Safety and Health (OSH) hazards in agriculture and development of OSH safeguards
and inspection guidelines in agriculture.
Guatemala
 Infography Jóvenesrurales y empleoen el sector agricola published by FAO and MINTRAB;
 Policy brief to be developed to disseminate existing FAO/ASIES analysis of public policies and programmes for
decent rural youth employment in Guatemala.
Senegal
 Training for field researchers and data collectors of the ONER and for the web developers/IT team of the ONER
project, on how to design mobile application with Open Data Kit (ODK) and store data on the cloud;
 Technical validation and official launch of both the ONER and the Digital map.
Senegal and Guatemala:



Finalization of ongoing FAO analyses of existing approaches for youth in agriculture and publication of
corresponding full reports and/or policy briefs (as already achieved in Uganda, using a common methodology).

Output 1.3: National capacities are increased to develop and implement employment-enhancing
agricultural and rural development policies, strategies and programmes, with focus on rural young
women and men
2015
• General awareness raising activities conducted (at least a national workshop per country);
• FAO-ILO Training workshop organized on child labor prevention in agriculture towards decent youth
employment, for 30 participants from agriculture and labor institutions from Mali, the Niger and Senegal;
• capacities development tools under development including an e-learning on DRE, a global DRE policy database
and a Guidance document on mainstreaming DRE in the strategic planning of agricultural development;
• Senegal: policy advice provided for the drafting of the National Policy on Rural Youth Employment.
• Uganda: policy advice and support to the drafting of a dedicated National Strategy for Youth in Agriculture, and
for the inclusion of youth employment considerations the new Extension policy and strategy and statistic tools
of the Ministry of agriculture and UBOS.
2016
The presence of dedicated national coordinators in each FAO country office guaranteed peer-to-peer support to
national staff working on agriculture or labor issues, and easier channelling of broader FAO technical support.
Guatemala
 Technical support to the formulation of the National Decent Work Policy, coordinated by the Ministry of Labor
(MINTRAB) (launch foreseen: Feb 2017), FAO is a member of the working group on rural employment;
 Regular technical support to the roundtable to develop the Rural Employment Strategy for the department of
San Marcos (monthly meetings the establishment of the roundtable in June 2016);

99

-----------------------Page 114 End-----------------------



Technical negotiations held with the ministry of Labor (MINTRAB), the main territorial authority in San Marcos
(the Asociación de Desarrollo Integral de Municipalidades del Altiplano Marquense (ADIMAM) and 5
municipalities to pilot a dedicated rural-focused employment window (VUME rural) within the frame of the
national employment window system.
Uganda
 Technical support provided to the Technical Working Group (TWG) established for developing the Youth in
Agriculture Strategy. Four regional consultations conducted (with strong involvement of youth groups).
 Members of the MAAIF M&E technical working group (TWG) trained in M&E to support the development of the
results Matrix and update the M&E Plan of the Agricultural sector strategic plan (ASSP);
 Technical support provided to the MAAIF-M&E Division to complete the Agriculture Sector Strategic Plan (ASSP)
results framework. Two workshops were organized (June and November 2016);
 30 technical staff from UBOS and MAAIF staff, civil society organizations and academia trained on gender and
age-disaggregation for agricultural statistics (June 2016);
 39 officers from agricultural, labor and local government institutions, youth associations and civil society
organization trained on child labor prevention in agriculture towards decent youth employment (Dec 2016).
 Technical support for the development of the extension policy and corresponding strategy (endorsed) –
dedicated capacity development activities planned for 2017.
Senegal
 Business Competition for youth innovators in agribusiness in the framework of a regional Road Show85to raise
awareness on rural youth employment and identify good practices of youth rural initiatives in agriculture
transforming them into champions to attract other youth towards agriculture (24 youth identified and supported
through ANPEJ's contribution Fund for Youth Entrepreneurship and with coaching and business development
services – 10 of them were women) – (28-29April, Zinguichor)
 The 24 winners of the business competition trained on “Rural Entrepreneurship and Economic Development”;
 Second edition of the Annual Forum on Rural Youth Decent Employment organized with ANPEJ. The theme for
2016 was «Travail Décent et Entreprenariat des Jeunes en milieu rural: outils et connaissances pratiques»86.;
 Conceptualization, with ICA partners, of the Modèle d’Insertion des Jeunes dans l’Agriculture (MIJA) platform
approach for youth support in agribusiness, including realization of initial assessments of infrastructure needs.
2017
Guatemala
 Development of training materials, ToTs, and provision of coaching and peer support to enhance the capacities
of the MoA (MAGA) Extension department DICORER and/or other providers of rural services to accompany their
planned adaptation of the extension and rural services’ system to a youth-friendly version;
 Support to the development and implementation of a Strategy for youth DRE in San Marcos.
Senegal
 Development of training materials, ToTs, and provision of coaching and peer support to strengthen the capacities
of Local Government Authorities(LGAs) and youth groups within the main umbrella PO in Senegal (Collège des
Jeunes of CNRC) on DRE aspects in strategic planning and how to enhance youth inclusion in agri-food systems;
 Formulating a “Strategy for the Harmonization of Actions and the Development of Synergies” within the frame
of the National Policy of Youth Employment Promotion in Rural Areas" (PPEJMR);
 Development of training curricula and ToTs based on the JFFLS approach for the Poultry and Horticulture Clusters
in the frame of FPEC “Vocational Training Employability and Competitiveness” Programme.
Uganda
 Technical support to the validation, dissemination and implementation of the Youth in Agriculture strategy;
85
86

see video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7qGwv5ZF7hI&feature=youtu.be
See Link Vidéo FORED couverture de la télévisionnationale RTS : https://youtu.be/VbQN91adeWk; and

press
reviews
at
http://onusenegal.org/2eme-Forum-sur-l-emploi-decent-des-jeunes-en-milieu-rural-FORED-Promouvoir-l.html;
http://www.lesoleil.sn/2016-03-22-23-29-31/item/59337-forum-sur-l-emploi-decent-des-jeunes-en-milieu-rural-l-agriculture-une-reponse-a-laproblematique-du-sous-emploi.html;
http://www.lequotidien.sn/forum-emploi-decent-milieu-rural-jeunes-orientes-vers-lentreprenariat/;
http://aps.sn/actualites/economie/article/entreprenariat-des-jeunes-le-dg-de-l-anpej-propose-une-plateforme-pour-une-meilleure-suivie-des-actions).

100

-----------------------Page 115 End-----------------------







Support the agricultural fisheries policy and its implementation strategy in integrating labor considerations;
Training for extension workers and Operation Wealth Creation officials in the areas of agricultural extensions,
postharvest handling and input use putting into consideration of decent work for youth;
Development of a tool for OSH-related risk assessment in the agricultural sector, and training for the ICA
stakeholders and youth themselves on related Inspections Guidelines; Development of OSH Documentary in
Agriculture; Sensitize rural institutions and youth in agriculture on the OSH Hazards;
Support and promote exchanges where youth can inspire other youth, especially on how to overcome
challenges (identification of youth role models in agriculture to give motivational talks to fellow youth and
connecting youth with peers who have successfully made it, and eventually producing a youth documentary).

Output 1.4 National and private institutions implement pilot approaches to promote rural youth employment87
2017
 Guatemala: i) Development of a communication for development package to support the engagement of the
rural youth in the agricultural sector; ii) Support the enhancement and expansion of selected existing initiatives
for youth skills development in agriculture into a more integrated pilot approach for youth employment
promotion in agri-food systems.
 Senegal: Piloting of two MIJA platforms: out of the 20 JFAs currently in place, FAO-ICA will directly support in
2017 the upgrade of two of them (respectively in Silane, Diourbel region and Gandon, Saint Louis region);
 Uganda: Pilot youth friendly financial mechanisms, within the frame of the forthcoming MoU between FAO and
Rabobank and the ongoing FAO assessment of existing financial mechanisms for supporting youth
entrepreneurship.
Outcome 2: FAO’s capacity to support countries on DRE is enhanced, particularly in regional and sub regional
offices in Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC)and with focus on rural young women and men
Output 2.1: FAO’s staff in headquarters and decentralized offices in Africa and LAC are trained and equipped with
tools for promoting DRE/youth employment
2015
• Strengthening of FAO Senegal, Guatemala and Uganda capacities on DRE: recruitment of full-time consultant in
each country office, training of one staff from each country office;
• Mainstreaming of decent work considerations in corporate processes such as: (i) the FAO Environmental and
Social Management Guidelines (2015) (see also DGB/2015/08); and ii) the FAO Project Cycle and its
corresponding screening and reporting tools where decent work is a defining factor of sustainability.
2016
• Support to the piloting of the FAO Environmental and Social Management Guidelines and FAO Project Cycle.
More than 15 interregional/global projects supported in integrating DRE considerations.
• E-learning course developed in English on Promoting productive employment and decent work in rural areas (7
lessons), including one lesson dedicated to FAO staff88;
• Guidance material finalized: Incorporating decent rural employment in the strategic planning for agricultural
development;
• Support to the regional office for Africa (RAF) in the development of a regional programme entitled Youth
Employment: enabling decent agriculture and agri-business jobs. The programme has been proposed by RAF as
new Special Programme for the next medium term (2018-21);

New output corresponding to additional activities to be conducted with the additional FMM top-up funding received for 2017.
Titles of the DRE e-learning course lessons: 1. Understanding employment and decent work in rural areas: concepts and
definitions; 2. The centrality of employment and decent work for agricultural development, poverty reduction and food and
nutrition security; 3. Youth employment in agriculture; 4. Rural women’s empowerment in the context of the decent work agenda;
5. Preventing and reducing child labor in agriculture; 6. Integrating employment and decent work in agricultural policies, strategies
and programmes; and 6 (only for FAO staff) Mainstreaming employment and decent work in FAO work.
87
88

101

-----------------------Page 116 End-----------------------

Technical support to the formulation of the African Union (AU) First Five Year Programme (5YPP) on Employment,
Poverty, Eradication and Inclusive Development.
2017
• Launch and dissemination of the DRE e-learning course and guidance materials developed;
• Support to RAF in the launch and set-up phase of the new Special Programme on Youth Employment (Regional
Workshop planned for April 2017), in the frame of the implementation of the AU First Five Year Programme
(5YPP) on Employment, Poverty, Eradication and Inclusive Development;
• At least one capacity development workshop planned for 2017 for the Africa region, as part of the set-up phase
of the RAF new Special Programme on Youth Employment;
• At least one regional dialogue or capacity development workshop supported in the Latin America and Caribbean
(LAC) region in 2017.
•

Output 2.2FAO’s ICA Toolbox and policy database are made operational within the FAO DRE Web site to support
their application by decentralized offices

2015
• FAO policy database including ten country and regional profiles available on FAO intranet.
2016
Public policy database on Employment and decent work launched on FAO website (more than 400 entries);
Internal policy database (FAO staff only) regularly updated and expanded, covering at the moment 3 regional
profiles and 12 country profiles;
• FAO Toolbox launched on FAO website, currently covering 5 modules (1. Setting an ICA approach; evidence and
advocacy; youth employment; child labor; and women and decent work).
2017
• Expansion of FAO policy databases;
• Formalization of interinstitutional agreements to increase the outreach of FAO Policy databases;
•
•

•

Expansion of the FAO Toolbox, adding at least 3 new modules by end 2017.

Lessons learned:
The ICA project is the second phase of a project implemented from 2011 to 2014 in Malawi and Tanzania,
also with FMM funding. The project benefits from the lessons learnt identified in the previous
implementation, which refer mainly to the following aspects: i) the need to identify very selected entry
points for policy advice instead of spreading resources too thin by trying to influence the full spectrum of
policy processes; ii) the importance of recruiting national coordinators with more technical qualifications
on employment issues instead of mere coordination experience in order to offer a stronger support to the
FAO country offices; iii) the need to identify champions and key partners since the inception phase to
smooth implementation; iv) the importance of harnessing the role of the Ministry of Labor as ally in the
mainstreaming of decent work issues in the agricultural sector.
These lessons had been documented in a case study (available at the following link:
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i3725e.pdf) and have been carefully addressed in the second phase of the
programme with very good results.
A further challenge identified and reported in 2015 was the difficulty of operating only at the strategic and
policy level, with very limited field implementation capacity due to the relatively limited funding of the
programme (3 million USD for three countries). This challenge has been addressed by linking to ongoing or
planned large-scale programmes, like the AfDB ENABLE Youth regional programme, and by directly
mobilizing additional FMM resources (560,000 USD for small pilots in 2017).

102

-----------------------Page 117 End-----------------------

Global Initiative on Food Loss and Waste Reduction - FMM/GLO/103/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: The problem of FLW is of such magnitude and complexity that it cannot
be addressed by one organization alone. Worldwide, many initiatives are currently being taken to reduce
losses and waste but there is a lack of coordination and collaboration, also potential overlapping and
duplication. In addition, as the body of evidence and understanding is developed, lessons learned, new
findings and best practices should be easily accessible to all those working on the matter.
This project aims to: (i) increase awareness on the causes, impact and approaches to reduce food losses;
(ii) enhance collaboration and synergy of initiatives on Food loss reduction; and (iii) increase adoption of
good practices to reduce Food losses in specific value chains. It will do so by providing a platform for
centralizing and sharing information (Save Food Web site and associated products)89, developing analysis,
creating necessary coordination mechanisms and supporting capacity building on FLW Reduction.
This FMM project is not a stand-alone project, but provides support to activities and projects under the
umbrella of the Global Initiative on FLW Reduction (Save Food).
Contributes to: SO4, Output 4.2.2.
Project start date: 1 August 2013.
Main 2016 results:
•
•

•

•

the Save Food network of partners has almost doubled in size since last year – about 1 000 members,
many of which are engaged in the Community of Practice on FL;
the Save Food Initiative remains in a leadership position as the main coordinator and facilitator of
worldwide initiatives on FLW reduction, minimizing duplication, sharing resources experience and
knowledge and subsequently stimulating collaborative action by public and private partners to reduce
FLW;
FAO continued its collaboration with partners in particular to develop educational materials for school
children on FW presentation, on the development of the FAO Global Food Loss Index and on the EU
platform on FW reduction.
Field case study conducted on the causes and solutions for food loss in Andhra Pradesh (India). The
skills of 15 researchers were strengthened to conduct assessments and analysis of food losses.

Project log frame– Outcomes, outputs and activities conducted (2015 & 2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcome 1. Increased knowledge of the causes and impact of food losses, and approaches to reduce
them
Output 1.1 Database and catalogue of information and knowledge sources on Food losses
Output completed last year by improving and updating the Information on Post-harvest Operations site
(www.fao.org/inpho).
Output 1.2 Information analysis and dissemination to members of FLW network

89

Save Food is a central point providing a global overview of information on FW related issues and action to reduce FW, which
enhances sharing of resources, experiences and knowledge, and subsequently collaborative action to reduce FW.

103

-----------------------Page 118 End-----------------------

2015 and 2016
 Analysis and reporting of research information (on effects of date marking on food waste, socio-economic
impact of food waste, policies for food recovery and redistribution, legislation on food donation, field case
studies to food loss) conducted;
 developing tools and protocol for FLW assessment and measurement in collaboration with WRI;
 information on food losses generated (through internet and literature research, participation in workshops,
conferences, meetings) and disseminated;
 information dissemination through engagement in new platforms on FLW reduction, update of Save Food
Web site and issuance of Save Food newsletter.
OUTCOME 2. Enhanced collaboration and synergy of initiatives on food loss reduction
Output 2.1 An interactive global platform established including Communities of Practice sharing information
and coordinating activities on food loss reduction
2015
• Support provided to the development and/or launching of new platforms or communities on FLW reduction
(Food Waste Think Tank, LAC Regional Alliance on FLW, the G20 Technical Platform on FLW Measurement
and Reduction, Champions 12.3 platform).
2016
• Developing an outline and modality of work for the Food Waste Think Tank by the Danish Stop Food Waste
movement.
• Supporting participation of countries in the LAC Regional Alliance on FLW.
• Engagement in the organization of the Champions 12.3 platform and the EU platform on FW reduction.
• Promoting and expanding membership of the Save Food network.
2017
• Continue promoting and expanding membership of the Save Food network.
Output 2.2 Partnerships and collaboration of global and regional initiatives on food loss reduction involving
public and private organizations and companies
2015
• The successful communication campaign and partnership network of the Save Food Initiative has resulted in
a number of concrete partnerships with public and private organizations and companies, acting to reduce
FLW: the International Food Waste Coalition (IFWC) to develop educational materials for school children on
FW prevention; the ADM Institute for the Prevention of Postharvest Loss, organizing the First International
Congress on Postharvest Loss Prevention; Industria Macchina Automatiche (Italian Manufacturer of food
packaging machinery), and the International Trade Centre (ITC) on food packing in Africa;
• Global Coalition for Cold Chain Development in Developing Countries established.
2016
• Continued collaboration with the IFWC to develop educational materials for school children on FW prevention
and with the ITC on a project on food packing in Africa.
• Coordinated action by FAO-ESS (Statistics), the World Resources Institute (WRI) and other partners to support
FAO’s Global Food Loss Index.
• New project proposal with WRI on implementing the Champions 12.3 programme.
• MoU with the EU for FAO to support the EU Platform on FW Reduction
OUTCOME 3. Increased adoption of good practices to reduce food losses in specific food supply chains, on a
(sub)regional basis
Output 3.1 Critical points for food loss reduction identified and viable solutions formulated
2015

104

-----------------------Page 119 End-----------------------

•

Case studies to assess the extent, impact and causes of food losses in developing countries, and formulate
sustainable solutions conducted in Burkina Faso (grains), Cameroun and Indonesia (fisheries).

2016
• Improving the methodology for field case studies to FL.
• Field case study on the causes and solutions for food loss in Andhra Pradesh (India) with Messe Düsseldorf
(donor) and Sathguru (consultant).
Output 3.2 Potential solutions promoted and up-scaled
In 2016, the project has not directly supported activities of pilot implementation of FL reduction.
Output 3.3 Capacity of multistakeholders strengthened to define and implement food loss reduction
2015
• Training materials (e-learning) in FL assessment developed;
• capacity building activities conducted targeted in most cases participant/beneficiaries of other food losses
reduction projects: ToTs workshops in 13 Caribbean Community Secretariat member countries, training of
national government staff in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo on post-harvest
management, training of actors in cassava supply chains in food losses reduction in Cameroon and of actors
in fisheries in post-harvest fish handling in Angola.
2016
• Development of educational materials for school children on FW prevention.
• Preparation of training (e-learning) materials in FL assessment.
• Skills of 15 researchers strengthened to conduct assessments and analysis of food losses and provide solutions
for mango, rice, milk and chickpea in Andhra Pradesh, India.
• Support to capacity building in policy development and food waste reduction strategies, through research
and pilot projects.

Lessons learned
The FMM project is not a stand-alone project, but provides support to activities and projects under the
umbrella of the Global Initiative on FLW Reduction (Save Food), as and when there is a need and an
opportunity for a meaningful supplementation of these project activities. Given the limit of available
resource, the challenge is to make the right choice and prioritize the allocation of FMM funds to the Save
Food Initiative. The Initiative could easily double or triple its activities and outputs by covering a wider
geographical scope and more intensively engaging with more external initiatives.
The FMM has been invaluable and of critical importance to the success of the Save Food Initiative, in a
situation where FAO’s Regular Programme provisions (staff and funds) are declining and at the same time
the interest in, need and requests for leadership and action to reduce FLW continues to increase. The FMM
funding is particularly useful because it has the flexibility to apply it where and when needed; other donor
funds support specific activities with a specific focus in specific countries.

105

-----------------------Page 120 End-----------------------

Enable women to benefit more equally from agrifood value chains - FMM/GLO/103/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: By developing women’s capacities and fostering an enabling
environment, the project aims at expanding women’s economic opportunities and benefits from more
efficient and inclusive agrifood chains, triggering multiplier effects on food and nutrition security, education
and health.
The project adopts an integrated approach, focusing on field level (training, provision of equipment, etc.),
while also addressing structural inequalities which hamper women from equally and profitably participating
in and benefit from value chain development (i.e. promoting policies to enhance equitable advisory service
provision; access to innovation and adapted technologies (including labor-saving ones), knowledge, skills,
and incentives).
Project start date: February 201590.
Contributes to: SO4, Output 4.2.3 and Output 6.3.1.
Main 2016 Results:
Strengthening women’s active involvement in value chains and access to and control of resources
 Finalization of eleven Gender Sensitive Value Chain (GSVC) assessments to identify gender gaps

and opportunities for value chain development support in the following value chains: fisheries
(Burkina Faso, Tunisia, Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire), dairy (Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda), cassava (Côte
d’Ivoire), tomato (Ethiopia), tropical fruits (Kenya) and cross border trade, with focus on fisheries and
horticulture (Rwanda).
 Labor-saving adapted technologies, equipment and facilities to ensure efficient value addition,
improved food safety and hygiene delivered to empower women along selected value chains in Burkina
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Rwanda and Tunisia
 About 3,200 people (from women associations, small-scale enterprises, platforms and cooperatives) in
Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Rwanda and Tunisia learned new skills and
developed their capacities for the development of gender sensitive and efficient value chains.
Institutional strengthening and policy advocacy for promoting gender-sensitive agrifood value chains
 Enhanced policy dialogue on VC development and women empowerment in Burkina Faso (fisheries),
Tunisia (fisheries), Ethiopia (Horticulture), Kenya (horticulture) and Rwanda (small scale border trade).
 In Tunisia, the yearly “Arrêté ministériel” which lays down the conditions for fishing and market
placement of clams was revised to ensure fair marketing practices. An equitable and fair relationship
was established between women groups and a private clam importer.
 Extension officers from the Ministry of Fisheries in Côte d’Ivoire have now the capacity to conduct
gender sensitive value chain analysis and process relevant data. In Burkina Faso, thirty professionals
from the fisheries ministry were trained in the gender sensitive approach in fisheries.

 In Kenya, members of the task force in charge for reviewing the national livestock policy have
a better understanding of how to mainstream gender in policy formulation. A multi-stakeholder
policy platform has been set up to foster advocacy to institutions on major constraints faced
by women in tropical fruit value chains to access markets.

90

The project started effectively in September 2015 with the arrival of the project coordinator.

106

-----------------------Page 121 End-----------------------

Development of knowledge products and training and advocacy materials on gender-sensitive value
chains
 The hand-book “Developing gender-sensitive value chains. A guiding Framework” published. It is
intended to help policy-makers and field practitioners to integrate gender equality dimensions more
effectively and systematically in their interventions.
 Training package in gender-sensitive value chain development for institutions and service providers,
with focus on coaching skills has been developed and being delivered to target organizations and
institutions in the FMM countries.
Project log frame - Outcomes, outputs and activities conducted (2015&2016) and planned (2017)
Project Outcomes: Agrifood systems are more inclusive, efficient and address gender inequalities
Output 1. Women’s active involvement in value chains and access to and control of resources is strengthened
through technical support (access to equipment, facilities and small-scale infrastructures) - Component 1.
Strengthening the capacities and involvement of women in agrifood value chains.
2015
• Identification of support needed (capacity building, advisory services, etc.) to improve women’s role and benefits
in the following VCs: Fisheries: Côte d’Ivoire (Grand Lahou and Guessabo); Ghana (Dzemeni); and Tunisia (Ghabes
and Sfax regions). Roots and Tubers: Côte d’Ivoire (Abidjan, Adzopé, Bouaké and Yamassoukro). Cactus pear and
tomato: Ethiopia (Tigray). Mango and papaya: Kenya (West Pokot). Dairy: Ethiopia (Degem, Dejen and
ArbaminchZuria, in Oromia, Amhara, South Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples’ Regions); and Kenya (Bungoma,
Kiambu and Nandi).
2016
Undertake assessments and analysis of value chains to identify gender gaps and opportunities
• Finalization of eleven gender-sensitive value chain (GSVC) analysis: (i) dairy in Ethiopia, Kenya and Rwanda; (ii)
cassava in Côte d’Ivoire; (iii) Horticulture in Tigray (Ethiopia); (iv) Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, Tunisia
(fisheries), (v) Tropical fruits (Kenya), (vi) and small-scale cross-border trade with focus on fisheries and
horticulture in Rwanda.
Provide tailor-made technical support to enhance women’s economic empowerment
• Selection of associations/cooperatives to receive labor-saving and enhancing food safety and hygiene equipment
on the basis of needs assessment and value chain studies:
• Ethiopia: three women associations in Tigray with tomato sauce processing units.
• Rwanda: three cooperatives involved in cross-border trade received small equipment for fresh fish preservation
and tomato primary processing and three associations for milk collection and butter processing.
• Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Burkina Faso: all associations involved in fisheries for FAO-Thiaroye fish processing
technique (FTT) and facilities for fish smoking.
• Tunisia: associations engaged in clams’ collection received equipment for enhanced preservation and food safety
of clams.
Conduct capacity development activities to support gender sensitive and efficient value chains
Burkina Faso (Fisheries)
 launch event organized to present the project (representatives of 17 women associations and 19 fishermen).
Côte d’Ivoire (Fisheries)
 Members of four women associations trained in sustainable management of post-harvest technology platforms
(200 participants). Management plans validated during the training;
 200 women coached at two project sites (Guessabo & Grand-Lahou).
Ghana (Fisheries)
 A 7-day study tour organized on the FTT-Thiaroye platforms (Peers-to-peers learning) and at the Ivorian’s
Directorate of Fish utilization, extension and training. Two women processors, one community artisan and the
FMM focal point from the Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture Development participated in the study tour.

107

-----------------------Page 122 End-----------------------

Tunisia (Fisheries)
 Fifty-eight clams fishing women trained in art craft manufacturing at small scale;
 Twenty clams fishing women trained in fishing gears making and repair;
 One dialogue forum among clams’ fisheries partners (ACG/NGO representing the targeted 300 women
beneficiaries and URAP/private sector) organized.
Kenya (Dairy Value chains)
 163 farmers (63 women and 100 men) members of Lessos Dairy Farmers Cooperative Society (Nandi County) and
services providers informed and sensitized on gender in dairy value chain development.
 35 representatives of local, national and international stakeholders and local government authorities participated
in the validation workshop of FAO “Gender assessment of dairy VCs: evidence from Kenya”;
 31 women and 22 men among board members, staff and farmer members of Lessos Dairy Farmers Cooperative
(LDFC) informed and sensitized on gender in dairy value chain development (Nandi County, November 2016);
 35 board and staff members of LDFC, community facilitators, agro-entrepreneurs and extensionists (13W/22M),
trained on gender equality in dairy VC and trained as mobilizers and trainers (Nandi County, December 2016);
 One concept note developed together with LDFC for the operationalization of a new unit within the Cooperative
aimed at promoting women-led enterprises and family businesses among the Cooperative’s members.
 Participation of five women from LDFC and three FAO/FMM staff to the Gender and Resilience Sharefair 2016
(November 2016, Nairobi) to showcase the FMM project in Kenya, share experiences and peer-learn.
Rwanda (Dairy Value chains)
 38 key dairy value chain actors (21 women/17 men) including local farmers, transporters, entrepreneurs in the
three project target areas (Ntebe, Kitazigurwa and Nyagatovu in Kayonza-Rwamagana districts) informed and
sensitized on gender in dairy value chain development (October 216 and December 2017)
 10 key value chain actors/cooperatives’ leaders (6 women and 4 men) informed and involved on the FMM project
intervention during two dedicated sessions (October 2016).
Ivory Coast (roots and tubers)
 About 100 women from 20 women organizations trained in business planning with the support of ANADER
(Agence Nationale d’Appui au Développement Rural).
Ethiopia (small initiative)
 Members of women associations (48 W/1M) trained in good agricultural practices for tomato production (first of
three rounds, primarily focused on early production stages: seedling production, irrigation and fertilizing).
Kenya (small initiative)
 Women group (West Pokot), local government representatives, institutional actors and private sector trained to
support the transition of the group into a marketing cooperative for coffee, onions and dairy with two experts from
the Self-Employment Women Association from India (South-South Cooperation MoU).
 28 members of women associations (Ortum and Lomut, West Pokot) involved in the production and marketing of
tropical fruits participated in a GAIN (Governance, Autonomy, Integration, Needs-based) workshop.
2017
 Finalization of the delivery of value addition equipment started in 2016.
 Documentation of good practices from projects to be included in the hand-book for mainstreaming gender in VC
development (see Output 3).
 Complete the training in business management and post-harvest and processing good practices for beneficiary
women associations and cooperatives in: Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Kenya, Rwanda and Tunisia.
 In partnership with ACTIA (French network of food technology institutes), deliver three trainings for practitioners
involved in VC development about food processing and to food hygiene in Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, and Ghana.
Output 2. Institutions and producer organizations are strengthened to increase women’s active participation in
agrifood systems - Component 2. Institutional strengthening and policy advocacy for promoting gender-sensitive
agrifood value chains)
2015

108

-----------------------Page 123 End-----------------------

• Capacity Development Road Map (2016-2017) for women associations and cooperatives, SMEs and public
institutions (extension services) responsible for support and advisory services in agribusiness and for policy-makers
finalized for six target countries.
2016
Undertake stakeholder analysis and needs assessment in selected agri-food value chains
 On the basis of the VC studies conducted, public institutions and producer organizations’ needs assessment
conducted to design interventions at the policy and institutional level aimed at increase women’s active
participation in the project’s agri-food value chains.
Develop and deliver tailor- made capacity development activities to the identified institutional stakeholders
 For all VCs, ToTs programme on gender-sensitive value chain development and coaching for national institutions,
service providers, cooperatives’ board members, and FAO technical staff finalized. ToTs planned for 2017.
Côte d’Ivoire (fisheries)
 Forty extension officers from the Ministry of Fisheries trained on GSVC analysis and data processing.
Burkina Faso (fisheries)
 Thirty professionals from the fisheries ministry trained in the gender sensitive approach in fisheries;
Kenya (Dairy Value chains)
 18 Officers from the Ministry of Agriculture, members of the Task Force on the review of the National Livestock
Policy (6 women/10 men) trained on “Mainstreaming gender in policy formulation” (Nakuru, December 2016).
Rwanda (Dairy Value chains)
 Two workshops on ‘Information on the project and sensitization on inclusive value chain” for local leaders and key
dairy value chain actors (cooperatives staff and board members, farmers, transporters, entrepreneurs) for two
cooperatives in the three target areas (Gicumbi district, Nov-Dec 2016, Nyagatare District in Oct-Nov 2016.
Organize awareness raising events and stakeholder policy dialogues for more inclusive and efficient value chains
Burkina Faso (fisheries)
 Policy framework and regulations for small-scale fisheries reviewed and analysed with public institutions (launch
event). Recommendations provided on the major areas to be addressed.
Côte d’Ivoire (Roots and tubers)
 Policy dialogue event “Journées Panafricaines du Manioc” organized to establish an inter-branch organization for
all stakeholders involved in the cassava value chain. 30 women from seven cooperatives participated.
 Consultations launched with the Swiss Centre of Scientific Researches (CSRS) and Slow Food: to 1) better
characterize Attieke from Grand Lahou and Dabouth as they are high quality and very specific place-based products
that could benefit from a Geographical Indication recognition; and 2) organize capacity building sessions for the
women involved in the cooperatives and for the institutional partners.
Kenya (small initiative - tropical fruits)
 A policy multi-stakeholder platform involving the agribusiness directorate, private sector actors and women
associations involved in tropical fruits production and marketing established to foster advocacy to main
institutions on major constraints encountered by women value chain actors to access markets.


A policy platform was established with the Pokot County Government officials from the Ministry of Agriculture

and Agribusiness to analyse the challenges faced by the new local government both financially and institutionally
(in terms of human resources and capacity) and market infrastructure constraints.
Ethiopia (small initiative -horticulture)
 Multi-stakeholder policy platform and task force involving Women Affairs’ Office, Bureau of Agriculture and Rural
Development and FAO established to identify policy constraints and actions to facilitate women’s access to the
higher added value segments of the horticulture value chain.
Rwanda (small initiative - small-scale cross-border trade)
 Platform created with UN Women, Catholic Relief Service and the Ministry of Commerce to coordinate activities
and formulate interventions to enhance impacts that benefit small informal women traders.
Tunisia (fisheries)

109

-----------------------Page 124 End-----------------------

 A national stakeholders’ workshop organized to share the findings of the VC analysis and develop a national
strategy for the economic empowerment of women (63 participants including 20 fishers, representatives from the
ministries for fisheries, women’s affairs, agriculture, research/academia, an intergovernmental organization, an
NGO, FAO and 5 representatives from Senegal and Cape Verde to learn from Côte d’Ivoire’s experience in the
process from situational analysis through the strategy development to unleash women.91
 A policy dialogue between FAO and Ministry of Fisheries and Aquaculture on fair marketing practices in the clams’
fisheries successfully led to a change in the yearly Arrêté Ministériel on the conditions for fishing and placing on
market of clams.
 Establishment of an equitable and fair-trade linkage between ACG-led women groups and a private/clam importer
(from Italy), involving also local public institutions (FAO facilitation).
2017
 Delivery of ToTs trainings in Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Ghana, Rwanda and Tunisia (March).
 Desk study on practical approaches and frameworks to effectively delivering subsidies to private sector entities for
development purposes (with focus on women value chain actors) under preparation.
 Two regional trainings on mainstreaming gender in VC development for policy makers, FAO Staff and development
practitioners,
 In Ivory Coast, two trainings for women from the cooperatives from Grand Lahou and Dabou, to sensitize them to
the concept of Geographical Indication.
 A two-day seminar on Geographical Indications in Ivory Coast with ministries of agriculture and intellectual
property, researchers, extensionists and attieke value chain representatives.
 Five national training on GSVC development to service providers, manager board members of cooperatives and
associations, national institutions and FAO technical staff (Ghana, Burkina Faso, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Rwanda)
 One high-level policy dialogue event with the African Union Commission on the policy instruments and incentives
to enhance and upgrade women’s role and benefits along value chains.
 three events on knowledge exchange with public institutions in Ghana, Côte d’Ivoire and Ethiopia on food safety
and quality standard setting and certification policies
 A session on Sustainable food systems at the XV European Association of Agricultural Economists’ Congress
“Towards Sustainable Agri-Food Systems: Balancing between Markets and Society” (August 2017, Parma, Italy).
Output 3. Gender equality issues are systematically integrated in technical approaches to business development
services and policies (Component 3: Build knowledge products, policy and advocacy tools)
2015
• a conceptual framework and a strategy for FAO’s work on gender in value chain interventions and women’s
empowerment developed to define FAO’s vision and interventions on VC through a gender responsive approach.
2016
Provide support mechanisms and tools for business development services to address women’s specific needs
• A flyer developed on FAO policy and facilitation work to support women of the cassava VCs in Ivory Coast.
Develop knowledge products and advocacy materials on gender-sensitive value chains
• Hand-book “Developing gender-sensitive value chains. A guiding Framework” published.
• An updated brochure finalized and printed for distribution (hard copy available).
• Paper “Cross-border trade and women in value chain development” presented at: “Agri-Chains and Sustainable
Development: linking local and global dynamics” CIRAD international conference (Montpellier, December 2016).
• Article “Crossing borders - Challenges of African women involved in informal cross-border trade” posted on the blog
www.agrigenderjournal.com
• Video on experience exchange on FTT technology, available at: Trip for exchange experience of Ghanaians fish
operators in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire

The workshop was co-funded with the “Food loss reduction strategy development in favor of smallholder producers in Africa”
(GCP/RAF/488/NOR). Cape Verde and Senegal were sponsored by the GEF-funded West Africa Coastal Fisheries Initiative.
91

110

-----------------------Page 125 End-----------------------

Develop a package of capacity development materials for different service providers
All training material, presentations, videos, booklets used for the trainings will be available on FMM web-site.
2017
• Finalization of the Strategy “Developing gender-sensitive value chains. Guidance for practitioners”;
• National simplified illustrated versions of the Voluntary guidelines for securing small-scale fisheries in
Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana and Tunisia to facilitate the implementation;
• policy paper prepared on tools, incentives and mechanisms to enhance gender-sensitive value chain development
and small/medium-scale women entrepreneurship in the agribusiness sector.
• Capacity Development Road Map for GSVC development (already finalized) published.
• a package of capacity development materials targeting field-level stakeholders, service providers (extension
services, farmers organizations, etc.) and public institutions on sustainable VC development (prepared with the
support from ILO/ITC and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research).
• A module on GSVC development to be included in an e-learning package on Sustainable Food Systems
development under preparation by the Sustainable Food Value Chain Network Group in FAO.
• Website online by February 2017

Lessons learned

The main challenge faced refer to the complexity of the multi-disciplinary and multi-level approach of the
project.
The close involvement of decentralized offices ensures that the work done is aligned to the development
strategies of the beneficiary countries’ and to the FAO Programme of Work, and at the same time requires
efforts, time and human resources for consultation processes (correspondence, virtual meetings and field
missions). The multiplicity of partners involved is also another challenge in terms of coordinating efforts,
avoid overlapping and duplications and ensure an efficient use of resources.
The complexity also refers to the linkages and cross-fertilization between field, policy and normative work,
although this is an area where FAO shows substantive comparative advantages and has acquired longstanding experience in the value chain development work conducted in the past 15 years.
Another challenge is related to the integration of gender-related issues into value chain development
through concrete initiatives that go beyond the mere support to women in agribusiness. In some contexts,
cultural and social norms might be challenging and therefore more time and efforts are required to ensure
that women as well as men are involved in the initiatives supported by the FMM.
Until now, the FMM work to improve women’s participation in agricultural value chains has started from
the traditional roles women play in selected value chains as entry points to upgrade their role. While a
reasonable initial strategy, this approach may be self-limiting over the longer term: successfully moving
women into nodes of the value chain where they have been historically under-represented requires
dedicated resources and concurrence of several stakeholders to support behavioral change. This is the
reason why the FMM will focus the remaining project’s life span to develop approaches and models that
allow to expand gender-equitable economic opportunities in field and policy interventions to enhance
business development services; processing, packaging, transport, marketing and financing.
Additional efforts are being deployed to:
 Support gender-sensitive value chain development incorporating nutritional and health benefits;

111

-----------------------Page 126 End-----------------------




Improve sex-disaggregated baseline data collection to better assess gender-related value chain impacts
on women’s income and food security;
Integrate on and off-farm analysis to expand job and income generation opportunities for women along
selected value chains (e.g. taking into consideration off-farm activities like input supply, transportation
services, marketing, etc.).

112

-----------------------Page 127 End-----------------------

Accelerated agribusiness and agro-industry investment technical assistance initiative –
FMM/GLO/102/MUL
Summary and Project Objectives: In the context of growth in private investment flows to the agribusiness
and agro-industries, the project aims to stimulate investments and enhance the development impact of
such investments and contribute to inclusiveness and poverty reduction.
In Africa, the project aims at creating a Public Technical Assistance Facility (TAF) under the African
Agribusiness and Agri-industries Development Initiative (3ADI) in collaboration with UNIDO and the AfDB.
The Facility will provide specific and targeted forms of Technical Assistance (TA) to promote and facilitate
public and private investments with a view to ensure that local stakeholders benefit from them and that
investments are inclusive. The project initially focuses on the set up of the Facility for the East African
Community (EAC), as a pilot for a wider facility for the entire continent.
The project also focuses on capacity building and TA services to: (i) the public sector to design and
implement public investment programmes aiming at enhancing infrastructures and enabling environment
for agribusiness and agro-Industries; (ii) synergies and coordination between public investment and private
finance; and (iii) smallholders, SMEs and local finance providers to improve management, technology and
marketing along the value chain.
Project start dates: August 2013. Project activities ended in August 2016.
Contributes to: SO4, Output 4.3.1.
Main 2016 Results:
• in the Cook Islands, new investments are stimulated and seven new agribusiness established through
a matching grants facility, which supports the establishment of new agribusinesses;
• the capacity of 22 risk-management, credit and IT staff of financial institutions from 15 national and
regional financial institutions (including MFIs and national and international commercial banks) was
strengthened to perform risk-management and credit appraisal processes for investments in
agriculture and agribusinesses;
• Knowledge and understanding of contexts for investments in agribusiness is developed through the
preparation of three studies: study on financial services provided by Microfinance Institutions (MFIs)
to producers’ organizations, paper on the innovations for inclusive agricultural finance and risk
mitigation mechanisms in Morocco, and a study on the feasibility of the provision of crop-insurance in
Fiji.
• Technical assistance provided to the Agricultural Commodity Exchange for Africa (ACE) to increase
participation of the SMEs and smallholder farmers to the warehouse receipt system in Malawi.
Development of a training package with ACE on financial literacy for smallholder farmers. It aims at
connecting farmer groups to ACE’s warehouse receipt system and its overall financial services.

113

-----------------------Page 128 End-----------------------

Project log frame - Outcomes, outputs and activities conducted (2015 & 2016)
Project Outcomes
1. Governments are able to effectively plan, design and implement agribusiness development programmes in
coordination with private sector investment interests.

2. The inclusiveness of agro value chains is enhanced through linkages between agribusiness investors, Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs) and smallholders.
Output 1. Provide TA services to governments to support the design and implementation of public investment
programmes aiming to enhance infrastructures and enabling environment for agribusiness and agro-Industries
2015
• Training materials on agribusiness investment promotion which was used in 2014 are upgraded. The training has
been and will continued to be used in other projects for policy-makers and private investors.
Output 2. Explore synergies and promote coordination between public investment and private finance
2015
• Finalized the technical assistance facility document with the East African Community (EAC), UNIDO and AfDB. The
programme was approved by the EAC Partner States. Agreed with UNIDO and ABD to support the EAC technical
assistance facility as a pilot of the 3ADI and TAF;
• organized four Private Sector partnership dialogue: Inclusive finance and investment models in agriculture.
2016
• Continued resource mobilization for the establishment of the technical assistance facility.
Output 3. Promote linkages within agro value chains through provision of TA services and capacity development to
SMEs, smallholder farmers and local finance providers
2015
• Wholesale redesign, reprogramming and upgrade undertaken of an excel-based agriculture loan analysis tool and
accompanying 3-5 day, modular training course developed called “Agricultural Loan Analysis featuring the Ag. Loan
Analyser Tool”. The course targets loan officers, credit managers, credit committee members and IT and riskmanagement staff of financial institutions and provides an overview of commonly accepted good practices in
agricultural loan appraisal, a robust and integrated quantitative and qualitative analytical framework and
methodology to appraise agricultural production loan applications from agricultural producers, producer
organizations and agribusiness enterprises. The training has been delivered numerous times at the request of FAO
Representations, field projects and other external partners on an ad-hoc basis and continues to display a high
demand.
• in the Cook Islands, 11 agribusinesses (tropical orchards, processing centres, organic farms, greenhouses) were
established through a small matching grants facility funded by the FMM and 24 agribusinesses were strengthened
through mentoring and training. New investments into agriculture were made to match the grants; three youth
groups were trained on business and were awarded by the bank of Cook Islands with further grants. The Bank of
Cook Islands is considering the development of a new agricultural portfolio, due to the strong impact of such
intervention;
• through a partnership with the Samoa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, organized various workshops and
trainings on agricultural finance market assessment (35 participants from the government, banks and
agribusinesses), contract farming (28 participants from government, agribusinesses and farmer groups), CODEX
and GAP/HACCP92 (22 participants from agribusinesses, farmer groups and government) for Samoan agribusiness
companies and other stakeholders;

92

Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP)

114

-----------------------Page 129 End-----------------------

•

Through a partnership with the African Rural and Agricultural Credit Association (AFRACA), organized value chain
finance (25 experts from West African financial institutions) and agriculture loan analysis trainings (64 experts from
East and West African financial institutions). Facilitated knowledge exchanges with other African countries and
South Asia on agriculture finance and investment.
2016
 In the Cook Islands, 7 new agribusinesses (4 nurseries and 3 orchards) established thanks to the Small Matching
Grants facility, supported by the FMM which made available financing for agribusinesses through grants a and
loans from financial institutions;
 Three-day training workshop on agricultural loan appraisal delivered in collaboration with the Central Bank of
Uganda and AFRACA to 22 risk-management, credit and IT staff from 15 national and regional financial
institutions that included both MFIs and national and international commercial banking institutions (Kampala,
Uganda). Participants were introduced to quantitative and qualitative principles, approaches and tools to
effectively appraise agricultural production loans and did hands on work through a series of case studies using
the Ag. Loan Analyzer tool – an FAO-developed, excel-based application that facilitates the risk-management and
credit appraisal processes of financial institutions. As a result, a number of financial institutions – notably KCB
Kenya and KCB Uganda - expressed initial and subsequently formal interest in a collaboration that would involve
an institution-wide capacity building initiative that supports KCB’s recent strategic focus on growing their
agribusiness SME lending portfolio. Discussions in this regard are ongoing.
 Technical assistance provided to the Agricultural Commodity Exchange for Africa (ACE) for the implementation of
the warehouse receipt system in Malawi to increase participation of the SMEs and smallholder farmers.
 Training package on financial literacy for smallholders farmers developed in Malawi in collaboration with ACE.
The training package aims at connecting farmer groups to ACE’s warehouse receipt system and its overall
financial services, by raising their financial education on the benefits and implications of warehouse receipt
systems. It is disseminated to farmers through ACE agent network.
Output 4. Research and knowledge on agribusiness investmentsis increased for informing and developing privatepublic partnerships for agribusiness development
2016
 study prepared on “Linking Micro Finance Institutions and Marketing Cooperatives: A Review of Successful Linkages
between MPCs & MFIs in Oromia Regional State, Ethiopia”, together with ICCO Terrafina MFI. The study conducts
a review of successful case-studies that allow to understand the strengths and bottlenecks in financing MultiPurpose Cooperatives (MPCs) in Ethiopia.
 paper prepared on the innovations for inclusive agricultural finance and risk mitigation mechanisms in Morocco,
focusing on the case of the Tamwil El Fellah (TEF) finance corporation. TEF is a subsidiary of the Agricultural
Credit Group of Morocco (the national agricultural bank), which focuses on lending to rural smallholders that lack
traditional forms of guarantee required by conventional financial institutions. The paper is available in English
and French.
 feasibility study for the provision of crop-insurance in Fiji conducted.

Challenges and lessons-learned: The last months of the project focused on completing ongoing activities, rather
than starting new ones (even if they were planned) and increase the delivery of the project in the best way with
the remaining funds available.
Project follow up: In Ethiopia, with the support of Rabobank Foundation, FAO plans to carry out an extensive
mapping exercise of producers’ organizations in various Ethiopian regions, in collaboration with ICCO-Terrafina
Microfinance. In parallel, a joint FAO and ICCO-Terrafina project will be developed for a broader intervention in
support of Ethiopian MFIs and MPCs (multi-purpose cooperatives) to build on the results of the mapping, with
the goal of developing new sustainable financial products and services for cooperatives in the mentioned areas.

115

-----------------------Page 130 End-----------------------

List of available projects related publications, reports and material produced in 2016
Support to CSOs and grassroots organizations to participate in VGGT processes
 FAO. 2016. A good practice on multi-actor dialogue - The Voluntary Guidelines at the heart of Senegal’s
tenure reform. Rome. 8 pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6271e.pdf)
 FAO.2016. A good practice on the implementation of the Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance
of Tenure - A multi-actor and multi-sector approach in Sierra Leone. Rome. 6 pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6270e.pdf)
Voices of the Hungry
 FAO, IFAD & WFP. 2016.Monitoring food security and nutrition in support of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development: Taking stock and looking ahead. Information Note. FAO, Rome. 20pp. (also
available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6188e.pdf)
 FAO.2016. Asia and the Pacific. Regional Overview of Food Insecurity. Rome. pp 64. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6481e.pdf)
 FAO, OMS & OPS. 2016. America Latina y el Caribe. Panorama della Seguridad Alimentaria e Nutricional.
FAO, Rome. 174 pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6747s.pdf)
 UN.2017. The Sustainable Development Goals Report 2016. New York. (also available at
https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/report/2016/)
Sustainable food and agriculture
 Neely, C., Bourne, M., Chesterman, S., Koupelavtskaya- Buttoud,I., Zapata-Andia, J., Bojic, D., Vallee, D.,
Zapata-Andia,J.. Implementing Agenda 2030 in Food and Agriculture: Accelerating Impact through CrossSectoral Coordination at the Country Level. ICRAF &FAO. Available upon request.
Integrating agriculture in National Adaptation Plans
Project contributions to Publications, submissions, etc.
 FAO.2016. Climate change and food security: risks and responses. Rome. 110pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5188e.pdf)
 FAO. 2016. The State of Food and Agriculture: Climate change, agriculture and food security. Rome. 194 pp.
(also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6030e.pdf)
UNFCCC Submissions in 2016:
 FAO. 2016. Submissions to the UNFCCC in support of the launch of a Technical Examination Process on
Adaptation in the period 2016 – 2020 (A-TEP). Rome. (also available at
http://unfccc.int/files/documentation/submissions_from_non-party_stakeholders/application/pdf/572.pdf
 FAO. 2016. Submission C: Submission to the UNFCCC on Issues relating to agriculture: adaptation measures.
Rome. 29 pp. (also available at http://unfccc.int/files/documentation/submissions_from_nonparty_stakeholders/application/pdf/595.2.pdf)
An integrated approach to sustainable intensification of agriculture through an efficient use of resources –
Burundi Component
FAO. 2016. SO2: Integration, efficiency, sustainability – keys to the future of agriculture. The Burundi case. Rome.
6pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/publications/card/en/c/4af02231-4745-4ac4-a69e-58ad953dd505/)
Scaling up CSA
 Alfani,F., Arslan, A., Cavatassi, R., Kokwe,M., McCarthy, N., Lipper, L. 2016. Diversification under climate
variability as part of a CSA strategy in rural Zambia. ESA Working Paper No. 16-07. Rome, FAO. 40pp.
(also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6277e.pdf)

116

-----------------------Page 131 End-----------------------

 Asfaw,S., Lipper, L.. 2016. Managing climate risk using climate-smart agriculture. Rome. FAO. 22pp. (also
available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5402e.pdf)
 Asfaw, S., Maggio, G. 2016. Gender integration into Climate-Smart Agriculture: Tools for data collection
and analysis for policy and research. Rome. FAO. (also available http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5299e.pdf)
Blue Growth Initiative
 FAO & UNEP. 2016. Valuing coastal ecosystem as economic assets: the importance of mangroves for Food
Security and livelihoods amongst communities in Kilifi country and the Tana Delta. Rome, FAO. 10pp. (also
available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5689e.pdf)
Forest and land restoration
• FAO. 2017. The Forest and Landscape Restoration Mechanism [online]. Rome.
http://www.fao.org/forestry/flrm/89477/en/;
• FAO. 2015. Unasylva. N 245. Rome. 116 pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5212e.pdf)
• FAO. 2015. Sustainable financing for Forest and Landscape Restoration. The role of public policy makers.
Rome. 20pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5032e.pdf)
• FAO. 2016. Report of the first FLRM Advisory Group. Rome. 15 pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/forestry/43236-080d5972272eda5b019c99597c8a3ede2.pdf)
• FAO. 2015. Report of Workshop on Private Sector Investment in FLR. Rome. 28pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/forestry/43243-0e9d622a9f0e5f0c79969f85a6d7c4289.pdf)
Job creation in the small ruminant sector
 Mueller B., Acero F., Estruch E.. 2017. Creating employment potential in small-ruminant value chains
in the Ethiopian Highlands. FAO Animal Production and Health Working Paper No. 16, Rome, FAO. 82
pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6906e.pdf)
DIMITRA - Information, participatory communication and social mobilization for rural women, men and youth

FAO. 2016. Dimitra Newsletter. Rome. 24 pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5531e.pdf)
Integrated Country Approach for Decent Rural Employment
 FAO, 2016. Incorporating decent rural employment in the strategic planning for agricultural development.
Rome. 115 pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5471e.pdf )
 FAO. 2017. Policy database on Employment and Decent Work [online]. Rome. http://www.fao.org/ruralemployment/policies/en/
 FAO. 2016. FAO’s Integrated Country Approach (ICA) for promoting decent rural employment. Rome 2
pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6177e.pdf)
 FAO& ANPEJ. 2016. Video FORED 2016 [VIDEO]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V4752KIA5s&feature=youtu.be
 ANPEJ. 2016. Business Competition for youth innovators in agribusiness in the framework of a regional
Road Show. [VIDEO]. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7qGwv5ZF7hI&feature=youtu.be
Accelerated agribusiness and agro-industry investment technical assistance initiative
 Hernandez, E., Ramirez, J. 2016. Innovations for inclusive agricultural finance and risk mitigation
mechanisms, The case of Tamwil El Fellah in Morocco. ADA and FAO. Rome. 33 pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6166e.pdf)

117

-----------------------Page 132 End-----------------------

Enable women to benefit more equally from agrifood value chains
 FAO. 2017. Gender Assessment of Dairy Value Chains. Evidence from Ethiopia. Rome. 80 pp. (also available
at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6695e.pdf)
 FAO. 2017. Gender Assessment of Dairy Value Chains. Evidence from Kenya. Rome. 80 pp. (also available at
http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6786e.pdf)
 FAO. 2017. Gender Assessment of Dairy Value Chain. Evidence from Rwanda. Rome. 76 pp. (also available
at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i6845e.pdf)
 FAO. 2016. Enabling women to benefit more equally from agrifood value chains. Rome. 2 pp. (also available
at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5417b.pdf)
 FAO. 2016. Valoriser le rôle des femmes dans les chaines de valeur agroalimentaires. Rome.2 pp (also
available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-i5417b.pdf)
 FAO. 2017. Crossing borders - Challenges of African women involved in informal cross-border trade. Rome.
(posted at www.agrigenderjournal.com)
Save Food

FAO. 2016. Food loss analysis: causes and solutions. Case studies in the Small-scale Agriculture and
Fisheries Subsectors Methodology. Rome. 78pp. (also available at http://www.fao.org/3/a-az568e.pdf.)



FAO. 2016. Monthly newsletters (also available at http://www.fao.org/save-food/news-andmultimedia/newsletter/)

118

-----------------------Page 133 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 134 End-----------------------

FAO Multipartner Programme Support Mechanism

2016 Annual Report

The 2016 Annual Report presents results achieved by projects supported by the FAO Multipartner
Programme Support Mechanism (FMM) in 2016. The FMM is an innovative funding mechanism for partners
willing to contribute to FAO’s work through unearmarked or lightly earmarked funds. The FMM directly
supports FAO’s Strategic Framework (2010-2019) and the realization of the organization’s Programme of
Work and budget, and focus on results. In 2016, the FMM supported 17 projects implemented in 42
countries. They delivered substantial results geared towards the achievements of the SDGs and FAO’s
Strategic Objectives. In addition, beyond their technical impact and tangible results in countries, FMM
projects delivered other important results. In 2016, FMM projects leveraged a substantial additional
funding for scale-up or complementary projects. New strategic partnerships were established, and projects
stimulated cross-sectoral work, fostering synergies and new thinking, both within and outside FAO.

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Viale delle Terme di Caracalla, 00153
Rome, Italy www.fao.org

-----------------------Page 135 End-----------------------

