

OCHA

UNITED NATIONS OFFICE
FOR THE COORDINATION OF
HUMANITARIAN AFFAIRS

ANNUAL REPORT 2018

1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

OCHA THANKS ITS DONORS FOR THEIR GENEROUS
SUPPORT TO ITS ACTIVITIES IN 2018

AUSTRALIA

AUSTRIA

BELGIUM

BULGARIA

CANADA

CHINA

DENMARK

ESTONIA

EUROPEAN COMISSION

FINLAND

FRANCE

GERMANY

ICELAND

IRELAND

ITALY

JAPAN

KAZAKHSTAN

REPUBLIC OF KOREA

KUWAIT

LATVIA

LUXEMBOURG

MALTA

MONACO

NEW ZEALAND

NORWAY

POLAND

QATAR

ROMANIA

SAUDI ARABIA

SLOVAKIA

SPAIN

UNITED ARAB EMIRATES

UNITED KINGDOM

UNITED STATES

SWEDEN

SWITZERLAND

NETHERLANDS

RUSSIAN FEDERATION

TURKEY

Credits
This document is produced by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA). OCHA wishes to
acknowledge the contributions of its committed staff at headquarters and in the field in preparing this document.
Front and Back Cover
Auwal Abubakar, an OCHA staff member, with internally displaced persons at a camp in the town of Bama in Borno State,
Nigeria. Credit: OCHA/Yasmina Guerda.
Editing and Graphic Design
OCHA New York
For additional information, please contact:
Donor Relations Section
ocha.donor.relations@un.org
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
Palais des Nations, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland
Tel: +41 22 917 1690
The designations employed and the presentation of material in this publication do not imply the expression of any opinion
whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or
area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.

3

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

Ukraine

OCHA GENEVA
Switzerland
OCHA NEW YORK
USA

Guatemala

Haiti

Lebanon Turkey (Syria Crisis)
(Syria Crisis) Syrian AR5 IR Iran6
oPt4
Iraq
Afghanistan
RHC Syria Crisis7
MIDDLE EAST AND
Jordan
NORTH AFRICA
(Syria Crisis)
Cairo, Egypt

Venezuela

LATIN AMERICA AND THE
CARIBBEAN
Panamá, Panama

Colombia

Niger

Burkina
Faso

WEST AND CENTRAL
AFRICA
Dakar, Senegal

Ecuador

Peru
Bolivia

4

Mali

Sudan

Chad

Eritrea

Nigeria CAR1
Cameroon

Yemen

DPR of
Korea3

Kyrgyzstan
Tajikistan

Libya

Mexico
Honduras

Kazakhstan

Georgia

Japan

Pakistan

United Arab
Emirates

Myanmar

ASIA AND THE
PACIFIC
Bangkok,
Thailand
Philippines

Ethiopia
South Sudan
Somalia

DRC

2

SOUTHERN AND
Burundi EASTERN AFRICA
Nairobi, Kenya

Madagascar

Indonesia

Ofﬁce of the
Paciﬁc Islands

5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

OCHA

2018
YEAR
IN REVIEW

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT
330

MAPS

1,289

40

EVENTS,
PLEDGING CONFERENCES,
BRIEFINGS

30

3

SECURITY
COUNCIL
BRIEFINGS

LECTURES:

NEGOTIATED

96

ACCESS
IN SYRIA
AND MALI

• HUMANITARIAN FINANCING
• WARS HAVE LAWS
• CONFLICT & HUNGER

MISSIONS
SPECIAL ADVOCACY
EFFORTS ON

LAKE CHAD
REGION

INFOGRAPHICS

1,677

NEW WEB PORTAL

HUMANITARIAN
INSIGHT

REPORTS

WITH INFORMATION ON
PEOPLE’S NEEDS,
RESPONSE AND FUNDING

HUMANITARIAN
ICONS

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING
YEMEN

$200M+

FAMINE IN YEMEN

52

RECORD INCOME
LEVELS
CBPFs $950M
CERF $558.6M

HUMANITARIAN
FUND

PREVENTED

NEW COLLECTION
OF 300+

DONOR
CONTRIBUTIONS

COUNTRIES
REACHED
THROUGH
POOLED FUNDS

CBPFs
CERF

25TH

ANNIVERSARY OF

UNITED NATIONS
DISASTER ASSESSMENT
AND COORDINATION ― UNDAC

11,000+

HUMANITARIAN OPERATIONS
PROCESSED THROUGH
THE SYSTEM

HUMANITARIAN
DECONFLICTION
IN YEMEN

SURGE TEAMS
DEPLOYED TO

INDONESIAN
TSUNAMI
AND OTHER
CRISES

POLICY
UN ECONOMIC
AND SOCIAL
COUNCIL’S
HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS
SEGMENT
PRIORITY ISSUES
PREVENTION OF SEXUAL
ABUSE AND HARASSMENT

DISABILITIES IN
HUMANITARIAN ACTION

INNOVATIONS IN
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING
STRENGTHENING GENDER
EQUALITY PROGRAMMING

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

“We came here six months
ago by boat, because
military people were
burning our houses and

Contents
	14	 MAKING LIVES BETTER

killing people. Many

	15	

FIELD OFFICES

people died there. We lost

	51	

DIGITAL PLATFORMS

	52	

OCHA’S ROLE IN THE INTER-AGENCY STANDING COMMITTEE

	55	

HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

everything – our land,
our houses and animals.
We now only survive
thanks to the food aid.
Our hope is to get justice

	60	 STRENGTHENING OCHA
	66	FUNDING

one day.”
Rabiya, 40, Kutupalong refugee

	73	ANNEXES

camp; Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh.

	74	ACRONYMS

Credit OCHA/Vincent Tremeau

	75	

FINANCIAL TABLES

	86	

DONOR PROFILES

BOXES

8

	12	

OCHA’S 2018-2021 STRATEGIC PLAN

	18	

GREATER ACCOUNTABILITY IN THE RESPONSE TO RECURRENT DISASTERS

	25	

20TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON INTERNAL DISPLACEMENT

3	 0	

MOBILIZING STAFF DURING AN EMERGENCY

3	 4	

A “LIVING PETITION” FOR WORLD HUMANITARIAN DAY

	40	

DECONFLICTION MECHANISM HELPS AID DELIVERY TO MILLIONS IN YEMEN

5	 2	

ENSURING THAT AID IS GENDER-BALANCED

5	 3	

PROTECTION FROM SEXUAL EXPLOITATION AND ABUSE

5	 3	

PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

5	 5	

WAYS TO IMPROVE HUMANITARIAN FINANCING

6	 2	

AN EVALUATION OF DUTY OF CARE

6	 2	

UN ENTITIES TO COLLABORATE ON CASH ASSISTANCE

6	 4	

INFORM: FOCUS ON SUBNATIONAL RISK MODELS

6	 4	

THE IMPACT OF DATA

6	 5	

300+ HUMANITARIAN ICONS LAUNCHED

6	 9	

OCHA DONOR SUPPORT GROUP

	71	

FLEXIBLE INCOME IN 2018

72	

OCHA EVALUATION OF COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS

8	 1	

SPECIALLY DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS

9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

Foreword
thousands of women to safely give births The OCHA-managed UN Disaster Assessafter hospitals were destroyed or damaged. ment and Coordination (UNDAC) turned
25 last year. With deployments to five criIn 2018, we continued to use our financing ses in 2018, UNDAC teams have responded
tools to make the humanitarian system to a total of 287 emergencies in 110 counmore coherent, faster and more support- tries since 1993.
ive of local actors. Our donors certainly
recognized their value. 2018 was a record All this work could only be accomplished
year for the pooled funds. Donor support through the important collaboration of our
to the Central Emergency Response Fund partners and supporters around the world. I
(CERF) and the Country-Based Pooled thank you for your commitment to humanFunds amounted to $558.6 million and $950 itarian action, and to OCHA.
million, respectively.

Emergency Relief
Coordinator (ERC)
Mark Lowcock talks
with children in Al
Rabat Collective
Centre for displaced
people in Lahj
Governorate, Yemen.
The ERC visited
Yemen in November
2018.
Credit: OCHA/
Ammar Al-Hajj

From Afghanistan to Yemen, OCHA
brings the world together to help crisisaffected people get the humanitarian
assistance and protection they need.
OCHA plays a critical role in ensuring
that the humanitarian system is better
resourced, focused on the most acute
needs and more responsive to the needs
of affected people. This Annual Report
outlines what we have achieved in 2018
and highlights the importance of a wellcoordinated humanitarian system.

In 2018, humanitarian needs reached an
unprecedented scale. Fortunately, donors
generously responded by financing the humanitarian system at record levels. Over 133
million people needed humanitarian assistance in 41 countries. To meet their needs, we
asked for US $25 billion. Donors generously
provided over $15 billion to the UN-coordinated appeals. This is a clear sign of the
compassion and humanity of our donors
and their citizens. But it also demonstrates

10

the trust in the global humanitarian system, which undoubtedly saves millions of
lives every year.

OCHA consistently spoke up for the protection of women, men and children, including
in the Security Council. In the year that we
marked the 25th anniversary of the General
Assembly resolution on the protection of civilians, we worked closely with our partners
on a landmark Security Council resolution
condemning the starvation of civilians
and the denial of humanitarian access as
weapons of war. To mark the 20th anniversary of the Guiding Principles on Internal
Displacement, OCHA launched the #InvisibleCitizens campaign to highlight the needs
of people who have fled their homes without
becoming refugees.

In Yemen, the world’s worst humanitarian
crisis, OCHA mobilized resources and advocated for access to people in need all over
the country. We worked with our partners
to try to stabilize the economy and pushed
for the payment of the salaries of teachers
and health workers. On average, aid groups
reached over 8 million people every month,
helping to roll back the world’s largest cholera epidemic and move 45 districts out of
“pre-famine” status.

In 2018, we took decisive steps to tackle the
scourge of sexual exploitation and abuse
and harassment in the humanitarian system. OCHA played a key role in facilitating
agreement in the Inter-agency Standing
Committee to strengthen our system-wide
investigative capacities; bolster our information-sharing to ensure perpetrators
could not move freely from one organization
to another; and ensure that victims received
the support and protection they need.

In South Sudan, despite the insecurity and
other challenges faced by aid agencies, OCHA
helped humanitarian actors reach 5.3 million
people with assistance, partly through our
success in negotiating better access with the
warring parties.

We also took important decisions to
strengthen our organization with the aim of
making us more agile, accountable, effective,
decentralized, transparent and collaborative.
We shifted more of our resources to our field
offices. And our headquarters became more
streamlined and focused on providing advice
and support to the field. We also reorganized
our surge mechanisms for swifter responses
to rapid onset disasters.

In Indonesia, OCHA supported the national
response to several earthquakes, including
in Central Sulawesi. CERF funds supported

Mark Lowcock

11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

﻿

﻿

OCHA VISION AND MISSION

VISION

MISSION

A world that comes together to help
crisis-affected people rapidly get
the humanitarian assistance and
protection they need.

OCHA coordinates the global
emergency response to save lives and
protect people in humanitarian crises.
We advocate for effective and
principled humanitarian action
by all, for all.

OCHA STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

1

OCHA’s 2018-2021 Strategic Plan
2018 marked the launch of OCHA’s 2018-2021 Strategic Plan. The Strategic Plan sets OCHA’s priorities and
informs our work around the world.
In 2018, OCHA made concrete progress towards its
Strategic Objectives in the areas of Coordination, Information Management, Humanitarian Financing, Advocacy
and Policy. It also made significant progress against its
Management Objectives, which focus on internal institutional reforms.

Internally displaced
children in Paoua,
Ouham Pendé
Prefecture in the
Central African
Republic.
Credit: OCHA/Yaye
Nabo Sene

2

Transformed
coordination for
a more efficient

A more credible,
comprehensive and
evidence-based

and tailored
humanitarian
response.

situational
analysis.

4

An effective,
innovative

International acceptance of
the centrality of international

humanitarian
ﬁnancing system

humanitarian and human

that meets the
needs of
crisis-affected
people.

rights law, access and
protection that results in
meaningful action for affected
people, especially internally
displaced people.

5

Leadership
to drive
transformative
change for a
more responsive
and adaptable
humanitarian
system.

OCHA MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES

1

12

3

2

13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Field offices
WHAT OCHA’S COUNTRY OFFICES DO

Provide support to Governments to
respond to a crisis.
Provide support to the Resident
Coordinator/Humanitarian Coordinator to
coordinate the response.
Develop a common assessment of
needs and a common response plan
for the aid community.

MAKING
LIVES
BETTER

EASTERN AND SOUTHERN AFRICA

OCHA serves the world’s suffering people through its staff

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern
Africa (ROSEA)

based in offices around the world. In 2018, it mobilized more
than $15 billion for response efforts that it coordinated to help
more than 100 million people globally. OCHA teams negotiated on issues such as access, humanitarian principles, and
protection of civilians and aid workers to ensure that affected
people get life-saving relief on time. They advocated for the
rights of people caught up in crises and for funds to help them.

Build a common strategy to respond.
Manage Country-Based Pooled Funds.

In Eastern Africa, conflict and
climatic shocks compounded by
chronic underdevelopment caused
displacement and food insecurity,
particularly in Ethiopia, Somalia, South
Sudan and Sudan.

In Southern Africa, needs rose rapidly by the
end of 2018 due to weather-related events
and disease outbreaks resulting from endemic poverty, economic inequality and
political instability. Consequently, ROSEA
provided 1,300 days of surge staff and support through 97 deployments.
ROSEA staff collectively spent 246 days
providing emergency support to OCHA in
Ethiopia, assisting with coordination, information management and civil-military coordination (CMCoord) during the response
efforts for people affected by internal conflict
and displacement. In South Sudan, ROSEA
supported the famine prevention scale-up,

14

Provide up-to-date information
on the crisis and the needs of the
affected people.
Advocate for the needs and protection
of affected people and aid workers.
Advocate for access to affected people.
Help mobilize and track resources to
respond to the crisis.
Track and monitor the response
to a crisis.

while in Sudan staff supported the response
to help newly displaced people in Darfur,
assisted with community engagement, and
undertook negotiations to access the Two
Areas. In the Comoros, a rapid needs assessment was undertaken following the violent
clashes in October between the army and
demonstrators.
ROSEA provided the first surge deployments
in response to natural disasters in the region,
deploying staff in the immediate aftermath
of cyclones and floods in Djibouti, Kenya,
Madagascar and Somalia.
The UN Country Teams in Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Mozambique and Zimbabwe received support to respond to the
impact of poor and erratic rains on people,
including mobilizing resources through the
Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF)
and flash appeals, and ensuring early response action.
Inter-agency efforts to prepare for any Ebola-related response were also supported,
with staff deployed mainly to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), but also to
Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda to reinforce

15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

regional coordination. ROSEA contributed
about 100 days of surge to help the Ebola
response in DRC.

OCHA Eritrea continued to provide coordination, information management and advocacy support to the Resident Coordinator/
Humanitarian Coordinator (RC/HC), the
Botswana, Comoros, Eswatini, Lesotho, Humanitarian Country Team (HCT ), donors
Madagascar, Mozambique, Namibia, South and implementing partners to track fundAfrica and Zimbabwe were supported to en- ing and implementation of the BSRP and
sure that these countries had put into place the UN-Government Strategic Partnership
the Minimum Preparedness Actions to be Cooperation Framework 2017-2021.
ready to respond to new disasters. In addition, ROSEA provided training to enhance OCHA Eritrea led the internal UNCT continthe preparedness of national response au- gency planning related to the opening – after
thorities in Angola and Madagascar.
20 years – of the border with Ethiopia. We
supported advocacy efforts by the RC/HC
ROSEA consists of 31 staff (13 international, to open humanitarian access and mobilize
18 national) based in Nairobi, Kenya, and 2 resources and facilitated a Central Emerstaff in a Humanitarian Advisory Team (HAT) gency Response Fund (CERF) Underfunded
in Madagascar. The office in Johannesburg Emergencies grant of $5 million.
closed in March 2019.
In 2018, OCHA Eritrea had seven staff (three
international, four national) based in the
Eritrea
capital city, Asmara.
2018 was a significant year for Eritrea,
with the end of the war with Ethiopia
and the lifting of UN Security Council
sanctions prompting an unpredicted
change in the regional dynamics. This has
created a new momentum in relations
between the Government and the UN.

OCHA Eritrea operated in a context in which
humanitarian issues, tools and mechanisms
were not recognized by the Government. All
these elements were therefore integrated
into development planning.
OCHA Eritrea facilitated, consolidated and
monitored the execution of the 2018 Basic
Services Response Priorities (BSRP) plan,
an internal UN plan that targeted 950,000
people with multisectoral assistance
across several sectors such as health care
and education.
In 2018, the funding requirement for humanitarian/basic services priorities was estimated at $24 million, to help target nearly
1 million people.

16

new field locations, to mobilize resources for
new emergencies, including in new conflict
hotspots in Gedeo (Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples’ Region (SNNPR)),
West Guji (Oromia), Benishangul Gumuz region, and East and West Wellega (Oromia).
An analysis by OCHA of trends over a threeyear period related to chronic relief beneficiaries determined that some 3.4 million
people had received assistance. The analysis
also showed that an average of 300,000 cases
of severe acute malnutrition (SAM) and 3
million cases of moderate acute malnutrition (MAM) were recorded each year even
without a drought. To better link humanitarian and development work, OCHA and
partners developed a Humanitarian and
Disaster Resilience Plan composed of three
pillars – prevention/mitigation; response
and response preparedness; and recovery
and systems strengthening – to reduce costly
emergency operations in the future.

water, sanitation and hygiene, health and,
in response to drought, conflict and flood
displacements.
OCHA’s work in Ethiopia in 2018 was supported by 83 staff (54 national, 16 international, 13 short-term personnel) based in the
capital city, Addis Ababa, and a subnational
presence in 14 field locations – the Somali
region (Jijiga, Gode); SNNPR (Awassa, Dilla); Oromia region (Bule Hora/West Guji,
Yabello/Moyale, Negelle Borena/Guji, Bale
Robe, Nekemte-Gimbi/Wellegas); Dire
Dawa region (Dire Dawa town); Afar region
(Semera); Tigray region (Mekele); Gambella
region (Gambella town); and Amhara region (Bahirdar).

Shelter being
constructed for
internally displaced
households in

Ethiopia
Following two years of exceptional
drought from 2015 to 2017, Ethiopia
witnessed positive political
developments marred by a surge in
conflict in 2018. Ethiopia also saw an
increase in internal displacement, with
nearly 2.95 million internally displaced
persons (IDPs) across different parts
of the country by the end of the year,
including 2.4 million people displaced
by conflict, and 522,000 climateinduced displacements. Continued food
insecurity, acute malnutrition, disease
outbreaks and floods exacerbated the
humanitarian situation.

Guided by an inter-cluster prioritization
exercise, the Ethiopia Humanitarian Fund
(EHF) allocated more than $116 million of
EHF and CERF funds to multisector projects with high investments for nutrition,

Shabelle Zone,
Somali region,
Ethiopia.
Credit: OCHA/Kaela
Glass

OCHA coordinated life-saving response for
7.95 million people in need of relief food/
cash assistance and non-food assistance for
an additional 9.45 million people. In partnership with more than 82 humanitarian
partners, OCHA scaled up its staffing capacity, as well as its geographic presence in six

17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Greater accountability in
the response to recurrent disasters
In 2018, the ERC launched an Inter-Agency Humanitarian Evaluation (IAHE) of the drought response in Ethiopia, marking the first
time that a slow-onset, recurrent disaster is being assessed.
The exercise involves an independent review of the extent to which
the humanitarian response has met the objectives of the response
plans of 2016-2018 over time, in particular in terms of saving lives
and reducing morbidity; protecting and restoring livelihoods; and
preparing for and responding to other humanitarian shocks.
The IAHE of the drought response in Ethiopia will serve to support
learning, strengthen accountability and improve preparedness
and response for the humanitarian system in similar future disaster responses. The evaluation is expected to be completed in
October 2019.

Somalia
Somalia remained among the most
complex and long-standing humanitarian
crises in the world, with one third of
its people in need of humanitarian
assistance and protection. In 2018, OCHA
Somalia effectively coordinated more
than 230 humanitarian partners, providing
$850 million in assistance to almost 3
million people.
A nurse assesses
a malnourished
child at a mobile
facility run by the
Somali Young
Doctors Association
at the Ala Aamin
settlement for
internally displaced
persons in
Mogadishu, Somalia.
Credit: OCHA/Matija
Kovac

18

OCHA played a significant role in enhancing multisectoral and integrated response
underpinned by the centrality of protection
in all planned actions.
Donor support was sustained through
2018, including at the London High-Level
Event and the Brussels Somalia Partnership
Forum. With almost $1.1 billion mobilized in
2018, humanitarian partners were reaching
more than 2 million men, women, boys and
girls with food every month.
The Somalia Humanitarian Fund allocated
$53 million to 58 humanitarian partners
through six allocation rounds. In addition,
CERF provided $17 million to support response to the lingering impact of drought
in northern Somalia and in flood-affected
regions in south and central Somalia.
With 81 staff, consisting of 22 international,
57 national and 2 other personnel, OCHA
Somalia’s head office is in Mogadishu, with
sub-offices in Baidoa (South West), Doolow
satellite office (Jubaland), Garowe (Puntland), Gaalkacyo (Galmudug), Hargeisa (Somaliland), Kismayo (Jubaland), Mogadishu
(Banadir) and Belet Weyne (HirShabelle).
A support office in Nairobi, Kenya, assisted
with information management, administration, strategic planning and coordination,
humanitarian financing and donor liaison.

ing in the Sudan People’s Liberation Army
in Opposition (SPLA-IO) controlled areas.
OCHA organized a mission led by the HC
As conflict entered its fifth year in South
to Khartoum, Sudan, to meet with SPLA-IO
Sudan, ERC Lowcock visited the region,
leader Riek Machar in November 2018, recalled for all parties to cease hostilities
sulting in reduced bureaucratic pressures
amid fresh fighting that displaced tens of
on humanitarian organizations in SPLA-IO
thousands of people.
areas. Capitalizing on OCHA’s access and
information management capacities, the
In 2018, OCHA South Sudan coordinated office supported the HCT with nuanced and
the efforts of 11 UN and 156 NGO (non-gov- operationally relevant access analysis.
ernmental organization) partners to provide life-saving assistance and protection The OCHA-managed South Sudan Humanto more than 5 million people. OCHA staff itarian Fund directed funding towards the
worked to expand access to people most in most urgent priorities in consultation with
need. OCHA used the opening up of access the Inter-Cluster Working Group and the
following a revitalized peace agreement HCT, allocating $53.4 million in 2018, inin September 2018 to organize missions cluding $51.4 million against the 2018 Huto locations that had been inaccessible for manitarian Response Plan (HRP) priorities,
more than two years. OCHA also supported and $2 million through a reserve allocation
efforts to rapidly scale up Ebola prepared- to jump-start Ebola preparedness actions.
ness across the Equatoria region (which Nearly 40 per cent of all funds allocated
covers nine states) following an outbreak went to national NGOs. OCHA supportin north-eastern DRC.
ed the HC’s resource mobilization efforts
through 2018, resulting in nearly $1.2 billion
OCHA continued to play a central role in fa- received towards the $1.7 billion appeal.
cilitating and advocating for humanitarian
access for affected people and the human- In 2018, OCHA South Sudan had 87 positions
itarian community. While violence began (52 national, 35 international) in Juba and 8
to decline after the peace agreement, bu- field offices in Aweil, Bentiu, Bor, Malakal,
reaucratic impediments continued, includ- Torit, Wau, Yambio and Yei.
South Sudan

Children run
through the bushes
in Mundu town
in South Sudan’s
Central Equatoria
region.
Credit: UNMISS/Eric
Kanalstein

19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

ROWCA worked on mitigating the impact
of crises in the region with the Economic
Regional Office for West and Central
Community of West African States and the
Africa (ROWCA)
Economic Community of Central African
States, furthering operational partnership
Some of the world’s most acute and
and learning among national disaster management agencies. The office supported the
prolonged crises and close to a third of
development of Humanitarian Needs Overglobal humanitarian needs are found
views (HNOs), HRPs and other humanitarin West and Central Africa. In 2018, 44
ian and advocacy documents in the region.
million people required assistance and
In addition, ROWCA supported CMCoord in
protection across the region. ROWCA
Burkina Faso and Nigeria, developed proteccoordinated and supported humanitarian
tion and access strategies in Burkina Faso
and Cameroon, and facilitated contingency
action, advocated for people in need,
planning in Cameroon, Guinea-Bissau and
mobilized funds, and catalysed efforts
Togo.
The office rolled out the Emergency
to address the structural causes of
Response Preparedness approach in Senevulnerability in one of the regions most
gal, led a Capacity for Disaster Reduction
exposed to shocks.
Initiative (a global partnership of 19 UN and
non-UN organizations) mission to Ghana,
ROWCA provided surge capacity and tech- and supported the coordination of cash
nical support in the region, deploying 21 programming in CAR.
staff for 1,368 days to support emergency
response efforts and 15 staff for 242 days In 2018, ROWCA had 36 staff (16 internaon missions to support operational readi- tional, 20 national) based in Dakar and 2 naness and partnerships. The office also took tional staff as part of a HAT in Burkina Faso.
a leading role in rapidly scaling up coordination and information management support
for the Ebola response in DRC. In addition,
the office surged staff to respond to natural
disasters in Cabo Verde, Côte d’Ivoire, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania and Senegal.
WEST AND CENTRAL AFRICA

The World Food

Sudan

Programme
distributes food
to the internally
displaced near the
Murta settlement,
Kadugli, Sudan.
Credit: OCHA/Sari
Omer

During 2018, OCHA continued to
advocate for humanitarian access in
conflict-affected areas in Darfur, South
Kordofan and Blue Nile. Through a range
of advocacy efforts, OCHA was able to
secure access to previously inaccessible
areas, including some villages in Darfur’s
Jebel Marra region under the control of
non-State armed groups. Humanitarian
partners had not accessed some of
these areas since the beginning of the
conflict. This led to inter-agency needs
assessments coordinated by OCHA, and
corresponding response.

OCHA also coordinated inter-agency assessments in newly accessible areas in South
Kordofan. This was possible because of
OCHA’s engagement with the Procedures
Monitoring Committee, a body chaired by
the Government to implement its directives
on supporting humanitarian action.
OCHA raised global awareness about the
growing economic crisis in Sudan through
a visit by the ERC and subsequent visits
by the UN Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and
World Food Programme (WFP) Executive

20

Directors. The increased advocacy, as well
as an analysis of the humanitarian impact
and requirements conducted by OCHA, led
to increased funding, including some $62.4
million disbursed in 2018 through CERF and
the Sudan Humanitarian Fund.
For the first time in Sudan, OCHA conducted a CMCoord training for members of the
military. The workshop aimed to improve
their understanding of the importance of
principled humanitarian response and humanitarian access.
The knowledge disseminated through this
training played a role in the successful access negotiations during 2018.
OCHA Sudan had 84 staff (22 international, 62 national), working in Khartoum and
across seven sub-offices in El Fasher (North
Darfur), Zalingei (Central Darfur), Nyala
(South Darfur), El Geneina (West Darfur),
Ed Daein (East Darfur), Kadugli (South
Kordofan), and Damazine (Blue Nile), as
well as in Abyei.

Burundians
repatriated from
Tanzania at the
transit centre of
Mabanda, Makamba
Province, Burundi.
Credit: OCHA/
Christian Cricboom

In response to the food and nutrition crisis
in the Sahel, ROWCA led advocacy efforts
with regional partners, increasing visibility
and mobilizing resources, including through
a regional CERF allocation. The office also
helped to organize humanitarian/donor conferences for the region and provided support
to HCs for high-level events and Member
State briefings.
In September, more than $2 billion was raised
at a conference hosted by Germany, Nigeria,
Norway and the UN to support humanitarian, stabilization and resilience activities in
the Lake Chad region. Multilateral financial
institutions announced $467 million in concessional loans for those countries affected
by the Boko Haram insurgency. 

Burundi
There was a slight improvement in the
humanitarian situation in Burundi during
2018. However, significant numbers of
people remained highly vulnerable and
in need of humanitarian aid. Nearly 13

21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Making lives better

OCHA
successfully
supported
resource
mobilization
efforts for the
Burundi HRP,
which was
significantly
underfunded
during the first
part of the
year. OCHA’s
advocacy efforts
resulted in the
HRP receiving
$92.3 million
– 56 per cent
of the total
requirement – by
the end of the
year.

Deputy ERC Ursula
Mueller talks to
Nigerian children
at the Minawao
refugee camp, Far
North, Cameroon.
At the time of the
visit in February, the
camp was receiving
50 new persons
every week due to
renewed violence
by Boko Haramaffiliated armed
groups.
Credit: OCHA/Eve
Sabbagh

22

Making lives better

per cent of the country’s people were in
crisis (phase 3) and emergency (phase 4)
phases of food insecurity, as defined by
the Integrated Phase Classification, and
in urgent need of life-saving assistance.
Some 240,000 people, including more
than 168,000 IDPs and 71,000 Congolese
refugees, remained displaced in
Burundi, the majority of them in need of
multisectoral emergency assistance and
durable solutions.

OCHA led a joint vulnerability mapping and
analysis, which contributed to the HCT’s
efforts to strengthen people’s resilience by
linking emergency response and mediumand long-term interventions. OCHA also
supported the advocacy efforts of the HC
and HCT, particularly during the last quarter
of 2018 following the promulgation of a law
suspending international NGOs.

and drafting country-specific standard
operating procedures. In addition, OCHA
contributed to building the capacity of more
than 130 national partners in emergency coordination and needs assessment.
OCHA successfully supported resource mobilization efforts for the Burundi HRP, which
was significantly underfunded during the
first part of the year. OCHA’s advocacy efforts
resulted in the HRP receiving $92.3 million –
56 per cent of the total requirement – by the
end of the year.

With a total amount of $7.3 million, CERF
is the third major donor to the HRP. In February, CERF supported the response to the
influx of 15,000 refugees from DRC through
its emergency response window with an
allocation of $2.4 million. In September,
CERF provided $4.9 million through the
Underfunded Emergencies window. An
additional allocation of $2.4 million was
announced in December as part of the
OCHA played a key role in promoting the preparations for a possible spread of Ebola
linkages between humanitarian and devel- from neighbouring DRC.
opment work. Efforts were made to strengthen cross-cutting issues such as protection, OCHA Burundi has 12 staff (6 international,
gender, accountability to affected popula- 6 national) based in Bujumbura.
tions, and use of cash programming. OCHA
also provided support to the UNCT’s focal
point on efforts to prevent sexual exploitation and abuse, helping to conduct surveys

Cameroon
In 2018, a new humanitarian crisis
emerged in western Cameroon, that
forced more than 437,000 people to
escape violence in the North-West and
South-West regions. The displacement
led to a 30 per cent increase in
the number of people in need of
humanitarian assistance.

As the first entity to set up an office in the
North-West, OCHA facilitated the deployment of humanitarian actors and the scaleup of assistance in the two regions. At the
same time, OCHA took over the leadership
of coordination in the Far North region, Despite efforts to mobilize resources for
strengthening coordination between sec- Cameroon’s largest humanitarian emertors and the national level.
gency, the response remained largely underfunded, with only 40 per cent of the HRP
In total, OCHA supported more than 110 funding requirements met by the end of 2018.
humanitarian partners in providing emergency assistance in 8 of the 10 regions of the OCHA Cameroon has 25 staff: 11 international
country. OCHA provided local responders and 14 national. OCHA enlarged its presence
with the tools to deploy in a safe and prin- with a new sub-office in Buea, in addition
cipled manner.
to its head office in Yaounde, its sub-offices
in Maroua and a satellite office in Kousseri.
These included capacity-building activities on humanitarian principles, protection
mainstreaming and coordination. OCHA’s Central African Republic
expertise was also necessary to support
humanitarian access and CMCoord in the The humanitarian crisis in the Central
Far North, North-West and South-West, African Republic (CAR) remained severe.
where humanitarian space had been shrink- In 2018, 2.5 million people were in need
ing due to insecurity and administrative
of humanitarian assistance, a figure that
impediments.

Larissa
Néoumangue, a
displaced mother,
with her baby in
Paoua, Central
African Republic.
Larissa’s husband
was killed when
her village was
attacked in January
2018. Thousands of
people in villages
to the north of
Paoua fled violence
and took shelter in
religious sites or
with host families.
Credit: OCHA/Yaye
Nabo Sene

increased to 2.9 million by the end of
Deputy ERC Ursula Mueller visited Came- the year. With a total population of 4.7
roon in February to urge the international million, the number of people in need
community and the Government to step in CAR represented one of the highest
up support for humanitarian action in ratios of people in need to population
the country, which is most affected by re- in the world. The humanitarian needs
gion-wide violence sparked by Boko Haram.
were a direct result of conflict, increasing
Using rigorous and gender-sensitive data violence affecting civilians and attacks
to prioritize the most life-saving activities, on humanitarian workers, and a
OCHA coordinated and prepared two CERF lack of funding to restore access to
allocations in 2018. In total, CERF provided basic services.

$15 million to protect the most vulnerable in the Far North, the South-West and
the North-West.

23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

In 2018, Deputy ERC Mueller visited CAR
to urge the international community to
boost their support for humanitarian efforts, and warned,
“If we do not receive funding, people will die.”

A woman beneficiary
of a cash-based
programme with her
identity card in Brim,
Lac region, Chad.
The woman, along
with other residents
of her village on
one of the islands in
Lake Chad, had fled
when a Boko Haramaffiliated group
attacked them.
Credit: OCHA/Eve
Sabbagh

OCHA CAR facilitated the coordination of the
humanitarian response of more than 150 actors. Pooled funds continued to play a critical
role in addressing urgent funding gaps and
growing humanitarian needs, representing
more than 15 per cent of the overall HRP
funding in 2018. A total of $38.4 million was
allocated ($28.4 million from the CAR Humanitarian Fund and $10 million through the
CERF Underfunded Emergencies window).

OCHA CAR has 96 staff (28 international, 68
national) in 10 locations including the national office (Bangui), sub-offices (Bambari,
Bouar, Kaga Bandoro) and satellite offices
(Alindao, Batangafo, Berberati, Bria, Bocaranga, Paoua).

OCHA played a key role in joining up humanitarian and development work. OCHA
fostered dialogue between Government,
humanitarian and development actors and
donors, which resulted in a joint analysis
of needs and the definition of six collective
outcomes to be achieved by 2019.

OCHA also facilitated a capacity-building
process of government structures and partners in the capital city, N’Djamena, and in
the field, providing the humanitarian community with a robust prevention capacity
based on an early warning system and rapid
response capacity.

Chad

The efforts have been captured in a threeyear strategic framework and plan (20172019). The collective outcomes link the
HRP with the UN Development Assistance
Framework, the World Bank Country Partnership Framework, the National Development Plan and the Vision 2030 of the
Government as a first concrete step in the
collaboration between humanitarian and
development actors in Chad.

OCHA Chad has 51 staff (20 international, 31
national) spread across the national office in
N’Djamena and three sub-offices in Abéché,
Baga Sola and Goré.

Present in Chad since 2005, the OCHA
country office has continued to respond
to the three major crises in the country.

The first crisis involved the influx of people fleeing violence in the Lake Chad Basin
(from Nigeria and Cameroon into the WestOCHA also played a leading role in integrat- ern Lac region), from CAR into southern
ing the Inter-Agency Standing Committee Chad, and from Libya and Sudan into the
(IASC) Gender with Age Marker (GAM) in northern and eastern parts of the country.
the response. (see page 52).
The second crisis is that of high levels of
food insecurity and malnutrition, and the
OCHA’s efforts helped to strengthen engage- third is health emergencies. Poor develment with affected communities. CMCoord opment and lack of essential services has
mechanisms were also expanded with the compounded the chronic vulnerability to
activation of two more coordination plat- successive shocks of some 4.4 million peoforms in the field.
ple identified in the 2018 HRP.

The joint mission to Chad in October 2018
by ERC Lowcock and United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Administrator
Achim Steiner provided essential support
for these initiatives. Based on considerable
joint analysis and engagement with a wide
range of stakeholders in 2018, the 2019 HRP
reflects the interlinkage between national,
development and humanitarian planning
and programming.
Earlier in the year, Deputy ERC Mueller also
travelled to Chad to raise the profile of the
crises in the country.
“Chad will be high on my agenda, and I will
bring the voices of the people that I talked to
in the Lac region to the attention of the international community to step up financing,”
Ms. Mueller said following her visit.

20th anniversary of the Guiding
Principles on Internal Displacement
An action plan to strengthen the response to internal displacement
in specific countries was launched in April 2018.
The three-year plan was developed by a group of entities including OCHA, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees (UNHCR), the Special Rapporteur on the Human
Rights of IDPs, the International Organization for Migration (IOM)
and partners. The plan aims to strengthen country responses to
internal displacement and foster sharing good practices among
Member States and humanitarian and development organizations.
The action plan also aims to help prepare for disaster-induced
displacement and promote durable solutions. It focuses on four
areas: law and policy, information management, protracted displacement/durable solutions and IDP participation.
OCHA co-leads the group together with UNHCR. As part of this
work, OCHA and partners showcased successful humanitarian-development projects supporting IDPs in learning events in CAR and
Ukraine, building on the findings from the 2017 study Breaking the
Impasse: Reducing protracted internal displacement as a collective outcome.

OCHA’s active engagement in CMCoord has
been consistently recognized. OCHA supported the Multinational Joint Task Force
in the development of its strategy on the
protection of civilians, including a strong The plan came about following a request to OCHA from the UN
focus on humanitarian principles and in- Secretary-General’s Executive Committee to consult with relevant
actors on strengthening the prevention of, and response to, interternational humanitarian law.
OCHA was instrumental in supporting the
development and implementation of the
HCT strategy on emergency preparedness.

24

nal displacement. The Committee also asked for durable solutions
and garner political support and commitments around those
issues ahead of the 20th anniversary of the Guiding Principles on
Internal Displacement.

25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Deputy ERC Ursula
Mueller with residents of
Brim village, Lac region,
Chad. The villagers are
hosting people displaced
by attacks on their homes
by Boko Haram-affiliated
armed groups. The
Deputy ERC visited Chad
in February 2018.

Credit: OCHA/Naomi Frerotte

26

27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Democratic Republic of the Congo
The declaration of an L3 emergency
response in DRC at the end of 2017
meant that the focus of 2018 was
scaling up the humanitarian system’s
capacity to respond to the escalation in
needs. The Level 3 response has since
been phased out.

The impact of the rapid deterioration of
the security context in 2017 was acutely felt
across the provinces of Kasai, South Kivu
and Tanganyika. This was compounded
by large-scale movement of people, which
added to the complexity of a response that
was already dealing with important needs
and a challenging operating environment.
A young resident of
the Minova site for
internally displaced
persons in South
Kivu, Democratic
Republic of the
Congo. The Minova
site was set up
when hundreds of

conflict-prone provinces of Ituri, Maniema,
North Kivu, South Kivu and Tanganyika, as
well as across the Kasai region. DRC’s size
and volatility can result in as many as 100
cluster meetings a month. DRC is also host
to about 500,000 refugees, mostly from
Rwanda, Burundi and CAR. In 2018, DRC
also confronted two Ebola outbreaks.
In response, ERC Lowcock released $10 million from CERF to South Sudan, Uganda,
Burundi, and Rwanda to stem the regional
spread of Ebola, a looming possibility due
to population displacement from DRC to
neighbouring countries.
In 2018, OCHA DRC went through a complete functional review, tailoring both its
team composition and footprint to be better
equipped to tackle 2019 priorities and to remain agile as new situations emerge.

Throughout 2018, humanitarian needs in
DRC remained acute because of persistent
conflict, pre-electoral tensions, and the In 2018, OCHA DRC had 131 staff (28 interrisk of epidemics including cholera and Eb- national, 91 national, 4 UN Volunteers, 8
ola outbreaks.
other national contracts) working across
11 locations, including the national office
OCHA helped raise more than $528 mil- (Kinshasa), sub-offices (Bukavu, Goma and
lion for the humanitarian response in DRC, Kananga) and satellite offices (Beni, Bunia,
which hosts one of the world’s largest dis- Lubumbashi, Mbuji Mayi, Shabunda, Tshiplaced populations.
kapa and Uvira).

families fled the
city of Goma after it
was taken by armed
groups in 2007.
Credit: OCHA/Eve
Sabbagh

Close to 200 international NGOs, 750 national NGOs and 12 multilateral organizations Mali
deliver assistance in DRC. This requires
an extensive humanitarian coordination The humanitarian situation in Mali
system at the national level and in the five significantly deteriorated in 2018 due to
increasing conflict and intercommunal
clashes, as well as a poor rainy season
in 2017 and floods in 2018. The number
of IDPs more than tripled in 2018, from
38,000 to more than 120,000.

As the situation worsened, Deputy ERC Mueller visited Mali to call for greater international attention to the millions affected by
the violent clashes.

“Violence and intercommunal clashes have
got worse here this year […] and this has
huge implications, including humanitarian
organizations not able to access areas and
people in need of assistance,”

the country during peaks of malnutrition,
food insecurity, epidemics and flooding.
Working with about 175 humanitarian partners, OCHA coordinated assistance to more
than 2.3 million people targeted across the
country – an increase of 400,000 people
compared with 2017. OCHA also played an
she said.
important role in optimizing the cooperaOCHA supported humanitarian partners to tion with the Government of Niger, capitalprovide assistance to 405,000 people with izing on their willingness to take the lead
water, sanitation and hygiene services and on humanitarian issues while considering
items; 95,174 girls and boys out of school how to further support them in terms of
were given access to education; 120,792 capacity-building. OCHA has been a key
girls and boys were supported with school partner of the Ministry of Humanitarian
canteens; 984,739 medical consultations, Affairs and the Office of the Prime Minister
124,164 cases of severe acute malnutrition and supports them in their coordination
and more than 135,000 cases of moderate role as well as in information management
acute malnutrition were addressed; 1,019,000 and advocacy.
people received food assistance; and 828,000
people received livelihood support.
With 38 staff (7 international, 31 national),
OCHA supported the Niger response through
In 2018, the country office and its partners a robust field presence with an office in Niaidentified hotspots to better capture people’s mey and sub-offices in Diffa, Tahoua and
needs in hard-to-reach areas and maintained Zinder regions and two satellite offices in
contact with armed groups in Bamako and in N’Guimi and Ouallam.
the field to advocate for humanitarian access.
OCHA managed humanitarian financing
instruments to direct funding towards the
most urgent priorities, with CERF providing
a total of $16 million.

With 7.7 million people in need
of humanitarian assistance, the
humanitarian crisis in Nigeria’s northWith 44 staff (28 national, 16 internationeast and the Lake Chad region was one
al), OCHA supported the Mali response and
maintained a robust field presence with a of the most severe in the world in 2018.
head office in Bamako as well as sub-offices In its ninth year, the conflict continued
to cause insecurity and has resulted
in Gao, Mopti and Timbuktu.
in widespread forced displacement,
violations of international humanitarian
Niger
and human rights law, severe protection
concerns, and a massive food and
In 2018, OCHA Niger improved
nutrition crisis.
humanitarian access to deliver life-saving
assistance and protection to people
In 2018, efforts were made to achieve a “fit
caught up in conflict in the regions of
for purpose” humanitarian coordination
Diffa, Tahoua and Tillabéri. Strengthened
structure, including streamlined coordinaCMCoord mechanisms played a key part
tion mechanisms, to maximize impact and
in securing better access.
to expedite operations. A local coordination

OCHA Niger coordinated the provision of
humanitarian assistance in other parts of

28

Nigeria

group was revitalized, leading to the establishment of nine of such groups to focus on
deep field response.

29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

4
PREPAREDNESS
Making lives better

Making lives better

BREAKDOWN OF SURGE MECHANISMS
To boost the response in Borno, Adamawa
and Yobe states, resource mobilization and
awareness-raising initiatives were facilitated by the High-Level Conference on the
Lake Chad region and the Nigeria Humanitarian Fund – Private Sector Initiative. In
2018, the Nigeria Humanitarian Fund allocated $36 million – 8 per cent of which
went to national NGOs, providing primarily
assistance to people newly arriving from
ongoing hostilities.

OCHA trained humanitarian partners in 11
deep field locations in Borno on international humanitarian and human rights law,
access, CMCoord, protection against sexual
violence and abuse /gender-based violence
and the centrality of protection in humanitarian response. OCHA also delivered seven
CMCoord trainings to 181 military officers
and more than 50 humanitarian partners.

With 60 staff (19 international, 41 national), OCHA supported the Nigeria response
OCHA supported the HCT’s approval of stra- with a head office in Abuja and sub-offices
tegic frameworks to guide the response and in Damaturu, Maiduguri and Yola.
reinforce understanding of the humanitarian imperative and humanitarian principles.
These frameworks include an access strategy; humanitarian-civil-military guidance;
an HCT advocacy strategy; and a community
engagement strategy.

ASP

Associates Surge Pool

ERR

Emergency Response Roster

In 2018, the RSS administered 142 surge deployments
in support of OCHA operations in 28 countries. This
included deployments through the ERR, SBPP, ASP, UN
Disaster Assessment and Coordination (UNDAC) team
and environmental expert deployments.
Most surge deployments (88 per cent) supported
protracted, complex emergencies. As a part of OCHA’s
change management process, a Task Team was formed
in 2018 to consider the function of extant surge mechanisms. This has and will continue to impact the ERR,
with pending adjustments to be made to ensure that

30

5 16

FEMALE

MALE

2010

2018

DEPLOYMENTS

16 13

FEMALE

MALE

2008

2018

570 deployments in 11 years

SBPP

38

Launched in 2000

Standby Partnership Programme

DEPLOYMENTS

12 26

FEMALE

MALE

2000

756 deployments in 19 years

UNDAC

40

Launched in 1993

United Nations Disaster
Assessment and Coordination

2

DEPLOYMENTS1

2018

14 26

FEMALE

MALE

1993

2018

1,604 deployments in 26 years

4

Launched in 1993

DEPLOYMENTS

0 4

FEMALE

MALE

1993

2018

82 deployments in 13 years
1

These mechanisms are the Emergency Response Roster
(ERR), the Associates Surge Pool (ASP) and the StandBy Partnership Programme (SBPP).

29

Launched in 2008

UN Environment/OCHA Joint Unit

Mobilizing staff
during an emergency

The mechanisms are managed by the Response Services Section (RSS) within OCHA’s Emergency Response
Support Branch in Geneva.

DEPLOYMENTS

232 deployments in 9 years

JEU

During unforeseen emergencies and disasters, when a
crisis deteriorates, or when a force majeure affects an
office, OCHA mobilizes staff from regional offices and
from three mechanisms.

21

Launched in 2010

staff are pre-identified and prepared to contribute to
surge requirements as both individuals and as a team.
In response to the escalating Ebola outbreak in eastern
DRC in late 2018, OCHA’s internal and external surge
mechanisms were activated.
Thanks to the rapid surge support, OCHA was able to
effectively establish coordination mechanisms and a
presence on the ground. There were 13 surge deployments to the emergency through the ERR, SBPP and
ASP core mechanisms. Four OCHA staff were rapidly
deployed to Goma, Kinshasa and North Kivu to provide
initial support to the response, followed by five SBPP
deployments to Kinshasa and South Kivu. To ensure
longer-term support, four ASPs were identified and deployed to help manage the Country-Based Pooled Funds
(CBPFs), public information, inter-cluster coordination
and general field coordination.

2

In addition, 10 UNDAC support staff were deployed.
Environmental experts deployed independently of UNDAC missions.

2018 SURGE DEPLOYMENTS

142

DEPLOYMENTS
11
Europe, Central
Asia and the
Caucasus

BY GENDER

47
19
Asia and
the Paciﬁc
18
Middle East
and North Africa

19
Latin America
and the Caribbean

63
West and
Central Africa

95

BY EMERGENCY TYPE

77
PROTRACTED 61
EMERGENCY NATURAL/SUDDEN
ONSET DISASTER

12
Southern and
Eastern Africa

4
PREPAREDNESS

BREAKDOWN OF SURGE MECHANISMS

ASP

Launched in 2010

Associates Surge Pool

21

DEPLOYMENTS

31

5 16

FEMALE

MALE

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
Regional Office for the Middle East and North
Africa (ROMENA)
Armed conflict, political instability and
climatic factors continued to contribute to
a complex and challenging humanitarian
landscape across much of the Middle
East and North Africa region in 2018.

ROMENA continued to prioritize surge
The 2018 Iraq support across the region, with seven staff
HRP was 92.5 deployed for a combined total of 428 days
per cent funded to support emergency response and readiby year’s end, ness efforts – including 271 days in Libya, 92
making it the days in Jordan, 26 days in the OCHA Yemen
best-funded office in Jordan, 16 days in the United Arab
response Emirates and 21 days in Afghanistan.

host communities living in areas heavily
impacted by armed conflict, particularly
the military operations against the Islamic
State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL).

Of the 6 million people displaced at the
height of the conflict, 4.2 million have returned home. Throughout 2018, OCHA
worked to ensure a focus on protection in
the humanitarian response, engaging counterparts in the Government, UN agencies and
NGOs on prioritizing those who may be most
vulnerable, including families with perceived
affiliations to extremist groups.

OCHA supported 170 partners to reach 3
million out of 3.4 million people targeted
with humanitarian assistance (87 per cent),
including 1.3 million children and 1.4 million women and girls. Humanitarian actors
globally, and
implemented programmes across 107 of
reflecting Emergency Response Preparedness was an Iraq’s 109 districts, although the majority
strong donor important pillar of ROMENA’s work, with of the response focused on serving IDPs
confidence in such processes supported in Egypt, Iran, living in camps. The 2018 Iraq HRP was
both projected Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey. ROMENA 92.5 per cent funded by year’s end, making
outcomes and continued to provide timely and effective it the best-funded response globally, and
results. administrative and technical support to reflecting strong donor confidence in both
the Libya Country Office and OCHA HATs projected outcomes and results.
in Central Asia and Iran, as well as the office
in Abu Dhabi.
With 56 staff (22 international, 34 national),
OCHA maintained its main office in Baghdad,
ROMENA was made up of 21 staff (7 interna- a regional office in Erbil, and field sub-oftional, 14 national), including HATs in Iran, fices in Erbil, Dahuk, Kirkuk and Ninewa
Georgia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakh- (hosted in Erbil), as well as a presence in
stan, covering Central Asia.
Anbar, Salah al-Din and Sulaymaniyah.
In addition to these HATs, OCHA also established an office in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Libya
Emirates in 2018 to support operational
coordination in the region, with four staff Since mid-2014, instability and insecurity
(two national, two international).
have driven civilian casualties and
Iraq
The humanitarian context in Iraq
underwent a substantial evolution
in 2018. Operations pivoted from the
delivery of emergency response during
armed conflict to addressing the needs of
millions of IDPs, returnees and vulnerable

32

displacement in Lybia. The crisis has
ravaged the economy, while public
services decay. In 2018, Libya continued
to be the main point of departure
for people attempting to cross the
Mediterranean Sea towards Europe.
Many refugees and migrants were
subjected to exploitation, abuse, sexual
violence, discrimination, unlawful

killings and torture by armed groups
inside Libya, including those affiliated
with state institutions. In 2018, some
1.6 million people – a quarter of the
population – were affected by the crisis,
and 1.1 million people were in need of
humanitarian assistance.

ian space due to growing bureaucratic impediments and access restrictions, OCHA
played a pivotal role in supporting partners
to reach remote areas to assess needs and
provide assistance to the most vulnerable
populations. To this end, OCHA also established a Humanitarian Access Working
Group in 2018, which aims to analyse and
In February 2018, following a prolonged pe- identify solutions to improve access.
riod of remote operations from Tunis due to
security restrictions in Libya, the UN began At the end of 2018, OCHA Libya had 14 staff
to re-establish a permanent presence in Libya (8 international, 6 national) working from
and, by late 2018, nearly all UN international Tripoli, with a support office in Tunis, with
staff had been relocated. Efforts to expand 2 national staff and coordination support to
permanent field presence in 2018 culminated operations in the eastern parts of the country
in the opening of the Benghazi sub-office provided from Tripoli.
in early 2019.

On a joint mission with UNDP in December,
Deputy ERC Mueller witnessed the impact
of the conflict and dire conditions in refugee
and migrant detention centres. The mission
called for strengthened, joined-up efforts
to address the needs of Libya’s most vulnerable people.
In 2018, OCHA Libya played a leading role in
integrating gender and protection concerns
across the humanitarian response, and in
strengthening engagement with affected
communities. Amid shrinking humanitar-

A World Health
Organization staff
member follows up
with a Yazidi mother
on her daughter’s
vaccinations. The
photo was taken
during a 2018
mission organized
by OCHA to the
Sinjar Mountains,
Iraq. Credit: OCHA/
Manja Vidic

occupied Palestinian territory (oPt)
The humanitarian situation in the
oPt deteriorated significantly in 2018,
particularly in Gaza, which experienced
recurrent outbreaks of violence and a
large number of casualties from the
“Great March of Return” demonstrations.
OCHA oPt supported the HC in
generating global awareness of the
serious humanitarian situation and in

33

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

A woman signs the
living petition at
UN Headquarters in
New York.
Credit: OCHA/
Jessica Redmond

coordinating the response, through our
leading role in information management,
coordination, and through factual
reporting and coordinated advocacy.

A “living petition” for World
Humanitarian Day
For World Humanitarian Day on 19 August, OCHA and
humanitarian partners created a “living petition” to advocate for the protection of civilians in conflict.
As part of the global #NotATarget campaign, the petition
was signed by citizens, celebrities and the humanitarian community and urged world leaders to uphold and
respect international humanitarian law.
Gathering people’s faces through the innovative use of
3D facial recognition technology, the petition allowed
people from all over the world to sign with their face
instead of a signature – a far more powerful statement.
Presented at the UN General Assembly in September, the
petition became an expression of global demand that
civilians, aid workers and medical workers are
#NotATarget. Supported by Canadian Prime Minister
Justin Trudeau, businessman Richard Branson, author
Paulo Coelho, actor Forest Whitaker and others, the
campaign reached millions of people and started more
than 90,000 conversations on social media.

34

2018 also marked the fifteenth anniversary of the tragic
attack on the Canal Hotel in Baghdad, Iraq, which killed
22 people, including the UN Special Representative in
Iraq, Sérgio Vieira de Mello, and wounded more than
100 others. To honour those who lost their lives, OCHA
worked with other UN agencies to create first-hand
accounts, in three languages, of seven of the survivors,
who described what they saw and how the attack irrevocably changed their lives and their work with the UN.
OCHA field and regional offices also worked closely with
humanitarian partners to organize a range of local activities and events, tailored to the priority issues in their
country or community. Activities and events took place
in more than 25 countries and regions across the world.
These events included a press conference on the protection of civilians in Afghanistan, a panel discussion at
the University of Bangui in CAR, a round-table discussion
on protection of civilians and resilience in Chad, a photo
exhibit featuring humanitarians in Lebanon, and promotion of the #NotATarget campaign on social media in
countries such as Colombia, Iraq and Myanmar.

for 2019, taking into account constraints
in the oPt and the fact that humanitarian
needs outweigh resources and humanitarian
capabilities.

devastation after a
residential multistory building was
targeted in the

OCHA oPt has a total of 60 staff (10 international, 50 national), with a main office in Jerusalem and four sub-offices in Gaza, Hebron,
Nablus and Ramallah. The Gaza sub-office
is OCHA’s largest in the oPt and is led by a
senior Humanitarian Affairs Officer because
of the dire humanitarian situation and complexities regarding humanitarian action in
the territory. OCHA’s three sub-offices in
the West Bank are entirely nationalized and
In contrast to the oPt HF’s record income, ensure capacity to cover the complex, preswith needs rising humanitarian actors faced sured and deteriorating situation.
record-low funding in 2018, mainly due to
the withdrawal of contributions from a major donor. This trend is expected to continue Syria
in 2019, as donors indicate that current funding levels are likely to remain unchanged. By the end of 2018, an estimated 11.7
Humanitarian actors also faced an increas- million people in Syria remained in need
ingly constrained operational environment. of humanitarian assistance, including 6.2

CERF emergency funding helped support
the response to the most urgent priorities in
Gaza, complemented with the OCHA-managed oPt Humanitarian Fund (oPtHF) reserve allocations in Gaza and the West Bank.
The oPt HF received a record $32 million, 60
per cent above the target, while allocating
$21 million.

OCHA played a key role in facilitating the
prioritization process for the 2019 HRP. The
plan aims to ensure the most effective and
needs-based use of resources, presenting
a more realistic and achievable blueprint

A scene of

city of Gaza in the
occupied Palestinian
territory. Credit:
Muthana El Najjar

million IDPs. Over the course of the year,
the movements of more than 1.6 million
people were recorded and close to 1.4
million displaced people – mostly IDPs –
reportedly returned home spontaneously.

35

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Khaled, a 10-year-old
boy in Homs, Syria, tells
ERC Lowcock that he goes
to school because he loves
it. Khaled and his family
were displaced from
Palmyra in 2017.

Credit: OCHA/Ghalia Seifo

36

37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

tion of cross-border assistance in July 2018,
the office continues to grapple with complex humanitarian challenges, including
the large number of refugees who remain
in the country.

An IDP family that
fled Al Hudaydah,
Yemen, in June
when fighting
intensified in their
neighbourhood.

Many of the people returned to heavily damaged homes and infrastructure. While there
was a reduction in violence in many parts of
the country in the second half of 2018, the
impact of hostilities remained a primary
driver of humanitarian needs in the country.

Credit: OCHA/Giles
Clark

ERC Lowcock visited Syria twice in
2018 to push for sustained access to the
people in need.
OCHA’s regional response to the Syria crisis
included the OCHA Syria office, based out
of Damascus with sub-offices in Aleppo,
Homs and Qamishli, and country offices in
Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey. In addition,
from Amman, OCHA managed an office to
support the Regional Humanitarian Coordinator (RHC) for the Syria Crisis. These offices
collectively supported the coordinated and
coherent humanitarian action across Syria
under the framework of the HRP.
OCHA Syria spearheaded discussions on
principled access and protection of civilians in eastern Ghouta, south-western Syria
and other locations that experienced heavy
fighting throughout the year. The operating
environment inside Syria for humanitarian
organizations – and for OCHA in particular –
remained challenging in 2018. Between July
and August, OCHA’s footprint was temporarily reduced due to the non-renewal of visas
for international personnel. Nonetheless,
OCHA played a key role in discussions on

38

more systematically understanding and
monitoring the quality of humanitarian
access in Syria.
OCHA’s office in Gaziantep, Turkey continued to play a critical role in enabling
cross-border humanitarian response in
north-western Syria in 2018, as needs in
the area deepened. OCHA Turkey coordinated both UN and NGO assistance, with
the latter estimated to represent some 80
per cent of the overall cross-border response.
OCHA Turkey conducted extensive training
of partners on various aspects of humanitarian action and outreach with non-State
armed groups to expand humanitarian
access. Thirty-one armed groups signed a
“Declaration of Commitment” and “Joint
Operating Principles” on engagement with
humanitarian actors. Individual access incidents were taken up directly with armed
groups as needed.
OCHA’s Syria RHC office in Amman continued to provide support to the Syria operations, providing effective information
management for the crisis and ensuring a
strong evidence base for the needs analysis
and response plan.
Throughout the first half of 2018, OCHA Jordan facilitated cross-border delivery of aid
for 750,000 people in need in south-western
Syria and coordinated strategic programming in southern Syria. Despite the cessa-

OCHA’s offices in Syria, Turkey, Jordan, and
Lebanon also played a key role in donor engagement and resource mobilization efforts,
resulting in nearly $2.2 billion being raised
against the 2018 HRP. Just under $37 million
was allocated through the Syria Humanitarian Fund, for projects benefiting more than
2.6 million people across Syria, implemented by national and international NGOs, the
Syrian Arab Red Crescent and UN agencies.
The Turkey Humanitarian Fund received
more than $118 million in 2018, making the
fund the second largest globally, with more
than half of allocations going to national
NGOs. The Jordan Humanitarian Fund allocated $10 million to 26 projects and the
Lebanon Humanitarian fund allocated $15
million to 32 projects.
OCHA’s Syria regional presence in 2018 included 63 staff in Syria (11 international, 52
national), 50 staff in Turkey (13 international,
37 national), 16 staff with OCHA Jordan (6
international, 10 national), 17 staff in Lebanon (5 international, 12 national) and 23 staff
with the OCHA Syria RHC office (8 international, 15 national) in Amman.
Yemen
More than three years since conflict
escalated, Yemeni people continued
to bear the brunt of hostilities and
associated severe economic decline.
In 2018, 22.2 million people – or 75
per cent of the population – required
humanitarian or protection assistance.

Throughout 2018, OCHA Yemen increased
its support for expanding relief efforts
across the country, including stronger needs
analysis and response planning through the
humanitarian programme cycle, strength-

ened engagement on access and expanded
field presence.
Working with 9 UN agencies, about 160
national NGOs and 35 international NGOs,
OCHA coordinated assistance to nearly 8
million people across the country every
month – about 1 million more people than
the 2017 caseload. Throughout the year, this
expansion was bolstered through improved
data collection at the district level, better
analysis of people’s needs, prioritized response planning, thorough reporting, and
generous and flexible funding.
Despite these accomplishments, the operating environment remained extremely challenging, largely due to bureaucratic impediments and fighting among warring parties.
OCHA played a pivotal role in supporting
partners to catalogue, analyse and overcome operational challenges, as well as in
ensuring that the deconfliction system remained robust.
ERC Lowcock travelled to Yemen in November to amplify advocacy for the crisis. Describing the suffering that he had witnessed
during his mission, he said:
“In Aden, I met emaciated children so malnourished they could barely open their eyes.
Humanitarian assistance helps many of these
children recover. But I also heard heart-breakThe Yemen
ing stories of children relapsing again and
Humanitarian
again because their families simply can’t
Fund allocated
afford food or proper medical care.”

$192 million out
of a total pool of
$208.7 million
to HCT-endorsed
priorities,
OCHA-managed humanitarian financing making it the
instruments directed substantial funding world’s largest
to the most urgent priorities. The Yemen country-based
Humanitarian Fund allocated $192 mil- pooled fund.

The ERC also visited Saudi Arabia and the
Gulf countries for discussions on how to
reduce the suffering in Yemen.

lion out of a total pool of $208.7 million
to HCT-endorsed priorities, making it the
world’s largest country-based pooled fund.
In 2018, CERF gave its largest grant ever to

39

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

An OCHA staff

CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN,

member with a

AFGHANISTAN, LATIN AMERICA AND

woman and child

THE CARIBBEAN, AND UKRAINE

at the Al Sha’ab

Regional Office for Latin America and the
Caribbean (ROLAC)

collective centre for
internally displaced
persons in Aden,

The year was marked by unique
challenges for humanitarian work in
Latin America and the Caribbean, with
humanitarian actors having to deal
with migration issues in addition to the
impact of natural hazards.

Yemen. The photo
was taken while
a Field Medical
Foundation mobile
clinic was visiting
the centre. Credit:
OCHA/Matteo
Minasi

additional 20 staff (8 national, 12 international) were working from support offices
in Amman, Jordan, providing information
In 2018, OCHA Yemen had 77 posts (52 na- management, communications and donor
tional, 25 international) in-country based in liaison services, and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia,
five hubs: Aden, Hudaydah, Ibb, Sa’ada and continuing to support the deconfliction
Sana’a. OCHA was also able to maintain a liaison team.
robust field presence at the senior level. An

a single operation ($49.9 million) to ensure
vital support services.

Deconfliction mechanism
helps aid delivery to
millions in Yemen
Since 2015, OCHA has managed a humanitarian notification – or “humanitarian deconfliction” – system in Yemen to prevent the aid
operation from suffering any accidental or
incidental harm.
As part of the process, OCHA shares information on humanitarian locations, activities,
movements and personnel with the Coalition
fighting in Yemen on behalf of the country’s
internationally recognized Government.
Information on locations of critical civilian
infrastructure such as schools, health facilities and water networks is also available.
Sharing this information helps to promote the
safety and security of humanitarian personnel
and operations.

40

The information is provided without prejudice
for the responsibility of upholding international humanitarian law, which lies solely with the
parties to the conflict.
The humanitarian notification system for
deconfliction has been a critical enabler of
the humanitarian operation since the escalation of conflict four years ago. In 2018, more
than 11,000 aid distributions, assessments
and other movements were processed
through the system. The system contains
data on more than 20,000 fixed locations
of humanitarian sites or critical civilian
infrastructure.

The economic and political crisis in Venezuela led to a deterioration of living conditions
and increased vulnerability in the country.
ROLAC worked closely with partners in Venezuela to develop a common understanding
of how to respond to a humanitarian crisis,
which meant addressing immediate needs
and developing a vulnerability analysis. ROLAC also supported the drafting of a strategy
to support the scale-up of the UN response
in Venezuela.
With 3.3 million Venezuelan migrants and
refugees across the region by year-end,
ROLAC supported the UNHCR-IOM-led Regional Inter-Agency Coordination Platform
for Refugees and Migrants from Venezuela
with information management services. ROLAC also directly supported RCs in Brazil, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela in the elaboration
of CERF proposals to respond to the most
pressing needs of Venezuelans in-country
and on the move.

on three pillars: 1) regional coordination
mechanisms and interoperability between
the Caribbean Disaster and Emergency Management Agency and international humanitarian partners, through joint workshops on
needs assessments, information management and interoperability, and simulation
exercises; 2) strengthened coordination
through RC offices in Jamaica, Barbados
and Belize, with trainings on humanitarian
programme cycle concepts and tools for UN
agencies, NGOs and national disaster management agencies; and 3) development of
33 contingency plans for islands, territories
and the subregional level.
In 2018, ROLAC had 33 staff (25 national, 8
international) in Panama and across eight
HATs in Bolivia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Peru and Venezuela.
Colombia
As hundreds of thousands of migrants
from Venezuela crossed into Colombia
in 2018, OCHA Colombia supported the
humanitarian response. It continued
to highlight the humanitarian needs
of people in many areas left by the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
following the peace agreement in
2016. The office helped to address the
humanitarian needs of at least 4.9 million
people, many of whom hoped for peace
dividends related to the implementation
of the peace agreement.

2018 marked the beginning of a new trend in
the otherwise continued migration and displacement in Central America, as migrants
organized in large groups, known as “caravans”. ROLAC supported leading agencies in
field assessments in Guatemala, Honduras
and Mexico, and by providing information
management services.

Despite maintaining a physical presence
in only 2 of 12 Local Coordination Teams,
OCHA Colombia was able to support this
coordination model and further linkages
between humanitarian, development and
peacebuilding actors. Both groups of vulnerable people in Colombia, those affected by the conflict and the more than 1.17
In the Caribbean, ROLAC engaged in exten- million Venezuelans in Colombia, have
sive operational readiness and preparedness similar needs.
work with partners to enable stronger responses to hurricanes. This work centred

41

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Following the creation of the Inter-Agency Group on Mixed Migration Flows led by
UNHCR and IOM, OCHA proposed a backto-back strategy to avoid any potential
duplication of coordination efforts within
the existing humanitarian architecture.
The 2018 Colombia Humanitarian Strategic Plan appealed for $157 million and has
a target of 1 million people. In response to
a Government request to assist with the
Venezuela outflow, the plan was amended
in April 2018 by an additional $102 million
to assist 500,000 additional persons who
crossed into the country from Venezuela and
related host communities. Less than 50 per
cent of funds were received. Funding against
the addendum also included a $5.9 million
CERF allocation in 2018 to UN partners in
Colombia to help the Venezuela outflow.
ERC Lowock with
Gabo Ivon (left), of
the grass-roots
organization
Fondation Haïtienne
de Réhabilitation
(FONHARE) in
Ouanaminthe,
Haiti. Gabo, 39, is
a former carpenter
and welder. Dr. Ivens
Louius (centre)
founded FONHARE
in 2011. Credit:
OCHA/Nadia Todres

the 2018 HRP. An earthquake in the
north of Haiti in October and periods of
drought in several regions of the country
aggravated the situation. With food
prices rising, persistent inflation, and
the devaluation of the national currency,
people became more vulnerable and
increasingly struggled to access food.

In addition to having supported response
efforts in the food security sector, OCHA
Haiti and partners supported the Directorate of Civil Protection (DPC) in preparing
for the hurricane season, which mostly
spared Haiti in 2018. OCHA Haiti conducted
trainings, including the Multi-Sector Initial Rapid Assessment (MIRA) training for
trainers for more than 70 participants. It
also organized the first in-country On-Site
OCHA Colombia had 22 staff (2 international, Operations Coordination Centre-UNDAC
20 national) in Bogota and two sub-offices training for national counterparts with the
in Quibdo and Cucuta. Starting in May 2018, support of UNDAC members. In addition,
11 additional staff were hired to support the OCHA Haiti supported the annual national
mixed migration flows emergency, working simulation exercise led by DPC.
in the Cucuta office and two additional field
offices that opened in Arauca and Riohacha. OCHA Haiti worked closely with a Protection Standby Capacity Project expert and
the protection sector to ensure a humaniHaiti
tarian perspective in the National Protection
Strategy, which was initiated by the HCT and
Of the 2.8 million people in need of
later endorsed by the Office for the Protection of Citizens.
humanitarian assistance in Haiti in 2018,
some 2.2 million were targeted through

With the 2018 HRP largely underfunded (only 13 per cent of the $252.2 million
required had been received by the end of
the year), OCHA Haiti supported the development of proposals to CERF, which allocated $8.9 million from its Underfunded
Emergencies window and $3 million from
its Rapid Response window following the
earthquake in October 2018.
With 19 staff (4 international, 13 national,
2 international United Nations Volunteers
(UNVs), OCHA Haiti supported the humanitarian response and preparedness through
its Port-au-Prince office and with regular
field visits to affected regions.

42

Afghanistan
With some 6 million people in need of
life-saving assistance at the end of
2018, OCHA Afghanistan supported a
significant scaling up of relief efforts
across the country. Working with more
than 160 humanitarian partners, OCHA
helped to coordinate assistance to more
than 4.1 million people in 2018, including
3.5 million drought-affected people in the
fourth quarter alone.

bility to affected people primarily through
participation in needs assessments. Community Engagement Working Groups were
established at both the national and subnational levels, as was the country’s first
inter-agency call centre.

This growing humanitarian response came
amid a backdrop of intensified fighting between Government and non-State armed
groups, a significant drought in northern
and western Afghanistan and growing bureaucratic impediments. OCHA supported
partners to catalogue, analyse and unblock
these challenges through direct advocacy
ERC Lowcock, along with the UN High Com- and negotiations.
missioner for Refugees, Filippo Grandi, visited the country in September, calling for in- The Afghanistan Humanitarian Fund allocreased and sustained humanitarian support cated $64.1 million to HCT-endorsed hufor humanitarian response to the drought. manitarian activities. Fund contributions
accounted for 8 per cent of overall HRP
A dynamic and rigorous approach to needs requirements. In addition, OCHA faciliidentification led to two revisions of the tated a $12 million CERF allocation to reHRP in 2018, supported by periodic moni- spond to drought.
toring of results.
With 81 staff (16 international, 65 national),
OCHA supported clusters in integrating OCHA Afghanistan has a head office in Kabul,
gender and protection concerns across the and sub-offices in Hirat, Jalalabad, Kandahar
response, and in strengthening accounta- and Mazar. A sub-office in Kunduz and two

Herat in Afghanistan
was one of two
provinces most
affected by a
drought that gripped
two thirds of the
country.
Credit: OCHA/Toma
Dursina

43

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

satellite offices in Faizabad and Maimana itation. Operationally, OCHA continued to
will reopen in 2019 as part of a planned ex- coordinate the clusters in Peshawar; chair
pansion in OCHA’s geographical footprint. the Humanitarian Access Working Group,
Information Management Working Group,
Inter-Cluster Coordination Mechanism
Pakistan
and Humanitarian Response Team; and
facilitate the HCT in Islamabad. OCHA also
In 2018, OCHA continued to support
continued to perform as the secretariat for
the Cash Working Group.
the humanitarian community, enabling
a coordinated, timely and principled
humanitarian response that targets the
most vulnerable IDPs and returnees
of the Tribal Districts. Although the
majority of the displaced population
has returned to their areas of origin,
humanitarian needs remain in return
areas. OCHA continued to address these
needs through facilitating assessments,
administering pooled funds, producing
analytical information products, and
supporting the implementation of the
Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Tribal Districts
Transition Plan 2018-2020. OCHA
supported the Transition Task Force in
developing a detailed plan for transition
from humanitarian to development
programming in the Tribal Districts.

In addition, an estimated 5 million people
were affected by a drought in 26 districts
of Balochistan and Sindh. The severity of
the situation became evident in the closing
months of 2018 following several assessments and requests from the Government
of Pakistan for support. The Government
led the response to drought with localized
and targeted support from the HCT, which
is expected to continue throughout 2019.
OCHA also supported the National Disaster Management Agency in the development of cash programming guidelines,
MIRA trainings and simulation exercises.
The 2018 Emergency Response Preparedness Plan was developed in collaboration
with the HCT. OCHA’s support to Punjab’s
emergency response services (Rescue 1122)
continued in 2018 with training assistance
and preparations for international accred-

44

OCHA Pakistan had 30 staff (5 international,
25 national) during 2018, based in Islamabad
and with a sub-office in Peshawar.
Ukraine
The human toll of the active five-yearlong armed conflict in eastern Ukraine
remained critical, with 4.4 million
people affected, of whom 3.4 million
required humanitarian assistance and
protection in 2018.

In 2018, OCHA worked with more than 130
partners to coordinate the humanitarian response, reaching some 1.3 million conflict-affected people on both sides of the “contact
line” in Government-controlled areas and
non-Government-controlled areas (NGCAs).

needs of and use by local authorities of conflict-affected regions.
OCHA also played a catalytic role in driving
the HCT’s efforts to link humanitarian and
development work. OCHA co-led the HCT
Working Groups on the Humanitarian-Development Nexus (HDN) and Protracted Displacement that detailed the strategic and
operational vision. In March, OCHA organized the first HDN workshop to develop and
agree on three collective outcomes, including for the first multi-year humanitarian
response strategy in Ukraine for 2019-2020.
OCHA Ukraine also organized a series of
workshops on protracted displacement with
the Government-approved IDP Strategy as
its centrepiece for the inclusion of IDPs in
national and regional programming.

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Regional Office for Asia and the
Pacific (ROAP)
Asia and the Pacific is the world’s most
disaster-prone region. In the past five
years, some 675 million people across
the region were affected by disasters,
with 41,000 deaths. The region is host
to one quarter of the world’s conflicts
and several protracted crises, with 3.2
million refugees and the world’s biggest
refugee settlement in Cox’s Bazar,
Bangladesh. Millions of people across the
region continued to require assistance
and protection.

A resident of
Mamboro, a fishing
village in Central
Sulawesi Province,
Indonesia, stands
on rubble. The
province was hit
by a 7.4 magnitude
earthquake in

As of December 2018, 37 staff (10 international, 27 national) supported the response
through a national office in Kyiv and subnational offices in Kramatorsk, Sieveredonetsk
(in GCAs), Donetsk and Luhansk (in NGCAs).

In 2018, ROAP responded to new emergencies in Indonesia, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines
and Tonga, and deployed to protracted crises
in Bangladesh and the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea (DPRK). Including out-ofregion surge, ROAP deployed 23 staff for a
total of 731 staff days.

September, which
triggered a tsunami,
landslides and
liquefaction,
affecting 1.5 million
people.
Credit: OCHA/
Anthony Burke

In May, humanitarian access for UN humanitarian agencies in NGCAs opened following
extensive dialogue and demonstration of
being a principled humanitarian actor. These
developments triggered a CERF request and
allocation of $5.9 million, to scale up the
delivery of emergency humanitarian and
protection assistance to meet urgent needs
targeting NGCAs. The delivery of humanitarian assistance to people residing in hard-toreach areas was largely possible due to the
OCHA-facilitated CMCoord function and
a well-established deconfliction/notification mechanism.
To ensure minimum emergency response
preparedness, OCHA facilitated the development of inter-agency rapid assessment
procedures and tools as well as training
materials, which have been adapted to the

45

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

In 2018, Indonesia’s Central Sulawesi Province was hit by a 7.4 magnitude earthquake,
which triggered a tsunami, landslides and
liquefaction and affected 1.5 million people. ERC Lowcock released some $15 million
from CERF to help scale up the Government’s
response. To raise awareness and offer solidarity to the Government and people of
Indonesia, the ERC accompanied United
Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
and World Bank Chief Executive Officer Kristalina Georgieva to the affected area.

staff of the RC’s office, attended by representatives of 18 countries, to support better
understanding of principled humanitarian
action and emergency preparedness and
response tools.

ROAP continued to prioritize operational
partnerships through its extensive work on
CMCoord, which included work on the 4th
Regional Consultative Group on Humanitarian Civil-Military Coordination and
multiple Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Response exercises. Localization and
The ERC undertook a mission to the DPRK in support to national NGOs and civil society
July to advocate for the “largely overlooked” was also a priority, with OCHA partnering
humanitarian crisis that has taken hold in with the International Council of Voluntary
the country. The UN had assessed that in the Agencies and the Asian Disaster Reduction
DPRK, more than 10 million people – or 40 and Response Network to hold Humanitarper cent of the population – were in need of ian Partnership Week in December.
humanitarian assistance.
In 2018, OCHA ROAP had 21 staff based in
ROAP continued to support emergency pre- Bangkok (14 international, 7 national) and
paredness using the Rapid Response Ap- 6 staff based in HATs in DPRK, Indoneproach to Natural Disasters in Asia-Pacific sia and Japan.
(RAPID Approach) – a regionally contextualized version of the global IASC guidance
on the Humanitarian Programme Cycle Myanmar
and Emergency Response Preparedness
approach, which OCHA developed and has OCHA’s continued presence in Kachin,
been implementing since 2016.
northern Shan and Rakhine states further
enhanced field-based coordination

ROAP provided support on contingency
mechanisms throughout the year.
planning, simulation exercises, capacity assessments and other exercises in 12 countries.
ROAP conducted its training workshop for

In 2018, the Myanmar Humanitarian Fund
approved 37 projects to 26 partners, targeting more than 730,000 crisis-affected people
(53 per cent women and girls; 44 per cent
children under 18). About 40 per cent of the
funds were transferred to local and national
NGO partners. OCHA facilitated three allocations through the fund amounting to $12.8
million and two CERF rapid response grants
amounting to $7.2 million. The funds were
disbursed to humanitarian partners to support crisis-affected people in Chin, Kachin,
Rakhine and Shan, as well as flood-affected
people in south-eastern Myanmar.
With endorsement from the HCT, the 2019
Myanmar HNO and HRP were released in
December 2018. The HNO/HRP not only improved a common understanding of needs
and response priorities, but also served
as a strategic guide for planning and decision-making. In parallel, in support of
Government-led disaster preparedness and
response, the Emergency Response Preparedness plan was regularly updated, implemented and tested through simulation exercises in Nay Pyi Taw, Rakhine and Yangon.
In 2018, OCHA Myanmar had a total of 57
staff (11 international, 46 national) across its
main office in Yangon, a liaison unit in Nay
Pyi Taw and sub-offices in Kachin, northern
Shan and Rakhine.
Office of the Pacific

A Rakhine woman
with her daughter in
a resettlement site
in Sittwe Township
of Rakhine State,
Myanmar.
Credit: OCHA/Htet
Htet Oo

In 2018, OCHA’s Office of the Pacific
focused on supporting the RCs in Fiji
and Samoa, who cover 14 Pacific Island
countries (Cook Islands, Federated States
of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall
Islands, Nauru, Niue, Palau, Samoa,
Solomon Islands, Tokelau, Tonga, Tuvalu
and Vanuatu).

complementarity of response capabilities
of key partners.
The office also played a key role coordinating
Pacific Humanitarian Team (PHT) efforts
and responded to multiple natural disasters, including volcanic eruptions in Vanuatu, and responses to Tropical Cyclones Gita,
Keni and Josie. Through deployment of its
information management officers during
emergencies, OCHA was instrumental in
providing timely information to the PHT
and partners. All deployments and support
provided was at the request of the Governments of the Pacific Islands.
Through an Australian-funded position
with UNDP, which is managed by OCHA in
the Solomon Islands, OCHA supported the
National Disaster Management Office. In
partnership with the World Bank’s Global
Financial Development Database project,
OCHA continued to support consultation for
the revision of the Solomon Islands National
Disaster Management Plan, which was endorsed in February 2018.
Jointly with the Government of Fiji and
international NGO RedR Australia, OCHA
co-hosted the first Regional Information
Management Workshop for the Pacific,
which was also supported by regional organizations and PHT partners. Information
management specialists from 10 countries
attended the workshop.
The Cook Islands Country Preparedness
Package (CPP) was launched, and the Solomon Islands and Tuvalu CPPs should be
launched in 2019, subject to Government
endorsement. A country’s CPP shows steps
taken to ensure that minimum preparedness actions have been put in place and is
intended to strengthen preparedness and
collaboration between national and international actors in response to a natural disaster response.

The office ensured that responses continued to be context-specific, tailored and In partnership with RedR, OCHA supported
demand-driven, and capitalized on the the development of the National Operational
Arrangements for the Emergency Operations

46

47

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Schoolgirls with
thanaka, a yellowishwhite cosmetic paste
made from ground
bark on their faces, in
a school built with
the support of the
Government of Canada
through the Myanmar
Humanitarian Fund,
a country-based pool
fund, in Thet Kae Pyin
Ywa Ma village on
the outskirts of Sittwe
Township, Rakhine
State, Myanmar.

Credit: OCHA/Htet Htet Oo

48

49

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Digital platforms
Centre in the Solomon Islands. The National OCHA led the planning and execution of the
Operational Arrangements are like SOPs for HCT Metro Manila earthquake contingency
the national Emergency Operations Centre. plan. It also played a key role in supporting
the Government’s hosting of the Asia-Pacific
OCHA engaged with donors, including regional International Search and Rescue
FRANZ partners (France, Australia and New Advisory Group (INSARAG) exercise. PreZealand) on approaches in humanitarian paredness for catastrophic earthquake and
response, and strengthened its relationship hydro-meteorological events was further
with regional partners and the Council of enhanced by findings from pre-crisis comRegional Organisations in the Pacific to di- munity surveys conducted by the Commuversify advocacy.
nity of Practice on Community Engagement,
led by OCHA. OCHA Philippines increased its
Based in Suva, Fiji, the OCHA Office of the engagement with national NGOs and civil
Pacific had five staff (three international, two society organizations, which led to two nanational) and two UNVs during 2018.
tional NGO networks joining the HCT. More
interactions with the private sector led to
the sector participating in joint needs asPhilippines
sessments. These efforts resulted in a more
coherent coordination of humanitarian
The Philippines continued to rank third in
assistance and stronger partnerships with
national and local humanitarian actors.
the World Risk Index because of its high

Deputy ERC Mueller
with internally
displaced persons
at the Sarimanok
temporary shelter
in Marawi City. Ms.
Mueller visited
Mindanao in October
2018. Credit: OCHA/
Ramil Maquilan

exposure and susceptibility to natural
hazards and relatively low coping and
adaptive capacities. At the same time,
decades of conflict, clan feuds and
political violence in Mindanao have led to
the repeated displacement of vulnerable
people. In 2018, OCHA coordinated
international humanitarian assistance
to 200,000 people who remained
displaced by the 2017 Marawi conflict
and 165,000 people affected by typhoons
in northern Luzon.

2017

2017

2018

2018

Protection matters remained a priority of
the HC and the HCT, exemplified by the
adoption of a protection strategy for Mindanao. It also led to more attention on the
work and plans of the HCT working groups
on Protection from Sexual Exploitation and
Abuse and Gender in Humanitarian Action.
OCHA supported these activities both at the
national and subnational levels.
OCHA managed $5 million from the CERF
Underfunded Emergencies window targeting 85,000 people affected by the Marawi
conflict with food security and agriculture,
protection, health, nutrition and livelihood support.

NUMBER OF
HUMANITARIAN
WORKERS REGISTERED

34%
INCREASE

In 2018, OCHA Philippines had 24 staff (3
international, 20 national, 1 UNV) based
in Metro Manila, Cotabato City and Iligan
City in Mindanao.

686k
2017 2018

59k
2017

50

1.7M

9M

2018

29
2017

2018

51

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

OCHA’s role in the Inter-Agency
Standing Committee
The IASC secretariat facilitated the adoption
of the Humanitarian System-Wide ScaleUp protocols, which provide guidance on
the required capacities and resources to
effectively respond to a sudden-onset, or
significantly deteriorating humanitarian
crisis, where the capacity to lead, coordinate
and deliver assistance and protection does
In 2018, the IASC initiated structural re- not match the scale, complexity or urgency
forms to improve its effectiveness, mak- of the crisis.
ing it more nimble, and more results-and
field-oriented. The IASC secretariat worked It also supported efforts to produce the Inon implementing the IASC workplan for ter-Agency Standard Operating Procedures
2019-2020, which prioritizes (a) transform- for Early Action to El Niño/La Niña Episodes
ing coordination for a more context-specific that provided early warning, early action and
humanitarian response; (b) emphasizing readiness analysis and early action recommore evidence-based situational analysis; mendations to country contexts.
and (c) fostering an innovative humanitarian financing system that meets the needs
of crisis-affected people.

The IASC is the global humanitarian
coordination forum that brings together
the Heads of UN, NGO, and Red Cross/
Red Crescent movement entities. The
IASC is chaired by the head of OCHA, the
Emergency Relief Coordinator (ERC).

Ensuring that aid is
gender-balanced
Humanitarian crises affect women, girls, boys and men
of all ages differently. As a result, their needs and coping
strategies differ.
Humanitarian assistance is effective during a crisis if
response plans ensure that the particular needs of women, girls, boys and men are equitably addressed. Women,
who play a key role in the survival of their families, must
be included in decision-making about the forms of assistance and protection they need.
To ensure that all UN and non-UN humanitarian actors
have a common approach on this issue, in late 2017,
the IASC endorsed the new IASC Policy on Gender
Equality and the Empowerment of Women and Girls in
Humanitarian Action. The updated policy, which was
implemented in 2018, was the result of a comprehensive
consultation process led by the IASC’s Gender Reference
Group. Accompanying the policy is an Accountability
Framework, which was developed to capture, monitor,
measure and provide guidance on the performance of
IASC bodies and field representation on the policy.

52

Gender handbook updated
The IASC Gender Handbook for Humanitarian Action
was updated in 2018 to reflect the new Gender Equality
and the Empowerment of Women and Girls in Humanitarian Action Policy.
The updated handbook provides
practical guidance for front-line
humanitarian workers to mainstream gender equality into humanitarian action across sectors.
The tool is also available online in
English, French, Spanish and Arabic, and can be accessed at www.
gihahandbook.org.

Updated Gender Age Marker
In 2015, IASC had launched the IASC Gender Marker, a
tool that codes, on a 0-2 scale, whether a humanitarian
project is designed to effectively respond to the different
needs of men, women, girls and boys within an affected
population. In 2018, the tool was replaced with the Gender with Age Marker (GAM). The IASC GAM codes pro-

grammes and projects on a 0-4 scale, based on responses to questions about 12 key gender-equality measures.
GAM is much more than a gender marker with an easyto-use format for analysing standardized information,
coordinating responses, and reporting on improvements.

Protection from sexual
exploitation and abuse
Sexual exploitation and abuse are grave violations of
our responsibility to do no harm and to protect people
affected by crises.
In May 2018, the IASC, chaired by the ERC, committed
to a vision in which people caught up in crises feel safe
and respected and can access the assistance they
need without fear of exploitation, abuse or harassment
by any aid worker. The UNICEF Executive Director was
designated the IASC Champion on Protection from SEA
and Sexual Harassment, to be followed by the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees.
OCHA will support the IASC Champions in implementing
a strategy to address three main objectives: encouraging
victims to come forward and speak up; improving quality,
survivor-centred support and protection; and strengthened vetting, reference-checking investigation processes
and disciplinary measures.
The IASC also established a $1 million fund, managed by
OCHA, to provide rapid grants to humanitarian entities
to support investigations into SEA and sexual harassment allegations. In November 2018, OCHA and the UN
System Chief Executives Board Task Force convened
a meeting of the heads of their investigatory bodies
to ensure effective, efficient, timely and victim-centred
approaches to investigations.
Internally, OCHA has designated a Senior Coordinator
to bring together an internal Task Team to coordinate a
“whole of OCHA” approach to preventing, protecting from,
and responding to sexual exploitation and abuse.

Persons with disabilities
In 2018, the global political momentum for the inclusion
and acceptance of traditionally marginalized people
continued to grow. In the humanitarian sector, work
carried on to make emergency response inclusive of
persons with disabilities. Experiences from the field
during an emergency have shown that persons with disabilities and their specific needs are too often neglected
in the contingency planning, assessment, design and
delivery of humanitarian relief.
To boost ongoing efforts during the Global Disability
Summit in London in July 2018, ERC Lowcock committed to make humanitarian coordination tools inclusive by 2020.
Consequently, CBPFs began capturing data on people
with disabilities in January 2019.
In 2018, most HNOs included some qualitative reference
to persons with disabilities, but more work including
training is needed to gather reliable disaggregated disability data, and to analyse the factors that heighten risks
for persons with disabilities during crises.
The first inter-agency guidelines on how to take into
account persons with disabilities in humanitarian action
will be released in mid-2019. The IASC Task Team held
several regional consultations during 2018 that included
organizations of persons with disabilities in 2018 for the
preparation of the guidelines.
The guidelines will provide essential direction for humanitarian actors, Governments and affected communities
to define and respond to the specific needs of persons
with disabilities in crises.
In June 2018, the UN Secretary-General initiated a
system-wide policy and accountability framework to
strengthen accessibility and mainstreaming of the
rights of persons with disabilities throughout the
UN’s operations.
OCHA is working with other UN partners on the design
of this new policy and framework.

53

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

“Militias burned down
everything around:
houses, fields ... I was
terrified as I was seeing

Humanitarian financing
OCHA continued to work with several
financing instruments, mechanisms
and partners to ensure that growing
humanitarian needs are met.

everybody run but I could
not... Living conditions
here are difficult. Our
bathroom and kitchen
are communal facilities.
I wish we could go home
but all is burned down;
there is nothing left.”
Hawa Ramadan, 42, in the Al
Sayyad camp for the internally
displaced in Tripoli, Libya. Hawa
was born with a disability. She
and her family were displaced
from Tawergha by the 2011
uprising in Libya. Credit: OCHA/
Eve Sabbagh

In 2018, OCHA established the
Humanitarian Financing and Resource
Mobilization Division which, at the global
level, combines the task of raising funds
for crises and managing humanitarian
pooled funds with that of exploring how
innovative financing can better fund
humanitarian response.

A major role for OCHA is to mobilize funding
for all organizations who coordinate their
humanitarian plans. At the country level,
OCHA helps partners build common strategies and programmes to help people affected
by a crisis. Those strategies and programmes
form the basis of a HRP, which facilitates
resource mobilization and donor allocations
as the plans are based on a commonly agreed,
thorough, needs assessment and programmatic prioritization. OCHA also uses the
HRP as the basis for monitoring and tracking
the humanitarian assistance delivered to
affected populations compared to targets set
out in the plan. An HRP facilitates resource
mobilization and donor allocations as the
plans is based on a commonly agreed, thorough, needs assessment and programmatic
prioritization.
At a global level, all country specific HRPs
are summarized in a single document, the
“Global Humanitarian Overview”, which is
launched every year in December.

Yemen ($2.01 billion); Nigeria and the Lake
Chad region ($2.13 billion, pledged, including
$985.5 million for humanitarian response
in 2018 and $1.08 billion for development,
resilience and stabilization activities in 2018
and beyond); the Democratic Republic of the
Congo ($528.1 million); and Somalia ($353.9
million). Pledge fulfilment has surpassed 95
per cent. In addition to mobilizing financial resources, high-level operational and
policy discussions, including with broad
segments of civil society, took place during
these events.
Another service provided by OCHA is the
tracking and on-line publication of the
level of funding provided by donors to humanitarian crises worldwide. By making
this information readily available on-line,
OCHA helps donors to better understand
where funding is needed and to make better allocation decisions. OCHA’s Financial
Tracking Service (FTS) records all reported
humanitarian contributions (cash, in-kind,
multilateral and bilateral) to emergencies.
FTS provides daily updated data, increases
the transparency and accountability of humanitarian action, and informs real-time
decision-making at both national and global

Ways to improve
humanitarian financing
In March 2018, the USG and ERC, Mark Lowcock, delivered a
lecture titled “A Collective Call towards Innovation in Humanitarian
Financing.” The speech was part of the Casement lecture series, in
memory of Roger Casement, an Irish humanitarian activist.
Lowcock highlighted ways to improve humanitarian financing:

At the beginning of 2018, $23.18 billion was
needed to help 137 million people in 26 coun- 1.	Adopt an anticipatory approach to plan and mobilize the response to a crisis in advance.
tries. By the end of the year, the amount
needed was revised to $25billion for more
than 133 million people in 41 countries. To 2.	Make much greater use of disaster risk insurance. OCHA estimated that 20-30 per cent of the needs identified in the Global
help aid organizations receive the funds they
Humanitarian Overview for 2018 could in principle have been
need to provide assistance, OCHA co-hosted
met through insurance.
in 2018 five pledging and resource mobilization events for Syria and the region ($4.4
billion pledged for 2018 and multi-year 3.	Make more use of pre-agreed, contingency financing windows by
the multilateral system. Doing so cuts response time and costs.
pledges for $3.4 billion for 2018 and beyond);

54

55

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

levels. In 2018, FTS improved its features, in
particular those relevant to the collection
and analysis of data related to Grand Bargain
commitments on earmarking, multi-year
and localization.
Finally, OCHA also manages CERF, which
can cover emergencies anywhere in the
world, and 17 CBPFs, which cover crises in
specific countries. OCHA uses these pooled
funds to foster more responsive, predictable
and strategic humanitarian financing. CERF
and CBPFs are designed to complement other
humanitarian funding sources, such as bilateral contributions, and although they can
be used independently, they work in synergy
as complementary tools at the country level.
Because they are fast (decisions can be made
in hours) and allocation strategies are decided by humanitarian leaders on the ground,
CERF and CBPF-financed activities support
the most appropriate project at a given time,
especially given often fast changing contexts.
In 2018, donors channeled a record more
than $1.5 billion through the funds to help
deliver a stronger collective response, covering critical gaps and ensuring maximum
impact of limited resources.
CENTRAL EMERGENCY RESPONSE FUND

CERF is one of the fastest and most effective
ways to enable urgent life-saving humanitarian action for people affected by crises
anywhere in the world. CERF pools contributions from donors around the world
into a single fund, allowing humanitarian
responders to deliver life-saving assistance
whenever and wherever crises hit. CERF
has a $1 billion annual fundraising target,
and funding is fully unearmarked to ensure
that it can meet the most urgent, life-saving
needs anywhere, anytime.
In 2018, CERF received over the year a record $558.6 million, enabling the fund to

allocate $500.5 million, the highest amount
in its history, to humanitarian operations
in 48 countries and territories (including
6 countries that benefited from a regional
CERF allocation). Of this, $320.8 million was
allocated from the Rapid Response window
to scale up or kick-start urgent humanitarian
aid, while another $179.7 million was allocated from the Underfunded Emergencies
window to sustain operations in protracted
and underfunded emergencies.
During emergencies, humanitarian organizations on the ground jointly assess and
prioritize needs and apply for CERF grants.
Funds are immediately released if proposals
meet CERF’s criteria, i.e., the needs are urgent
and the proposed activities will save lives.
COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS

CBPFs fund humanitarian partners having
ongoing operations in countries affected by
natural disasters and conflict. They allow
donors to pool their contributions into single, unearmarked funds to support national
humanitarian efforts for a specific country.
In 2018, 17 pooled funds received a record
$950 million in contributions from 34 donors.
Funds are allocated through an inclusive and
transparent process in support of priorities
set out in crisis-specific HRPs. This ensures
that funding is prioritized in-country by
decision-makers closest to people in need.
Funds are directly available to national and
international NGOs, UN agencies and Red
Cross/Red Crescent organizations. In 2018,
CBPFs allocated almost $836 million to
685 partners in 17 countries to support 454
life-saving humanitarian projects targeting millions of people with health care, food
aid, clean water, shelter and other life-saving assistance.

ALLOCATIONS BY COUNTRY AND FUNDING MECHANISM

CBPF

CERF
Rapid Response

Yemen
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Ethiopia
Turkey
Afghanistan
Somalia
Sudan
South Sudan
Nigeria
Central African Republic
occupied Palestinian territory
Syria
Iraq
Uganda
Myanmar
Bangladesh
Chad
Lebanon
Mali
Cameroon
Indonesia
Pakistan
Haiti
Libya
Jordan
Democratic People's Republic of Korea
United Republic of Tanzania
Niger
Venezuela
Papua New Guinea
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Zambia
Venezuela RRMC1
Colombia
Ukraine
Philippines
Eritrea
India
Kenya
Congo
Mauritania
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Zimbabwe
Rwanda
Angola
Peru
Guatemala
Brazil
Ecuador
Djibouti
Madagascar

$188.16M
67.88
84.67
81.71
62.58
52.97
42.49
53.37
36.07
28.39
21.17
36.97
36.59
12.82

$49.91M
30.51
30.29

CERF

CERF
Underfunded
Emergencies

$27.84M

11.94
17.27
20.00
6.87
9.93
16.27

6.10
7.21

16.99
18.00

14.70

16.98
1.13
7.00
5.10
14.43

5.36
3.16
3.65

8.00
9.88
7.99
8.99
8.11

10.37
10.00
10.00
9.39
9.20
9.19
9.02
2.35
6.56
6.20
5.93
5.90

5.00

5.03
4.99
4.98
4.95
3.98
3.98
3.51
3.10
3.00
2.00
1.98
1.56
1.50
1.50
1.20
1.00

1

56

TOTAL

$238.07M
126.23
114.96
81.71
74.52
70.24
62.49
53.37
42.93
38.32
37.44
36.97
36.59
23.09
20.02
18.00
16.98
15.82
15.00
14.98
14.43
13.35
12.14
11.76
10.37
10.00
10.00
9.39
9.20
9.19
9.02
7.35
6.56
6.20
5.93
5.90
5.03
4.99
4.98
4.95
3.98
3.98
3.51
3.10
3.00
2.00
1.98
1.56
1.50
1.50
1.20
1.00

Regional Refugee and Migration Crisis

57

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Making lives better

Making lives better

Ninigeté is a single mother,
raising eight children
on her own. After an
acute drought affected
Burkina Faso and five
other Sahelian countries,
most of her livestock was
severely affected, leaving
her family with little to
eat. Food for the livestock
provided by the UN’s
Food and Agriculture
Organization and funded
by CERF helped the
animals recover. Ninigeté
is seen here with five of her
children in Bibré village,
Sanmatenga Province,
Centre-Nord region,
Burkina Faso.

Credit: OCHA/Eve Sabbagh

58

59

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

Strengthening OCHA

advisory body) from about two dozen mostly headquarters-based officials into a global
Nimble and collaborative
management team of 120 staff of mostly
field-based managers. This has brought
To become more agile in 2018, OCHA restruc- decision-making closer to the field.
tured along its five core functions – advocacy, information management, coordination, In late 2018, OCHA began relocating some
humanitarian financing and policy, as well posts out of headquarters to field locations
as several enabling functions such as com- based on the UN Secretary-General’s guidmunications and administration.
ing principle for UN management reforms
that core services are generally best delivOCHA appointed new functional leads to ered as close to the end-user as possible. For
ensure that the “whole of OCHA” approach example, CMCoord expertise was brought
– across headquarters and field offices – was closer to the frontlines in northern Nigebetter harnessed and inter-connected to ria by posting a coordination division staff
contribute towards our mission to coordi- there, previously located in Headquarters.
nate the global emergency response.
Situational analysis was improved by relocating three headquarter-based posts to
Our internal and external surge mecha- deep field offices in Afghanistan, Cameroon
nisms were reorganized to enable faster and Sudan. These positions provide experand more predictable deployments of both tise at the local level, while at the same
OCHA staff and partners to meet the urgent time support global functions and regionneeds of our field operations in case of a al priorities.
rapid onset disaster.
OCHA, AFTER THE REFORM

STRENGTHENING
OCHA
As humanitarian action continues to transform, OCHA has kept
on evolving for the better. After far-reaching reforms over the
course of 2018, OCHA emerged as a more field-focused and
decentralized entity. To keep up with major technological and
social upheavals in 2018, OCHA launched some ground-breaking tools and policies. The year also marked the launch of
OCHA’s 2018-2021 Strategic Plan, a people-centred strategy
designed to leverage OCHA’s comparative advantage and
reflect the shifting humanitarian context.

More field-focused

People Strategy

OCHA launched its first-ever “People Strategy” in 2018, which will be implemented
over the next four years. Good progress was
made during the first year of the strategy’s
implementation. A priority recruitment
campaign for 131 positions was conducted,
to ensure that OCHA has the diverse talent it
requires to achieve its mandate. The OCHA
Leadership Development Programme was
created, and it provided learning opportunities for 191 staff to grow and develop.
Additionally, strides were made towards
strengthening OCHA’s duty of care, includMore decentralized
ing the establishment of an OCHA Duty of
Care Framework and the allocation of adIn line with the Secretary-General’s vision for ditional resources for psychosocial services
the UN, OCHA directed more decision-mak- and security, to actively support and retain
ing responsibilities closer to the point of talent within OCHA.
delivery in the field. This included piloting
OCHA-specific delegations of administrative
authority so that our field managers are more
empowered to administer their operations:

The ratio of OCHA’s staff based in its field offices rather than at headquarters increased in
2018, compared to previous years. The ratio
of field to headquarters posts in 2018 was 76
per cent to 24 per cent. Similarly, a greater
proportion of OCHA’s extrabudgetary programme budget is directed towards OCHA’s
field activities. The ratio of the allocation
from the 2018 budget for the field as against
headquarters was 73 per cent to 27 per cent.

In late 2018, OCHA transformed its senior
management team (as a consultative and

60

61

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

An evaluation of duty of care
In 2018, OCHA took steps to improve the care we provide to our staff.
OCHA has begun to integrate duty of care elements in
training programmes. A new duty of care framework
that clearly outlines responsibilities has been drafted, and a critical incidents policy is in the process of
being upgraded.
The 2019 workplans of all our offices included a duty of
care component.
These actions result from a 2018 landmark global evaluation of duty of care, which is linked to UN-wide duty of
care efforts and to OCHA’s People Strategy.
The evaluation focused on three areas: security, staff
welfare and working environment. As part of the assessment, information collected from missions to country offices in Iraq, Kenya, Mali and Somalia was used for case
studies. Information from staff in New York and Geneva
was also used for the evaluation. In all, more than 300
people were interviewed, and some 500 survey responses were received. The evaluation made 16 recommendations on how OCHA can improve duty of care, and an
action plan to implement them was developed.

Strengthening OCHA

UN entities to collaborate on
cash assistance

UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL AND
EMERGENCY RELIEF COORDINATOR

In December 2018, three UN agencies and OCHA
presented their joint commitment to increasingly
collaborate on cash and voucher-based humanitarian assistance.
In a joint statement, the principals of OCHA, UNHCR,
WFP and UNICEF outlined their collective intent to realize the efficiency and effectiveness gains that cash and
voucher assistance presents.
The statement underlined opportunities to provide the
assistance in an increasingly coherent and joined-up
manner that would be flexible, contextually appropriate
and collaborative. The agreement focused on three key
areas of engagement or “pillars”.
The first pillar is focused on developing joint ways of
transferring cash or vouchers. This could mean, for
example, the three agencies using the same bank or
financial institution to transfer money to affected people,
or using the same mobile transfer service. The second
pillar looks to develop data systems that are increasingly
compatible between the UN entities and to enhance the
capacity to work across multiple registries owned by the
UN, and perhaps those maintained by government social
welfare systems in the future. The third pillar speaks to
collaborative programming approaches, such as joint
cash feasibility assessments, coordinated targeting, and
joint monitoring and accountability mechanisms.
Six focus countries have been identified for the roll-out
of this joined-up approach: Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
CAR, Ecuador and Yemen. To avoid a fragmented approach, the roll-out will work towards response priorities
through existing assistance coordination mechanisms.
Underpinning the statement is the critical need to be inclusive in cash assistance. The initiative also recognizes
that it was natural for the UN agencies to come together,
as they already collaborate on cash assistance. The venture is expected to be the basis for future engagement
with a range of partners.

62

OCHA ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

OFFICE OF THE
UNDER-SECRETARY-GENERAL
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY-GENERAL FOR
HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIPS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
AND CENTRAL ASIA
STRATEGIC
COMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Design and Multimedia Unit
Media Relations Section

ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
FOR HUMANITARIAN
AFFAIRS AND DEPUTY
EMERGENCY RELIEF
COORDINATOR

Public Advocacy and Campaigns Section

COORDINATION
DIVISION

OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY-GENERAL
STRATEGY, PLANNING, EVALUATION
AND GUIDANCE SECTION
GENDER UNIT

HUMANITARIAN
FINANCING & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION

OPERATIONS &
ADVOCACY DIVISION

IASC secretariat

POOLED FUNDS
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Asia and the Pacific Section

Humanitarian Leadership
Strengthening Section

Central Emergency Response
Fund Secretariat

System-wide Approaches and
Practices Section

Country-Based Pooled
Funds Section

ASSESSMENT, PLANNING
AND MONITORING
BRANCH

PARTNERSHIPS & RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION BRANCH

INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL
SERVICES

Needs Assessment and
Analysis Section
Response Planning and Monitoring
Section
Monitoring Platforms and
Tools Section

OAD Geneva Section
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
& Latin America and the Caribbean
Section
Southern and Eastern Africa Section
(Africa I)
Middle East
and North Africa Section
West and Central
Africa Section (Africa II)

External Relations
and Partnerships Section
Donor Relations Section
Humanitarian Financing Strategy
and Analysis Section

EMERGENCY RESPONSE
SUPPORT BRANCH
Response Service Section
Response Partnerships Section
Readiness and Training Section

EXECUTIVE
OFFICE

INFORMATION
MANAGEMENT BRANCH

Administrative Oversight Section

Information Services Section

Human Resources Section

Digital Services Section

Supply Management and Travel Section

Centre for Humanitarian Data

Budget and Finance Section

Field Information Services Section

POLICY BRANCH
Intergovernmental Policy
Section
Policy Advice and Planning
Section
Policy Analysis and
Innovation Section

63

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Strengthening OCHA

Strengthening OCHA

INFORM: Focus on
subnational risk models
INFORM is a global, open-source risk assessment for
humanitarian crises and disasters. It functions as a
partnership of humanitarian, development, Government
and technical partners that is coordinated at the global
level by OCHA.
In 2018, INFORM continued supporting countries to develop subnational risk models. These included a model
for Niger, which was completed in 2018 with support
from the European Union.

NIGER: INFORM + RISK INDEX
Very high risk
High risk

The impact of data
OCHA’s Humanitarian Data Exchange (HDX) is an
open platform for sharing data across crises and
organizations.
In 2018, its fifth year of operations, HDX saw tremendous growth in the number of people visiting the platform to find and use data about humanitarian crises. By
the end of the year, HDX included 8,000 data sets from
200 organizations, ranging from WFP and IOM to the
National Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.
The number of unique users of the platform more than
doubled in 2018, from 20,632 to 53,033 per month. The
amount of data being downloaded from HDX grew by
114 per cent – from 59,699 data sets in November 2017
to 127,968 data sets in November 2018. These data
were being accessed by people in almost every country
around the world.

Medium risk
Low risk

HDX GROWTH

Very low risk

NUMBER OF UNIQUE USERS

NUMBER OF DATA SETS

N IG ER
127,968

Niamey

53,033

59,699

20,632

Version 100 - September 2018

An INFORM subnational risk model provides risk assessments at the micro level, such as a village, to help people
better prepare for natural or human-made shocks. The
assessments can support decisions about prevention,
preparedness and response.
INFORM subnational risk models now cover 20 countries
with an OCHA presence, as well as 13 other countries.
For OCHA, INFORM represents an alternative approach
to analysis. Rather than just producing an analytical
product, OCHA brings together humanitarian and
technical partners to agree on a process and develop a
methodology for analysing crises.

The HDX team developed a number of interactive data
visualizations that were integrated with other OCHA
platforms including unocha.org, ReliefWeb and Humanitarian InSight. Data from HDX were also used to inform
decision-making and advocacy on topics ranging from
displacement in South Sudan to the Ebola outbreak in
DRC, and cash distributions in Somalia.

300+ humanitarian
icons launched
In 2018, OCHA released a set of more than 300 icons
depicting themes of interest to the humanitarian community such as clusters, disaster types, categories of
affected people, and relief items. This new collection
replaced a very popular first edition – published in 2012
– that averaged more than 120,000 downloads per year
since it was made public.
Humanitarian icons were first developed because during
a crisis it is critical to share and understand complex
information in a timely fashion and icons – with their
easily accessible, universal visual language – are vital to
achieve this.
All of the 2018 icons have been redesigned using standardized design rules to create a homogeneous collection
characterized by comparable visual complexity. The
original set was also extended to include new themes
such as cash transfers and smartphones. Existing topics
were revisited and updated. For instance, dynamism was
added to the ‘people with physical impairments’ pictogram to suggest agency: the hands are now pushing the
wheels rather than just lying on the armrests, and the
human figure itself is leaning forward.
OCHA’s humanitarian icons are an open project. The
collection was published together with guidelines
to help partners and colleagues extend the publicly
available symbols with icons that match their unique
requirements. User-generated icons can be submitted
for publication directly to the Design and Multimedia
Unit (ochavisual@un.org), the group that started and
manages the project.

HDX is part of the data services workstream of The
Hague-based Centre for Humanitarian Data. The Centre
falls under OCHA’s Information Management Branch.
HDX team members include a small number of OCHA
staff working alongside consultants based in The
Hague, Copenhagen, Dakar, Geneva, Jakarta, Nairobi
and New York.

INFORM publishes a Global Risk Index, which is now
well established in the resource allocation processes of
agencies and donors. More information is available at
www.inform-index.org/.

64

65

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Funding

Funding

PROGRAMME BUDGET

OCHA’s programme activities were funded
at approximately 7 per cent from the UN
Regular Budget, which is paid from assessed
contributions from UN Member States.
The remaining 93 per cent of programme
activities were funded from voluntary
contributions.

FUNDING
Only a small percentage of OCHA’s annual programme
budget is funded from the UN Regular Budget. The CERF and
Country-Based Pooled Funds are entirely funded by donor
contributions. OCHA remains reliant on voluntary contributions
to implement its mandate.

66%

FIELD XB BUDGET
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)

67%

After reaching its highest extrabudgetary
programme requirements ($334 million)
HQ XB BUDGET
29%
26%
(PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES)
in 2015, OCHA experienced several years of
budget downsizing. In 2018, OCHA main7%
5%
REGULAR BUDGET
tained strong fiscal discipline while at the
2015
2016
2017
2018
same time making every effort to find cost 2014
efficiencies and uphold the capacity to respond to new needs. Starting at $241 million, the 2018 extrabudgetary programme EXTRABUDGETARY BUDGET:
budget increased to $246.5 million by year FIELD VS. HQ BUDGET (US$)
end, mainly to meet growing coordination
HQ ACTIVITIES
FIELD ACTIVITIES
needs in Yemen.
OCHA also implemented an extensive internal reform in 2018. To cover exceptional
costs related to this restructuring process, a
separate budget of $11.8 million was created,
which contained three distinct elements:
separations and temporary placement of
staff; office closures (e.g., regional offices
for Central Asia and for Southern Africa);
and the change implementation team. Altogether, OCHA’s closing extrabudgetary programme budget in 2018 was $258.3 million.
PROGRAMME AND POOLED FUNDS INCOME

Donor income for all three strands of OCHA
activities (programme, CERF and CBPFs)
reached record levels in 2018. OCHA received
over the year $274.9 million to cover its 2018
extrabudgetary programme budget as well
as some of 2019 requirements. This figure is
well above the $238.7 million received in 2017
and exceeds OCHA’s total extrabudgetary
programme requirements for the first time
in recent history. The increased income is a
reflection of donors’ enhanced confidence
in OCHA’s internal reform, fiscal discipline
and operational performance.

66

FIELD PROPORTION OF OCHA’S
PROGRAMME BUDGET TREND

$67.8M
27.5%

$178.7M
72.5%

An additional $5.3 million was received for
OCHA-managed activities implemented in
partnership with other organizations, such
as national UNDAC mission accounts held
with OCHA, as well as the Protection and
Gender Standby Capacity Project rosters and
the Humanitarian Data Centre in The Hague.
As these are pass-through contributions,
they are not counted as income to OCHA’s
extrabudgetary programme.
OCHA also manages two types of pooled
funds: CERF, a global fund that aims to
provide early funding immediately after
sudden-onset disasters or to underfunded
crises anywhere in the world; and CBPFs,
which aim to support a faster and bet-

67

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Funding

Funding

EARMARKING TRENDS – TOTAL (US$)

TOP DONORS – UNEARMARKED AND
EARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

250
200

$130.2M

UNEARMARKED

United States

150

Sweden

100

United Kingdom

EARMARKED

50
0

$144.8M

Saudi Arabia
European Commission

2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

In 2018, donors gave $130 million, or 47 per
cent of programme income, as unearmarked
funding (up from $106 million in 2017). This
is the highest amount of flexible income
OCHA has ever received for its programme
budget. Donors also gave an additional $36.6
million as softly earmarked contributions
(for a regional crisis, or thematic issue).
See pages 71 and 72 on the use of flexible
funding in 2018.

Norway
Germany

EARMARKING TRENDS – PERCENTAGES

Flexibility

Qatar

In addition, OCHA received $558.6 million in
fully unearmarked funds for CERF and $950
million in softly earmarked funds for CBPFs.

Canada

EARMARKED
53%

54%

Australia
Switzerland
Japan

46%

2014

UNEARMARKED
47%
2015

2016

2017

2018

ter-targeted humanitarian response in the
country in which they are based. In 2018,
OCHA raised $558.6 million for CERF and
$950 million for all CBPFs (of which $598
million was administered by OCHA and $352
million by UNDP/MPTF) (see pages 55-57).
Extensive information on where and how
funds were used can be found in the respective annual reports of the funds, available
on the OCHA website.
To cover its indirect costs, OCHA charges
programme support costs of 7 per cent on
its extrabudgetary programme activities
and national UNDAC mission accounts, 3
per cent for other pass-through grants, and
2 per cent on CERF and CBPFs.
OCHA’s income in 2018 was exceptional
not only in terms of volume, but in terms
of quality such as predictability, flexibility,
timeliness and diversity:

68

Netherlands
Denmark
United Arab Emirates

Predictability

OCHA benefited from predictable and stable income of $109 million from multi-year
agreements with 15 donors. Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, Sweden,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom extended or signed new agreements in 2018.
Likewise, the CBPFs benefited from multi-year agreements with Belgium, Canada,
Qatar, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom for a combined annual value of $218
million. For its part the CERF had multi-year
agreements with Australia, Belgium, Canada, Iceland, Luxembourg, Norway, Qatar,
Sweden, and the United Kingdom for an
annual value of $261 million.
OCHA’s strong and long-standing relationships with the OCHA Donor Support Group
(ODSG) members also provides reliable income. ODSG members provided nearly all
of OCHA’s global income in 2018.

Timeliness of payments

FINAL DISTRIBUTION OF
UNEARMARKED FUNDING (US$)
HEADQUARTERS
$67.5M
51.4%

COUNTRY OFFICES
$47.8M
36.4%

REGIONAL OFFICES
$8.7M
6.6%

LIAISON OFFICES
$0.7M
0.6%

FLEXIBLE
IMPLEMENTATION
(CARRIED THROUGH
2019)
$6.6M
5%

The difference in cash contributions received ($130.2M) and cash
allocated ($131.4M) is due to a gain in the exchange rate.

Fifty-seven per cent of programme income
was received during the first half of the year,
and an additional 30 per cent in the third
quarter. This is better than in 2017, when 43
per cent of income was received in the first Member States contributed to CBPFs, and 38
six months. The liquidity and cash situation Member States and the European Commiswas stable throughout the year.
sion contributed to the programme. OCHA
also received contributions from the private
sector (United Parcel Service) and individDiversity
uals. Donor diversity and over-reliance on
a small group of donors (nearly 80 per cent
of OCHA’s income in 2018 was from the top
10 donors) continues to be a challenge for
TIMELINESS OF DISBURSEMENT
OCHA. Progress has, however, been made
on greater geographic diversity of ODSG
100%
membership with the arrival of Qatar as a
member in 2017 and Saudi Arabia in 2018.
75%
3rd QUARTER
50%
2nd QUARTER

25%

2015

2016

2017

2018

OCHA received in 2018 contributions for its
programme, the CERF, and CBPFs from 66
Member States and the European Commission, up from 64 in 2017. Fifty-two Member
States made contributions to the CERF, 32

OCHA Donor Support Group
Created by Member States in 1998 as a “Group of friends” with
originally seven members, the ODSG now includes 29 members,
including the arrival of Saudi Arabia in 2018. The ODSG is a
sounding board on a range of issues related to policy, programme
and finance. The criteria for membership in ODSG include the
commitment to provide continued and substantial financial support to OCHA, and the willingness to provide political support to
implement General Assembly resolution 46/182. In 2018, ODSG
members provided 99 per cent of OCHA’s programme income.

69

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Funding

Funding

Flexible income in 2018
PROGRAMME EXPENDITURE

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
PROGRAMME ACTIVITIES (US$)
Field-based
humanitarian coordination

175.2 M 70%

Direct HQ support
for field coordination
Communication and
information management

35.7 M 14%
14.9 M 6%

Executive direction
and management

6.3 M 3%

Policy and normative
development

5.1 M 2%

Programme
common cost

3.9 M 2%

Humanitarian
financing support

5.3 M 2%

One-time
costs

4.3 M 2%

CASH OPERATING BALANCE

OCHA ended 2018 with a programme closing
balance of $157.9 million, including: $111.5
million kept as operational cash balance;
$13.74 million already allocated for programming; $28.65 million in balances (including
$4 million in pledges) from earmarked and
unearmarked projects to be implemented
in 2019; and $4 million kept as contingency
funds to cover sudden onset emergencies.

DIRECT EXPENDITURE BY
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIVITIES (US$)
Administrative
activities

15.1M

Field-based
humanitarian coordination

51%

11M 37%

Communication and
information management
One-time
costs

3.2M 11%
0.6M 2%

120
CLOSING BALANCE
BREAKDOWN (US$)
105
90
75

FUNDS THAT CAN
BE UTILIZED
IN 2019
91%

60
45
30
15
0

70

OCHA’s implementation rate in 2018 was
98 per cent under the extrabudgetary programme budget. This is much higher than
for any previous year, indicating that OCHA
is moving towards operating at full capacity.

OPERATIONAL
CASH
$111.5M
71%

EARMARKED &
UNEARMARKED
FUNDS

(INCLUDING $4M ECHO
UNPAID PLEDGES)
$28.7M
18%

CONTINGENCY
FUNDS
$4M
2%

OTHER

(NON-PROGRAMMABLE)
$13.7M
9%

OCHA needs an operating cash balance of at
least $100 million at the beginning of each
year to advance about $63 million to field
offices and headquarters in anticipation
of cash to be received from donors during
the year. OCHA also needs to advance $40
million to UNDP every year to cover national staff and UNV salaries’ liability for
their entire year.

What is flexible income?

contributed softly earmarked funding; and an additional
five donors contributed softly unearmarked funding. This
is a positive trend and demonstrates donors’ commitments to the Grand Bargain. The Grand Bargain is an
agreement between the biggest donors and humanitarian aid organizations made at the 2016 World Humanitarian Summit, which included 51 commitments to
get more means into the hands of people in need and
improve humanitarian action.

Flexible income consists of unearmarked and softly
earmarked contributions, which give OCHA full or partial
flexibility to use funds based on operational requirements. Funds are considered unearmarked when they
are for OCHA’s overall activities, with no limitation for
use in any specific office or project. Softly earmarked
contributions are typically restricted by donors for use
in a geographic region or regional crisis, such as the
Syria crisis or the El Niño crisis. The funds can also
be used for a global programme. OCHA can decide
to allocate funds to any office or activity within the
broader category.

The top donors of unearmarked funding were the United
Kingdom ($31 million), Sweden ($22 million), Norway
($10.9 million), Qatar ($10 million) and Saudi Arabia ($9
million). Top donors of softly earmarked funding in 2018
were the United States ($16.3 million) and Saudi Arabia
($8 million).

Why it is important?

Use of flexible funding

More than any other form of support, flexible funding
is critical to OCHA’s ability to allocate funds where and
when they are needed. As a coordinating entity, OCHA’s
budget is primarily for its staff located in offices across
the world. A high degree of predictability and flexibility in
funding is critical to maintaining a stable workforce and
service delivery.

During 2018, flexible funding was used to cover the full
range of OCHA’s coordination tools and services around
the world, with funding often moved or reallocated to
kick-start responses to new emergencies; scale up
operations in deteriorating crises; fill temporary funding
gaps to avoid interruption in critical operations, including
protracted, lower-profile ones; and ensure the delivery of
essential field support from global programmes.

Flexible contributions allow OCHA to plan more strategically across its operations and to scale up its presence during a disaster, or even before new disasters
occur, without having to wait for donors to provide the
resources to do so. Flexible contributions are vital, as
they can be used numerous times across OCHA’s field
and headquarters locations according to the cash flow
situation, multiplying operational impact. For example,
unearmarked funds can be used to rapidly scale up
operations in a field location when a crisis deteriorates.
If earmarked funding is received for that operation, the
unearmarked funds can be moved to support other critical operations or activities.
Unearmarked and softly earmarked funds are therefore
important for facilitating the financial management of
OCHA. Flexible funds reduce transaction costs associated with having to deal with overlapping and/or cumulative restrictions and thereby enhance OCHA’s administrative efficiency.
Flexible funding received in 2018
In 2018, OCHA received a record amount of flexible funding, including $130 million in unearmarked funding and
$36.6 million in softly earmarked funding. Thirty donors
contributed unearmarked funding, nine of which also

While flexible funding was moved throughout the year to
where it was most needed at any given point in time, at
the end of 2018 when all income, including earmarked
income, was received, 44 per cent of flexible funding
remained directly allocated to field operations, and
51 per cent to global headquarters programmes. The
remaining balance consisted of funding with flexible
implementation into 2019 and was carried forward to
fund 2019 activities early in the new year, before other
contributions came in.
In DRC – OCHA’s second-largest country operation (after
Yemen), supporting close to 200 humanitarian partners
assisting 13 million people – unearmarked funding
was used to kick-start the response to Ebola outbreaks,
which required adapted coordination mechanisms, while
at the same time covering 43 per cent of the financial
requirements of OCHA in DRC. The Afghanistan crisis,
in its 17th year, was compounded by a severe drought
affecting millions of people, requiring a scale-up of relief
and thus OCHA’s coordination efforts. OCHA’s office
in Afghanistan received less than a third of its requirements from earmarked funding and would not have been
able to operate without allocations of unearmarked funding. OCHA’s operations in other large, complex crises
such as in CAR, Mali, Myanmar, Nigeria, oPt, Somalia,

71

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

Funding

South Sudan and Sudan also benefited from unearmarked funding for seamless support to humanitarian
action. Together, these 10 offices received nearly $35
million of OCHA’s unearmarked funding, over a quarter
of the total.
Regional offices in Latin America and Asia relied on
unearmarked funding to provide surge staff to respond,
respectively, to the deterioration of the Venezuelan
migrant crisis and a massive earthquake, compounded
by a tsunami and landslides, in Indonesia. OCHA’s six
regional offices received $8.7 million in unearmarked
funding (one of the regional offices closed at the end
of March 2018).
In 2018, centrally managed programmes at headquarters received just over half (51 per cent) of all unearmarked funding. These programmes include standby
response tools, information management services,
Humanitarian programme Cycle expertise, CMCoord policy and advocacy. Their achievements, along with many
other global programmes described in this report, were
possible thanks to unearmarked funding.

72

Annexes

OCHA evaluation of CountryBased Pooled Funds
In 2018, OCHA commissioned an independent evaluation of CBPFs across 18 countries covering the period of
January 2015 to December 2018.
The evaluation, which is ongoing in 2019, is being
conducted to improve accountability and learning. CBPFs are being assessed for performance against their
strategic objectives and principles, as laid out in OCHA’s
formal policy instruction on the funds.
The functioning and impact of CBPFs are being assessed to identify both their strengths and their weaknesses, and areas for improvement. The evaluation will
examine the operational impact of the funds and the
results of the humanitarian action it financed. An evaluation report, which is expected in November 2019, will
provide recommendations on how to ensure that
CBPFs are fit for the future as a funding mechanism in
support of timely, coordinated and principled response
to affected people.

ANNEXES

73

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

Acronyms

Financial tables

ASG

Assistant Secretary-General

NGCA

Non-Government-Controlled Area

ASP

Associates Surge Pool

MIRA

Multi-Sector Initial Rapid Assessment

CAR

Central African Republic

NGO

Non-governmental organization

CBPF

Country-Based Pooled Funds

OCHA

United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs

CERF

Central Emergency Response Fund

ODSG

OCHA Donor Support Group

CMCoord

Civil-military coordination

oPt

occupied Palestinian territory

CPP

Country Preparedness Package

oPtHF

occupied Palestinian territory Humanitarian Fund

DRC

Democratic Republic of the Congo

PHT

Pacific Humanitarian Team

ECHO

European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations

PSEA

Preventing sexual exploitation and abuse

ERC

Emergency Relief Coordinator

PROCAP

Protection Standby Capacity

ERR

Emergency Response Roster

RC

Resident Coordinator

EU

European Union

RHC

Resident Humanitarian Coordinator

FTS

Financial Tracking Service

ROAP

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

GAM

Gender with Age Marker

ROLAC

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

HAT

Humanitarian Advisory Team

ROMENA

Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa

HC

Humanitarian Coordinator

ROSEA

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

HCT

Humanitarian Country Team

ROWCA

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

HNO

Humanitarian Needs Overview

RSS

Response Services Section

HRP

Humanitarian Response Plan

SBPP

Stand-By Partnership Programme

IASC

Inter-Agency Standing Committee

SDCs

Specially designated contributions

IDP

Internally displaced person

UNDAC

United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination

INFORM

Index for Risk Management

UNDP

United Nations Development Programme

INSARAG

International Search and Rescue Advisory Group

UNHCR

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees

IOM

International Organization for Migration

UNICEF

United Nations Children’s Fund

ISIL
L3

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
Level 3

UNV

United Nations Volunteer

USG

Under-Secretary-General

WFP

World Food Programme

2016 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME
Donor

US$

United States1

49,253,424

United Kingdom
Sweden

2017 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME
Donor

US$

2018 OCHA PROGRAMME DONOR INCOME
Donor

US$

United States4

48,306,198

United States

42,373,626

United Kingdom

31,595,453

Sweden

37,182,741

36,631,502

Sweden

24,582,361

United Kingdom

35,067,828
21,600,000

51,337,000

European Commission2

21,261,019

Germany

18,578,297

Saudi Arabia

Germany

15,249,535

European Commission

17,461,466

European Commission

16,735,668

Norway

14,875,779

Norway

14,390,097

Norway

15,102,384

10,220,000

Germany

14,545,576

Qatar

10,000,000

Switzerland

9,563,712

Qatar

Japan

8,678,075

Netherlands

8,572,535

Belgium

8,290,546

Australia

8,177,376

Canada

9,439,435

Australia

7,337,360

Canada

7,947,516

Australia

8,235,914
6,678,882

Canada

5,969,019

Denmark

7,536,936

Switzerland

Netherlands

5,894,868

Switzerland

6,479,407

Japan

6,068,181

Ireland

5,472,489

Japan

6,192,981

Netherlands

5,684,266

Denmark

4,460,303

Belgium

4,388,651

Denmark

4,971,002

Finland

3,791,983

Ireland

4,244,473

United Arab Emirates

4,620,000

New Zealand

3,462,604

Finland

3,791,983

Belgium

4,519,938

Spain

1,387,347

New Zealand

3,462,604

Ireland

3,810,250

Korea, Republic of

1,350,000

Korea, Republic of

2,100,000

Finland

3,791,983

Italy3

1,133,787

Spain

1,085,776

New Zealand

3,462,604

France

1,132,503

France

1,085,776

Spain

2,717,391

Russian Federation

850,000

Malaysia

1,000,000

Korea, Republic of

1,700,000
1,207,729

Luxembourg

809,740

Russian Federation

980,000

France

Austria

653,623

Luxembourg

880,236

Luxembourg

1,005,442

Poland

558,645

United Arab Emirates

769,975

Russian Federation

1,000,000

Turkey

500,000

Austria

637,030

Austria

671,217

Estonia

319,037

Estonia

564,444

Estonia

632,110

Malta

193,039

Turkey

500,000

Italy3

585,480

Kazakhstan

150,000

Poland

492,854

Poland

519,736

Thailand

100,000

Greece

360,577

Turkey

500,000

Georgia

100,000

Slovakia

344,649

Kazakhstan

410,000

Iceland

100,000

Kuwait

214,449

Iceland

314,335

Romania

55,188

Iceland

214,335

Bulgaria

267,140
250,000

Bulgaria

53,079

Thailand

150,739

Kuwait

Singapore

50,000

Kazakhstan

150,000

Romania

60,386

Czech Republic

39,246

Malta

134,651

Slovakia

38,680

China

30,000

Bulgaria

114,063

Monaco

35,842

Monaco

27,933

Argentina

50,000

China

30,000

United Arab Emirates

25,000

Azerbaijan

50,000

Malta

29,481

Hungary

22,124

China

30,000

Latvia

22,727

Philippines

20,000

Kuwait
Subtotal 1
Multi-Donor Funds

5,000
252,231,145
11,186,824

Monaco

26,151

Subtotal

Saudi Arabia

20,000

Multi-Donor Funds

Singapore

20,000

Andorra

15,924

UN and Other Agencies

150,212

Peru

Private Donations

100,214

Subtotal 1

Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2016

11,437,250
263,668,385

Multi-Donor Funds

10,319
237,930,282
7,650

UN and Other Agencies

145,568

Private Donations

575,000

Subtotal 2
TOTAL 2017

UN, NGOs and other entities
Private Donations6
Subtotal
TOTAL 2018

274,851,352
5

61,741
75,050
136,791
274,988,143

728,218
238,658,500

Note: Totals include paid and pledged contributions.
1

74

Amount different than published in 2016 report, due to cancellation of pledge ($66,576) in 2017.

2

Total includes funding to the Sudan office (EUR 2M) which is meant for 2017.

3

Transfers from Italy’s pre-positioned fund of $1,133,787 to the Syria office in 2016 and of $500,000 to the Niger office in 2018 are recorded as income to specially designated contributions.

4

Amount different than published in 2017 report, due to cancellation of pledge ($76,963) in 2018.

5

Funds received from Christian Aid, NRC, UNDOCO and UNDP.

6

Funds received from UPS Foundation and private donor.

75

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

OCHA-managed

Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office managed

COUNTRY-BASED POOLED FUNDS: CONTRIBUTIONS BY DONOR AND FUND IN 2018
Recipient
Donor

Ethiopia

Iraq

Myanmar

Nigeria

oPt2

Pakistan

Syria

Jordan

Lebanon

Turkey

Yemen

Afghanistan

CAR3

DRC4

Somalia

South Sudan

Sudan

TOTAL

United Kingdom

25,470,220

17,172,068

3,639,010

-

-

4,465,812

1,314,060

-

-

45,622,903

39,793,810

24,011,950

8,354,890

36,518,819

6,441,980

16,846,050

23,319,400

252,970,973

Germany

14,910,610

9,318,182

1,169,591

6,590,909

5,925,095

-

-

2,844,141

2,840,909

22,638,781

43,808,442

568,106

6,223,800

19,536,077

13,635,600

21,095,700

4,557,200

175,663,143

Sweden

6,666,071

1,903,553

1,269,036

2,538,071

3,612,825

2,918,782

3,205,405

3,316,627

1,903,553

3,951,145

10,232,771

12,196,081

1,482,102

12,160,621

9,782,771

9,487,464

7,039,986

93,666,865

-

8,254,717

-

8,254,717

-

-

6,038,647

-

-

14,302,060

18,966,842

-

-

8,250,200

4,697,600

12,472,100

-

81,236,883

Ireland

8,949,441

2,453,988

-

2,341,920

341,297

-

-

1,851,852

2,469,136

3,067,485

6,045,632

-

3,580,776

3,675,576

3,635,376

4,802,852

3,635,376

46,850,706

Norway

-

-

-

2,763,031

7,155,326

-

5,112,511

-

-

5,841,594

4,281,772

2,163,812

-

2,088,085

5,230,808

9,918,122

1,234,680

45,789,742

Netherlands

Belgium

-

3,412,969

-

2,275,313

2,730,375

-

8,248,009

1,706,485

1,706,485

8,248,009

4,550,626

-

1,848,900

5,450,550

-

4,930,400

-

45,108,121

3,049,245

2,294,982

-

-

-

-

4,053,835

-

-

4,053,835

9,624,472

3,032,003

3,230,496

-

4,120,042

3,043,769

4,038,120

40,540,799

14,750,000

10,000,000

4,250,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

34,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000,000

-

25,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

25,000,000

3,544,190

1,119,930

1,511,183

-

1,529,473

1,810,736

994,332

20,801,788

-

764,292

-

-

3,026,521

2,580,188

-

16,248,925

4,840,428

-

771,724

1,592,737

1,566,969

622,262

-

14,772,124

Denmark
United States
United Arab Emirates
Saudi Arabia
Switzerland

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,519,383

-

197,239

1,518,219

3,026,330

-

1,010,101

-

501,505

2,519,168

Australia

-

-

2,267,574

-

7,610,350

-

-

-

-

-

Canada

-

373,692

773,401

78,555

-

387,297

3,012,048

-

-

753,012

France
Korea, Republic of

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

364,050

455,063

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,602,136

300,000

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

5,783,023
-

1,000,000

1,000,000

200,000

500,000

500,000

800,000

-

5,300,000

Kuwait

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

-

-

-

5,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,100,000

Qatar

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

500,000

-

500,000

-

472,904

999,960

-

-

-

-

-

3,472,864

Luxembourg

-

370,370

370,370

370,370

-

-

370,370

-

-

-

370,370

-

370,535

370,535

-

370,535

-

2,963,457

Italy

-

-

-

-

584,795

-

-

585,480

-

1,706,485

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,876,760

Spain

-

-

-

-

724,638

-

1,207,729

-

-

-

603,865

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,536,232

Iceland

-

-

-

246,354

246,354

-

254,065

-

254,065

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,838

Jersey

-

-

-

-

-

-

705,219

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

705,219

New Zealand

-

-

665,336

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

665,336

Portugal

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

165,136

-

-

-

-

-

-

165,136

Malaysia

-

100,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

Malta

-

-

31,056

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

34,843

-

-

-

-

-

-

65,899

Colombia

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

50,000

Cyprus

-

11,377

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

37,037

-

-

-

-

-

-

48,414

Lithuania

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

24,691

-

-

-

-

-

-

24,691

Montenegro

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

12,077

-

-

-

-

-

-

12,077

Philippines

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

10,000

Andorra

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,173

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,173

UNF 1

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,339

10,823

887

100,159

142,710

3,491

260,410

75,614,970

56,665,898

14,632,612

27,977,459

31,957,386

7,771,890

35,132,001

10,304,585

10,539,702

208,931,144

45,858,472

27,585,230

90,144,088

54,267,300

88,922,888

44,822,586

949,615,710

GRAND TOTAL (US$)

118,487,499

Totals include paid and pledged contributions.

3

Central African Republic.

Note: CBPF MPTF; source is GMS based on actual cash received while CBPF OCHA, source is OCT based on pledge value.

4

Democratic Republic of the Congo.

1

United Nations Foundation.

2

occupied Palestinian territory.

76

77

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Annexes

OCHA BUDGET AND
EXPENDITURE IN 2018 (US$)
REGULAR BUDGET ACTIVITIES

Annexes

Extrabudgetary Administrative Activities

Mandated Programme Activities
Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

Original

Final

Expenditure

Expend. Rate

17,596,000

17,596,000

16,714,196

95%

-

-

-

-

743,303
1,160,830
957,985
2,175,198
21,146,935
821,664

843,433
1,316,178
934,561
2,292,764
22,332,857
782,480

792,565
1,314,152
884,982
2,285,965
21,521,567
782,480

94%
100%
95%
100%
96%
100%

6,955,564
9,097,050

6,263,528
9,733,487

5,524,092
9,692,779

88%
100%

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES
HEADQUARTERS
OFFICE OF USG
OFFICE OF ASG
ASG FOR HUMANITARIAN PARTNERSHIPS
CENTRAL COSTS
COORDINATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICE
HUMANITARIAN FINANCING AND RESOURCE
MOBILIZATION DIVISION
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT
OPERATIONS AND ADVOCACY
POLICY
STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS
STRATEGY, PLANNING AND EVALUATION
HEADQUARTERS Total
FIELD
Regional Offices
Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and Central Africa
country offices
All FIELD
Emerging needs
Field corporate training
Information Management Branch direct costing to field
Investigating allegations of SEA involving implementing
partners (IP) in the field
Africa
Burundi
Central African Republic
Chad
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Eritrea
Ethiopia
Mali
Niger
Nigeria
Cameroon
Somalia
South Sudan
Sudan
Asia and the Pacific
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific Islands
Philippines
Central Asia, Pakistan and Afghanistan
Afghanistan
Pakistan
Europe
Ukraine
Latin America & the Caribbean
Haiti
Venezuela support
Middle East and North Africa
Iraq
Libya
occupied Palestinian territory
Riyadh
Syria
Syria OCHA Operation in Jordan
Syria OCHA Operation in Lebanon
Syria OCHA Operation in Turkey
Syria RHC Office
United Arab Emirates
Yemen
Yemen OCHA office - Saudi and Emirate funds

78

7,489,150

6,225,370

6,066,259

97%

11,566,120

11,392,955

11,004,895

97%

10,423,250
10,031,298
5,120,100
4,204,763

10,944,662
10,756,521
5,054,594
4,391,438

10,708,457
10,644,242
4,970,763
4,331,589

98%
99%
98%
99%

3,091,946
-

3,138,946
-

3,209,392
-

102%
-

1,889,065

1,966,825

1,817,710

92%

-

-

-

-

66,163,542

67,841,682

66,120,732

97%

30,710,680

30,528,916

29,431,158

96%

19,795,497

20,075,264

19,740,815

98%

-

-

-

-

4,867,304
3,845,070
4,062,119
2,472,734
4,548,269
154,823,239
1,000,000
380,000
620,000
-

5,379,176
3,663,170
4,399,563
2,154,358
4,478,997
158,101,087
632,795
12,795
620,000
-

5,298,955
3,596,559
4,336,919
2,143,921
4,364,460
155,718,120
622,557
12,795
586,159
-

99%
98%
99%
100%
97%
98%
98%
100%
95%
-

12,147,089
-

12,229,665
-

9,772,255
-

80%
-

-

-

23,603

-

-

-

-

-

80,975,857
1,425,971
8,902,082
4,581,811
14,566,250
806,377
5,516,630
4,485,762
3,673,907
8,404,997
2,299,470
8,730,572
9,955,686
9,031,875
6,844,271
4,032,562
1,136,540
1,675,168
11,764,985
8,675,514
3,089,471
3,305,378
3,305,378
2,034,828
2,034,828
47,492,388
8,311,744
3,587,932
6,541,195
7,198,222
1,707,319
2,121,227
3,181,895
3,417,462
11,425,390
-

81,229,237
1,479,472
9,610,869
4,582,189
13,872,712
806,377
5,742,496
5,090,676
3,342,692
7,845,664
2,948,157
8,214,966
11,001,059
8,307,502
6,668,284
3,937,751
994,065
1,736,468
11,913,755
9,016,884
2,896,871
2,925,528
2,925,528
2,223,838
1,952,570
271,267
50,892,056
8,176,391
3,279,830
6,921,045
103,512
6,965,307
1,760,819
1,821,627
3,110,881
3,389,741
482,784
11,100,012
4,262,891

73,739,695
1,460,137
9,582,582
4,521,751
13,791,507
780,616
5,715,706
5,050,648
3,276,167
7,672,351
2,936,032
8,195,116
10,973,099
8,273,172
6,425,389
3,823,913
897,882
1,703,594
11,593,038
8,924,778
2,668,260
2,874,863
2,874,863
1,987,149
1,715,995
271,155
49,986,240
8,063,749
3,270,200
6,878,414
6,926,072
1,701,124
1,721,177
2,805,650
3,330,644
449,833
11,060,480
4,228,731

91%
99%
100%
99%
99%
97%
100%
99%
98%
98%
100%
100%
100%
100%
96%
97%
90%
98%
97%
99%
92%
98%
98%
89%
88%
100%
98%
99%
100%
99%
99%
97%
94%
90%
98%
93%
100%
99%

6,821,126
-

6,892,028
-

5,763,471
-

84%
-

Total field

174,618,735

178,659,134

175,908,768

98%

-

-

-

-

TOTAL HEADQUARTERS AND FIELD

240,782,277

246,500,817

242,029,499

98%

30,710,680

30,528,916

29,431,158

96%

TOTAL HEADQUARTERS, FIELD AND ONE-TIME COSTS

240,782,277

258,330,452

249,003,627

96%

30,710,680

31,053,154

30,030,097

97%

21,675,990
1,851,466

22,329,505
1,851,466

18,566,351
1,789,694

83%
97%

-

-

-

-

997,194

997,194

809,564

81%

-

-

-

-

143,855
1,568,312
1,066,386
1,691,170
418,568
456,037
399,786
1,529,297
366,142
283,580
1,899,808
2,100,108
1,509,780
909,739
2,186,138
2,298,623

143,855
1,642,003
1,066,386
1,691,170
418,568
456,037
399,786
1,529,297
379,142
283,580
1,999,695
2,166,310
1,509,780
909,739
2,186,138
2,699,357

120,183
1,395,750
739,976
1,353,297
374,167
336,599
325,720
1,257,650
379,897
249,882
1,695,100
1,737,416
1,047,859
702,939
1,787,367
2,463,290

84%
85%
69%
80%
89%
74%
81%
82%
100%
88%
85%
80%
69%
77%
82%
91%

-

-

-

-

ONE-TIME COSTS

-

11,829,635

7,028,443

59%

-

524,238

598,939

114%

DORMANT ACCOUNTS AND OTHERS

-

-

-54,316

-

-

-

-104,136

-

262,458,267

280,659,957

267,569,978

95%

30,710,680

31,053,154

29,925,961

96%

280,054,267 298,255,957 284,284,174

95%

30,710,680

31,053,154

29,925,961

96%

CBPF MANAGEMENT UNITS
Afghanistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
CAR - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Colombia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
DRC - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Ethiopia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Iraq - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Jordan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Lebanon - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Myanmar - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Nigeria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
oPt - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Pakistan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Somalia - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
South Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Sudan - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Syria - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Turkey - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit
Yemen - CBPF Humanitarian Financing Unit

EXTRABUDGETARY ACTIVITIES INCLUDING CBPFs,
ONE-TIME AND DORMANT Total
TOTAL OCHA ACTIVITIES (REGULAR BUDGET AND
EXTRABUDGETARY)

79

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

ALLOCATION OF UNEARMARKED CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2018
HEADQUARTERS

SPECIALLY DESIGNATED CONTRIBUTIONS
BY DONOR IN 2018 (US$)

65,527,803

FIELD ACTIVITIES

56,394,635

REGIONAL OFFICES

8,495,805

US$

Saudi Arabia1

461,400,000

United Arab Emirates1

461,400,000

United Kingdom

137,488,127

Germany

110,046,660

Regional Office for Asia and the Pacific

1,286,264

Regional Office for Latin America and the Caribbean

2,405,443

Netherlands

Regional Office for Southern and Eastern Africa

2,639,321

Sweden

41,517,839

Regional Office for West and Central Africa

2,164,776

United States

35,925,000

ALL FIELD
Emerging needs
Field corporate training
Investigating allegations of SEA involving IPs in field
AFRICA
Cameroon

626,954
12,795
587,159
27,000
28,567,191
958,356

Central African Republic

4,876,078

Chad

2,119,751

Democratic Republic of the Congo

5,198,320

Eritrea

820,531

Ethiopia

156,702

Mali

2,951,890

Niger

1,035,238

Nigeria

1,782,086

Somalia

2,148,631

South Sudan

3,065,193

Sudan

3,013,984

Burundi
Côte d'Ivoire
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Myanmar
Office for the Pacific
Philippines
Rohingya Refugee Crisis
CENTRAL ASIA, PAKISTAN AND AFGHANISTAN
Afghanistan
EUROPE
Ukraine
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Haiti
Venezuela support
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

439,631
800
4,472,303
2,798,762

65,000
6,216,362
6,216,362
1,430,640
1,430,640
1,557,209
1,308,309
248,900
5,028,171
2,742,481

Libya

1,874,674

United Arab Emirates
ONE-TIME COSTS

362,014

173,645
191,985

Change implementation

46,101

Regional Office for the Caucasus and Central Asia
Gulf Liaison Office
With flexible implementation carried through 2019
GRAND TOTAL

598,015,147

613,497

3,900,446

UNDAC

Other SDCs

510,102

874,113,126

Belgium

32,899,721

The total includes paid and pledged contributions.

27,748,281

Norway

26,189,179

Excludes: Contributions channelled through OCHA to NGOs and non UN partners via the Somalia
HF(US$62,302,849.29), Afghanistan HF (US$40,620,899.43).

Denmark

23,076,369

Switzerland

14,652,921

Australia

10,453,077

Canada

10,218,433

France

6,602,136

Kuwait

5,100,000

Italy

3,490,257

Spain

2,536,232

Qatar

2,472,904

Korea, Republic of

2,300,000

Luxembourg

1,851,852

Iceland

1,000,838

New Zealand

665,336

Portugal

165,136

Malaysia

100,000

Malta

65,899

Colombia

60,000

Slovenia

50,000

China

50,000

Costa Rica

50,000

Cyprus

48,414

Latvia

28,409

1,477,152,318

ODSG AND OTHER DONOR CONTRIBUTIONS
TO THE PROGRAMME IN 2018 (US$)
2016

2017

2018

OCHA Donor contributions1

263,668,384

238,735,459

274,988,143

Contributions from ODSG

250,218,315

235,101,387

273,392,760

OCHA Extrabudgetary Programme

294,913,926

264,586,005

258,330,452

Number of donors2

44

47

41

Number of ODSG donors

27

28

29

1

Total includes paid and pledged contributions.

2

Number includes donors such as Multi-Partner Trust Fund Office, private donors, ECHO and UN agencies.

OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)

Lithuania

24,691

Entity

Description

Argentina

15,000

FAO

Technical assistance/expert services

131,786

Montenegro

12,077

Governement of Germany

Technical assistance/expert services

127,476

Philippines

10,000

Governement of Japan

Office space

44,187

Government of Kazakhstan through UNDP

Office space

14,570

Government of Tajikistan through UNDP

Office space

568

International Humanitarian City (Dubai)

Office space

60,000

UNHCR

Technical assistance/expert services

UNICEF

Technical assistance/expert services

100,722

WFP

Technical assistance/expert services

108,488

Andorra

6,173

Other donors
City of The Hague

176,471

Education Above All

392,385

Jersey

705,219

UN and other agencies

290,300

2

GRAND TOTAL

GRAND TOTAL

US$

145,016

1,477,152,318

The total includes paid and pledged contributions.
Excludes contributions channelled through OCHA to
NGOs and non-UN partners via the CBPFs for Somalia
(US$62,302,849.29) and Afghanistan (US$40,620,899.43).
Part of $930 million grant to Yemen Humanitarian
Response Plan, channelled through OCHA to UN agencies.
Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates both contributed
$461,400,000 and are listed alphabetically.
1

2

Funds received from FAO, UNDP, UNFPA, UNHCR and WFP.

Specially designated
contributions

2,888,047

Brussels Liaison Office

Regional Office for Southern Africa

Pre-positioned ProCap and GenCap Rosters

Ireland

49,003

African Union Liaison Office

One-time costs project

2018 Donor Contributions

CBPF

55,866,983

65,959
1,542,582

occupied Palestinian territory

Iraq

80

Donor

SPECIALLY
DESIGNATED
CONTRIBUTIONS
BY ACTIVITIES
(US$) IN 2018

Specially designated contributions (SDCs) are earmarked by donors for humanitarian projects implemented by third parties (UN partners and NGOs). OCHA
channels income for such activities in the form of grants.
SDC activities are not included in OCHA’s budget, and
income towards SDCs is not counted in the OCHA total
donor income for OCHA’s activities.

1,932,870
166,635
68,361
308,450
6,578,961
131,389,446

Note: Unearmarked contributions in 2018 by income. The pledged amount was
US$130,152,987; when the donors finally made the payments, the cash amount was
US$131,389,446.

81

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS – BREAKDOWN OF TOP 20 DONOR EARMARKING (US$) IN 2018
OCHA Activities

Office

UNEARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
EARMARKED AND
SOFTLY EARMARKED
CONTRIBUTIONS
ONE-TIME COSTS1

United States

Sweden

United
Kingdom

Saudi Arabia

European
Commission

Norway

Germany

Qatar

Canada

3,500,000

21,961,446

29,662,677

9,000,000

-

10,958,237

2,982,932

10,000,000

1,431,639

47,837,000

15,221,295

5,405,152

12,600,000

16,735,668

4,144,147

11,562,644

-

8,007,796

3,163,000

500,483

1,579,672

-

231,481

-

-

-

-

-

7,014,809
1,221,105

Switzerland

Japan

Netherlands

Denmark

United Arab
Emirates

Belgium

Ireland

2,059,732

980,000

5,668,934

4,971,002

20,000

2,777,778

3,247,480

3,791,983

3,462,604

-

4,835,386

128,326,639

4,619,150

5,088,181

15,332

-

4,600,000

1,742,160

562,770

-

-

2,717,391

4,581,713

146,661,504

267,953

-

-

-

150,000

-

-

-

-

301,932

-

6,194,522

HEADQUARTERS
ACTIVITIES

13,010,000

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

1,770,020

-

-

FIELD

31,664,000

14,720,812

3,825,479

11,600,000

16,504,186

4,144,147

9,792,624

-

8,007,796

1,200,000

507,614

-

-

-

-

-

-

491,490

1,500,000

126,904

-

-

-

-

-

-

225,904

1,000,000

253,807

-

-

482,729

-

-

-

90,361

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

253,807

-

1,500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

1,000,000

507,614

-

-

-

255,692

-

-

97,892

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,200,000

1,649,746

-

1,500,000

482,729

255,692

-

-

905,646

1,065,220

-

1,138,181

-

-

-

-

-

REGIONAL OFFICES

Regional Office for Asia
and the Pacific
Regional Office for Latin
America and the Caribbean
Regional Office for Southern
and Eastern Africa
Regional Office for the
Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office for West and
Central Africa

Regional Offices Total

-

15,332

-

500,000

-

-

-

-

-

636,741

17,692,722

5,088,181

-

-

3,950,000

1,742,160

562,770

-

-

2,415,459

3,944,972

122,774,260

-

1,138,181

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

100,000

4,502,505

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

169,082

-

2,021,889

-

-

193,237

-

2,020,134

-

-

-

10,000

2,263,807

-

-

229,469

-

2,090,667

-

-

591,787

110,000

12,899,002

3,825,479

10,100,000

16,021,458

3,888,455

9,792,624

-

7,102,150

-

3,590,568

3,950,000

-

-

3,950,000

1,742,160

562,770

-

-

1,823,671

3,834,972

109,192,470

126,904

-

-

306,748

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

933,652

Cameroon

700,000

507,614

-

-

736,196

-

-

-

101,657

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,045,467

1,000,000

1,269,036

-

-

1,226,994

243,516

568,182

-

557,229

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

4,864,957

-

507,614

-

-

1,104,294

475,343

-

-

90,361

-

-

150,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,327,613

1,600,000

1,522,843

-

-

-

365,275

568,182

-

971,386

-

535,906

-

-

-

-

1,742,160

-

-

-

603,865

29,481

7,939,096

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

30,120

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

30,120

1,000,000

253,807

-

-

308,642

-

-

-

-

-

535,906

-

-

-

-

-

331,288

-

-

-

-

2,429,643

Mali

500,000

507,614

-

-

370,370

-

568,182

-

105,422

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

60,386

2,111,975

Niger2

300,000

507,614

-

-

368,098

463,167

-

-

75,301

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

585,480

2,299,661

Nigeria

2,000,000

507,614

-

-

1,226,994

-

1,148,902

-

466,867

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

362,319

-

5,712,696

Somalia

1,750,000

634,518

668,449

-

1,224,983

234,165

568,182

-

549,699

-

535,906

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

6,165,901

Eritrea
Ethiopia

South Sudan

3,000,000

634,518

-

-

1,098,554

585,412

568,182

-

579,819

-

535,906

600,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

568,828

8,171,218

Sudan

2,300,000

1,015,228

-

-

981,595

-

568,182

-

180,723

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

5,045,728

14,650,000

7,994,924

668,449

-

8,953,469

2,366,877

4,557,993

-

3,708,584

2,143,623

750,000

-

-

-

1,742,160

331,288

-

-

966,184

1,244,176

50,077,728

Myanmar

400,000

253,807

-

-

490,798

-

-

-

436,747

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

181,159

-

1,762,511

Office for the Pacific

400,000

126,904

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Philippines

250,000

126,904

-

-

-

-

-

-

165,663

650,000

380,711

-

-

490,798

-

-

-

602,410

300,000

126,904

-

-

174,216

121,758

-

-

-

300,000

126,904

-

-

174,216

121,758

-

-

-

267,953

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

22,590

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

214,000

126,904

-

-

362,319

-

-

-

128,012

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

214,000

126,904

-

-

362,319

-

-

-

150,602

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

350,000

1,015,228

-

-

580,720

182,637

-

-

-

-

-

200,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

350,000

-

-

1,000,000

380,711

-

-

589,623

-

1,161,440

-

373,692

-

-

1,000,000

-

-

-

-

-

500,000

761,421

-

-

370,370

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Africa Total

Asia and the
Pacific Total
Ukraine

Europe total
LATIN AMERICA AND THE
Venezuela support
CARIBBEAN
Haiti
Latin America and the
Caribbean Total
MIDDLE EAST, NORTHERN
Afghanistan
& CENTRAL ASIA
Gulf Office
Iraq
Libya
oPt
Pakistan
Syria3
Yemen operation
Yemen

GRAND TOTAL

760,629
3,590,568

12,944,162

Democratic Republic
of the Congo

Middle East, Northern &
Central Asia Total

-

GRAND TOTAL

500,000

Chad

EUROPE

1,065,220

Spain Other Donors

26,064,000

Central African Republic

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

1,221,105

Finland New Zealand

Burundi

COUNTRY OFFICES
AFRICA

4

155,885

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

682,788

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

72,464

-

615,030

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

253,623

-

2,377,541

267,953

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

633,043

1,623,874

-

-

633,043

1,623,874

-

-

-

22,590

-

84,541

200,000

1,115,776

-

84,541

200,000

1,138,366

-

-

362,319

235,502

2,926,406

-

-

-

-

350,000

-

-

-

481,159

4,986,625

-

-

157,005

60,386

1,849,183

-

-

-

507,614

-

-

987,654

-

1,169,591

-

392,773

-

535,906

300,000

-

-

-

-

231,481

-

-

-

-

4,125,019

900,000

380,711

1,111,111

-

370,370

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

2,762,192

4,500,000

1,269,036

657,030

-

810,916

852,307

-

-

1,121,076

-

643,087

1,500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

611,365

11,964,816

-

-

-

6,500,000

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

3,000,000

-

1,388,889

3,600,000

2,331,002

364,875

2,903,600

-

753,012

-

200,000

-

-

3,600,000

-

-

-

-

-

369,340

18,510,719

10,250,000

4,314,721

3,157,030

10,100,000

6,040,656

1,399,819

5,234,631

-

2,640,553

-

1,178,993

3,200,000

-

-

3,950,000

-

231,481

-

-

519,324

1,757,753

53,974,961

51,337,000

37,182,741

35,067,828

21,600,000

16,735,668

15,102,384

14,545,576

10,000,000

9,439,435

8,235,914

6,678,882

6,068,181

5,684,266

4,971,002

4,620,000

4,519,938

3,810,250

3,791,983

3,462,604

2,717,391

9,417,099

274,988,143

One-time costs includes costs for office downsizing/closures (Colombia, Liaison Offices, Regional Office for the Caucasus and Central Asia, Regional Office for Southern Africa); the Change
Management Unit; and other costs related to OCHA’s restructuring.

1

2

Australia

Contribution of $585,480 from “other donors” refers to a transfer from the Italian pre-positioned bilateral fund. This amount was recorded as income to Specially Designated Contributions.

3

Total for Syria includes funding to the following offices: Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, as well as funding to the Syria RHC.

4

Loosely earmarked to OCHA’s operations for Yemen response, 2018-2019.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

OCHA FINANCIAL STATUS AS OF 31 DECEMBER 2018 (US$)

OCHA-Mandated Programme and
Administrative Activities

CERF 2018 PLEDGED CONTRIBUTIONS (US$)¹

Programme
Activities (a) One-time costs (b)

CBPF Management
Units (c)

Total Trust Fund excluding
CBPF grants-out (a+b+c)

Administrative
Activities

Contributor
Regular Budget

Opening Balance - 1 Jan 2018

115,410,568

218,584

7,206,561

122,835,713

2018 Donor Contributions for
Programme Activities1

268,793,621

6,194,522

8,524,447

283,512,590

2018 Income for Administrative
Activities (Transfer of Programme
Support Charges)2

-

-

-

-

2018 Allocation for Regular Budget

-

-

-

-

Available Funds

384,204,189

6,413,106

15,731,008

406,348,303

37,283,856

17,596,000

Transfer of Programme Support
Charges (PSC)

-15,535,618

-459,153

-1,214,621

-17,209,392

-

-

-226,439,566

-6,569,290

-17,351,730

-250,360,586

-29,925,961

-16,714,196

Direct Expenditure3
Total Expenditure Charged against4
Net Available Funds before Other Income,
adjustments, transfers, refunds
Other income, adjustments,
transfers, refunds
Closing Balance5
Increase / (Decrease) in opening balance
AVAILABLE BALANCE FOR SPENDING

Algeria

10,000

Andorra

17,735

Armenia

5,000

Australia

8,184,524

Azerbaijan

37,283,856

Bangladesh
Belgium
17,596,000

-241,975,184

-7,028,443

-18,566,351

-267,569,978

-29,925,961

-16,714,196

142,229,006

-615,338

-2,835,343

138,778,325

7,357,895

881,804

11,551,645

1,026,868

6,538,812

19,117,325

-

-

153,780,651

411,531

3,703,469

157,895,650

-

-

38,370,083

192,947

-3,503,092

35,059,937

-

-

153,780,651

411,531

3,703,469

157,895,650

-

US$

MEMBER STATES AND OBSERVERS

10,000
13,572,204

Bhutan

1,500

Bulgaria

20,000

Canada

22,528,736

Chile

30,000

China

500,000

Côte d'Ivoire
Czech Republic
Denmark

10,000
177,470
21,618,968

Estonia

116,144

Finland

8,641,975

Germany

110,199,651

Guyana

2,179

Iceland

465,030

Indonesia

220,000

Iraq
-

20,000

Ireland

10,000
14,253,735

Italy

2,962,085

Japan

1,360,714

Kazakhstan

50,000

1

For programme activities, includes paid contributions and unpaid pledges US$4.1 million.

Korea

4,000,000

2

Transfer of PSC for Administrative Activities, includes PSC levied from programme activities, CBPFs, and Specially Designated Contributions.

Kuwait

1,000,000

3

Includes disbursements and unliquidated obligations as of 31 December 2018.

For programme activities, expenditure charged against budget is the direct programme expenditure plus programme support transfers. For administrative and regular budget activities, it is the
direct expenditure only.
4

5

As of June 2015, PSC balances have been consolidated under one single PSC account for all Volume 1 entities under the Central Control of the UN Controller.

Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg

212,993
22,727
4,942,469

Monaco

123,457

Mongolia

10,000

Myanmar
Netherlands
New Zealand
Norway
Philippines
Portugal

10,000
67,901,235
2,201,027
54,445,519
50,000
116,144

Qatar

1,000,000

Russian Federation

1,500,000

Saudi Arabia
Singapore
Slovakia
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sweden
Switzerland
Thailand
Turkey
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
Total, Member States and observers

150,000
50,000
34,365
3,488,382
5,000
88,197,970
6,239,618
20,000
400,000
1,500,000
114,574,091
557,182,647

REGIONAL AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES
Belgian Government of Flanders
Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation
Total, Regional and local authorities

710,900
291,375
1,002,275

OTHERS
Al Jisr Foundation
Private donations through UN Foundation (under $10,000)
World Mission Society Church of God
Total, Others
GRAND TOTAL

250,000
41,524
100,000
391,524
558,576,446

¹ Contributions are based on the pledged year of the donors and differ from the amount reported as revenue as per International Public Sector Accounting Standards.
Actual received contributions may differ from the originally recorded pledges, due to fluctuations in exchange rates.

84

85

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Annexes

Annexes

Donor profiles
Unearmarked contributions
Earmarked contributions, including
softly earmarked contributions

ODSG 2. SWEDEN
60 million USD

40

2016

2017

ODSG
59.7% unearmarked
Contribution:
$37,182,741
15.6% of total OCHA
donor income

50

2018

350 million Krona
300
250
200

2016

2017

35 million GBP

41.7% unearmarked
Contribution:
$21,600,000
9% of total OCHA
donor income

30
25
2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $137,488,127
(GBP 103,908,020 )

ODSG
20 million USD
10
0

2016

2017

20 million Euro

2016

2017

2018

130 million Krone
120
110
100

2016

2017

2018

7. GERMANY

ODSG

ODSG 8. QATAR
20 million Euro

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
$10,000,000
4.2% of total OCHA
donor income

15
10
5

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $110,046,660
(EUR 96,100,000)

9. CANADA

10 million USD
5
0

2016

2017

15 million CAD

85.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
$8,235,914
3.5% of total OCHA
donor income

10
5

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $10,218,433
(CAD 13,250,000)

2017

2018

ODSG
11 million AUD
10
9

2016

2017

5

2016

2018

ODSG

2017

2018

16.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
$6,068,181
2.5% of total OCHA
donor income

10.0 million USD
7.5
5.0

2016

30

2016

2017

ODSG 16. BELGIUM
5.0 million USD

61.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$4,519,938
1.9% of total OCHA
donor income

2.5
0.0

2016

2017

17. IRELAND
85.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
$3,810,250
1.6% of total OCHA
donor income

40

2018

ODSG
10.0 million Euro
7.5
5.0
2.5

2016

2017

7.5 million Euro

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$3,791,983
1.6% of total OCHA
donor income

5.0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $32,899,721
(EUR 28,917,482)

ODSG 18. FINLAND

2.5

2018

2018

ODSG
4.0 million Euro
3.5
3.0

2016

2017

2018

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$3,462,604
1.5% of total OCHA
donor income

6 million NZD

4

2016

2017

2018

3 million Euro
2
1
0

2016

2017

ODSG

ODSG 22. FRANCE
2 million USD
1
0

2016

2017

2018

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,207,729
0.5% of total OCHA
donor income

2 million Euro
1
0

2016

2017

1.0 million Euro
0.5

2016

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $6,602,136
(EUR 5,720,000)

ODSG

ODSG 24. RUSSIAN FEDERATION

0.0

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $2,536,232
(EUR 2,100,000)

23. LUXEMBOURG
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,005,442
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$2,717,391
1.1% of total OCHA
donor income

5

21. REPUBLIC OF KOREA
58.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,700,000
0.7% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

ODSG 20. SPAIN

19. NEW ZEALAND

2017

2018

50.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$1,000,000
0.4% of total OCHA
donor income

1.5 million USD
1.0
0.5

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $1,851,852
(EUR 1,500,000)

ODSG 12. JAPAN
10 million CHF

15. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES
0.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
$4,620,000
1.9% of total OCHA
donor income

50 million Krone

Specially designated contributions: a total of $23,076,369
(DKK 145,000,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of US$2,300,00

Specially designated contributions: a total of $10,453,077
(AUD 13,750,000)

11. SWITZERLAND

0

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $2,472,904

ODSG 10. AUSTRALIA

30.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
$6,678,882
2.8% of total OCHA
donor income

2016

Specially designated contributions: a total of $665,336
(NZD 1,000,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of $26,189,179
(NOK 216,500,000)

15.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
$9,439,435
4% of total OCHA
donor income

5.0

100% unearmarked
Contribution:
$4,971,002
2.1% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

Specially designated contributions: a total of $27,748,281
(EUR 23,130,000)

ODSG
72.6% unearmarked
Contribution:
$15,102,384
6.3% of total OCHA
donor income

15
10

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $461,400,000

ODSG 6. NORWAY

5. EUROPEAN COMMISSION

20.5% unearmarked
Contribution:
$14,545,576
6.1% of total OCHA
donor income

7.5 million Euro

Specially designated contributions: a total of $461,400,000

ODSG 4. SAUDI ARABIA

20

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $41,517,839
(SEK 338,000,000)

3. UNITED KINGDOM

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$16,735,668
7% of total OCHA
donor income

Member of OCHA Donor Support Group

99.7% unearmarked
Contribution:
$5,684,266
2.4% of total OCHA
donor income

Specially designated contributions: a total of $55,866,983
(EUR 47,044,750)

Specially designated contributions: a total of $35,925,000

89.1% unearmarked
Contribution:
$35,067,828
14.7% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG

OCHA contribution trend

1. UNITED STATES
6.8% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$ 51,337,000
21.5% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG 14 . DENMARK

13. NETHERLANDS

2017

2018

25. AUSTRIA
15.3% unearmarked
Contribution:
US$671,217
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG 26. ESTONIA
1.0 million Euro
0.5
0.0

2016

2017

2018

28.4% unearmarked
Contribution:
$632,110
0.3% of total OCHA
donor income

ODSG
1.0 million Euro
0.5
0.0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $14,652,921
(CHF 14,492,644)

86

87

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Annexes

ODSG 28. POLAND

27. ITALY1
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$585,480
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

1.5 million Euro

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$519,736
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

1.0
0.5
0.0

2016

2017

ODSG

2018

2.5 million Euro
2.0
1.5

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $3,490,257
(EUR 3,000,000)

ODSG 30. KAZAKHSTAN

29. TURKEY
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$500,000
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

1.0 million USD
0.5
0.0

2016

2017

2018

500 thousand USD
250
0

2016

2017

2018

32. BULGARIA

31. ICELAND
68.2% unearmarked
Contribution:
$314,335
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$410,000
0.2% of total OCHA
donor income

400 thousand USD

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$267,140
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

300
200
100

2016

2017

2018

250 thousand Euro
125
0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $1,000,838

33. KUWAIT

34. ROMANIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$250,000
0.1% of total OCHA
donor income

250 thousand USD

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$60,386
0.03% of total OCHA
donor income

125
0

2016

2017

2018

100 thousand Euro
50
0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $5,100,000

36. MONACO

35. SLOVAKIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$38,680
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

500 thousand Euro
250
0

2016

2017

2018

100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$35,842
0.02% of total OCHA
donor income

50 thousand Euro

0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$29,481
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

200 thousand Euro

25
0

2016

2017

2018

38. MALTA

37. CHINA
100.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$30,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

50 thousand USD
25
0

2016

2017

2018

100
0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $65,899
(EUR 55,000)

Specially designated contributions: a total of $50,000

39. LATVIA
0.0% unearmarked
Contribution:
$30,000
0.01% of total OCHA
donor income

25 thousand USD

0

2016

2017

2018

Specially designated contributions: a total of $28,409
(EUR 25,000)
Transfers from Italy’s pre-positioned fund of $1,133,787 to the Syria ofﬁce in 2016 and of $500,000 to the Niger ofﬁce in 2018 are recorded as income to specially
designated contributions.

1

88

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Annexes

unocha.org
reliefweb.int
@unocha | @UNReliefChief
facebook.com/UNOCHA

90

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

