evaluation
2016 Annual Report

Independent Evaluation Office
United Nations Development Programme

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

evaluation
2016 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

IEO REPORT TEAM & CONTRIBUTORS
Director
Indran A. Naidoo
Deputy Director
Arild Hauge
Project Manager
Richard Jones
Contributors
Heather Bryant, Alan Fox, Sasha Jahic,
Deqa Musa, Oanh Nguyen, Fumika Ouchi,
Anish Pradhan, Ximena Rios, Roberto
La Rovere, Ana Rosa Monteiro Soares,
Vijayalakshmi Vadivelu, Yogesh Bhatt,
Claudia Villanueva and Jin Zhang
Associated Funds and Programmes Contributors
Andrew Fyfe (UNCDF) and
Gelfiya Schienko (UNV)
Production and Outreach
Sasha Jahic

ANNUAL REPORT ON EVALUATION 2016
© UNDP June 2017
Manufactured in the United States of America.
Printed on recycled paper.
ISBN 978-92-1-126421-0
eISBN 978-92-1-060060-6
Permission to reproduce any part of this
publication is required. Please contact:
ieo@undp.org.
Suggested citation:
Annual Report on Evaluation 2016, Independent
Evaluation Office of UNDP, New York, June 2017.
Independent Evaluation Office
United Nations Development Programme
220 E42nd Street, 20th Floor
New York, NY 10017, USA
Tel. +1(646) 781-4200
Fax. +1(646) 781-4213
Connect with us:
www

www.undp.org/evaluation
/UNDP_Evaluation
/ieoundp
/evaluationoffice

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Photo Credits

Acronyms

Page 6: UNDP Cameroon

ADR 		

Assessment of development results

Page 10: UNDP Morocco/Hassan Chabbi

CIS		

Commonwealth of Independent States

Page 18: UNDP Viet Nam/Shutterstock

GEF 		

Global Environment Facility

Page 22: UNDP Somalia

IEO 		

Independent Evaluation Office of UNDP

Page 29: UNDP Zimbabwe
Page 31: UNV/Juan Diego Pérez Arias

ICPE		
	

Independent country programme evaluations
(previously known as ADRs)

Page 32: UNCDF/Creative7Arts

M&E 		

Monitoring and evaluation

Page 33: UNDP Kyrgyz Republic

SDGs 		

Sustainable Development Goals

UNCDF 		

United Nations Capital Development Fund

UNDAF 		

United Nations Development Assistance Framework

UNDP 		

United Nations Development Programme

UNEG 		

United Nations Evaluation Group

UNICEF 		

United Nations Children’s Fund

UNV 		

United Nations Volunteers

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

1

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Foreword
As President of the Executive Board of the
United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), I am pleased to introduce the 2016
Annual Report on Evaluation, directly
submitted to the Executive Board under
the Evaluation Policy provisions on independence. The report summarizes the
work of UNDP’s Independent Evaluation
Office (IEO) in 2016.
The IEO plays an essential role in advancing evaluation within the
United Nations System. During the past year, it has engaged with
key stakeholders, governments, donors, partners and the evaluation
community across the globe to share expertise, findings and recommendations. All activities are geared towards ensuring the highest
standards of oversight, transparency, learning and accountability.
I am pleased to note the weight accorded to independent evaluations
at UNDP, the high-quality management responses, and the productive
discussions taking place both at the Executive Board and at the country
level. This attests to the strong importance given to learning from experience, and using findings from evaluations to adjust programmes and
improve prospects for organizational success. The explicit endorsement of independent evaluation by United Nations Member States, as
embodied in the adoption of the new Evaluation Policy in September
2016, indicates how seriously we take this function.

2

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

This report reflects some milestones in evaluation policy and practice.
The newly established Audit and Evaluation Advisory Committee
will bring together, under one umbrella, the UNDP oversight offices
of Ethics, Audit and Investigations, and Independent Evaluation, fostering greater synergies. This mechanism will further complement the
IEO’s Evaluation Advisory Panel, which has helped the IEO become
one of the lead international evaluation offices. I envision the IEO will
continue supporting the growth of evaluation capacity across UNDP,
and look forward to it engaging in a more comprehensive quality
assessment of decentralized evaluations.
In 2017, UNDP will adopt a new Strategic Plan, creating a platform for
the organization to assist Member States in implementing the 2030
Agenda. I am confident that evaluation will be instrumental in shaping
UNDP’s many contributions to realizing the high aspirations of the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Ib Petersen
Permanent Representative
Permanent Mission of Denmark to the United Nations
President of the UNDP Executive Board

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Preface
It gives me great pleasure to present the
2016 Annual Report on Evaluation to the
President of the UNDP Executive Board,
His Excellency Ambassador Ib Peterson.
This report reflects on some fundamental
changes made since 2012, summarizes
2016 outputs and activities, and tables a
programme of work for 2017.
Developing an independent and credible
evaluation function in UNDP has been a long journey. A major milestone in 2016 was the adoption of a new Evaluation Policy. For the first
time, it sets a financial resource target for the evaluation function,
which is critical to upholding the IEO’s independence. Independence
is the foundation of the IEO’s credibility and impartiality in conducting
assessments to inform UNDP policy and operations.
Another major achievement, which offered stewardship for the global
evaluation community and the IEO, was the adoption of the revised
United Nations Evaluation Group (UNEG) Norms and Standards for
Evaluation. This will help to ensure that the diverse approaches and
capacities of evaluation offices within the United Nations move towards
a standard like that of UNDP, as the basis for a robust, transparent and
accountable oversight system. It is time for the principles of independence, credibility and utility to be applied evenly across the UNEG.
The new UNDP Evaluation Policy goes further in operationalizing the
principle of the IEO’s independence with the establishment of the Audit
and Evaluation Advisory Committee. It oversees the work of the IEO
and its Director, and advises the Executive Board and UNDP Administrator. Also, embedded in the new Evaluation Policy is the Evaluation
Advisory Panel, now in its fourth year of operation, which brings in
practical expertise and guidance for all IEO work.

An innovative exercise in 2016 was the joint audit and evaluation of
UNDP’s institutional effectiveness, a first on many levels. It provides
a timely and comprehensive assessment of how effective and efficient
UNDP was in achieving results. The positive reaction to this exercise
bodes well for further collaboration between UNDP’s audit and evaluation offices to produce synergistic assessments of work at the global
and country levels. The IEO also presented two important thematic
evaluations: the assessment of UNDP’s work on disability-inclusive
development and on anti-corruption, both of which spurred internal
and global stakeholder debate.
After a period of reflection, the IEO restarted its quality assessment work for decentralized evaluations with more comprehensive
instruments and collaboration with UNDP to help build learning and
accountability. Either completed or in progress are 12 independent
country programme evaluation. Looking ahead, we intend a further,
comprehensive revision of the country level evaluation system to
ensure full coverage.
I wish to thank the IEO team for its dedication, recognizing that the
professional evaluation model, while rewarding and enriching, is an
exacting one. I also wish to thank UNDP management and staff for
facilitating evaluations, members of the Executive Board for their guidance and support, and stakeholders for maintaining the demand for
independent evaluation to inform their constituencies. I wish to thank
members of both the AEAC and the EAP for their constructive engagements with the IEO.

Indran A. Naidoo
Director
Independent Evaluation Office, UNDP
Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

table of contents
chapter two:
Highlights in 2016
Acronyms1
Foreword2
Preface3

chapter one:

A Strengthened Foundation
for Evaluation

6
A new Evaluation Policy at UNDP
The Audit and Evaluation Advisory Committee
The International Evaluation Advisory Panel
The IEO Charter
Evaluation architecture

10
UNDP contribution to anti-corruption
and addressing the drivers of corruption
Disability-inclusive development at UNDP
A joint assessment of UNDP’s
institutional effectiveness
Ongoing evaluation of the UNDP Strategic Plan
2014-2017, global and regional programmes
Independent country programme evaluations
in 2016 and beyond

chapter three:

Advancing Evaluation Practices
and Awareness

18
The United Nations Evaluation Group
Global platforms to share evaluation expertise
Communications and outreach

4

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

chapter four:

Decentralized Evaluations

22
Building decentralized
evaluation capacities
Decentralized evaluation planning
and budgeting
Assessing the quality of
decentralized evaluations
Decentralized Evaluation Implementation
The Evaluation Resource Centre

chapter five:

Finances and Staffing

29

chapter six:

Engagement with the UNCDF and UNV

31

annexes

37
Annex 1. Snapshot of implementation,
budgets and quality, 2013 to 2016

chapter seven:

Looking Forward: Plans for 2017

33
Thematic evaluations
Status of implementation of
IEO recommendations

Annex 2. Global monitoring and
evaluation capacity, 2013 to 2016
Annex 3. Regional monitoring and
evaluation capacity, 2013 to 2016
Annex 4. 2 016 average budgets for evaluations
(country offices)
Annex 5. Members and key activities of
the Evaluation Advisory Panel in 2016

Endnotes47

Future independent country
programme evaluations
Decentralized evaluation assessment
and support
National evaluation capacity
Costed programme of work in 2017

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

chapter

6

1

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

A Strengthened Foundation for Evaluation
This Annual Report on Evaluation highlights key initiatives of the
Independent Evaluation Office of UNDP in 2016. It summarizes progress
in deepening evaluation expertise and the application of core evaluation
principles such as independence, credibility and utility.
Providing a forward-looking view, the report
notes that reform of the United Nations,
UNDP and the IEO is ongoing. Newly
appointed United Nations Secretary-General
Antonio Guterres in 2016 stressed a renewed
focus on evaluation as a tool of accountability requiring “effective and independent
evaluation mechanisms” throughout the
UN system.1
As the custodian of the UNDP Evaluation
Policy, and in line with its obligations to the
UNDP Executive Board, the IEO reports annually on its work. It also assesses decentralized
evaluations carried out by UNDP programme
and policy units.

A new Evaluation Policy
at UNDP
In September 2016, after two years of review,
UNDP’s Executive Board adopted a new Evaluation Policy to advance evaluation at UNDP.

The policy establishes core principles, clarifies roles and responsibilities, and makes
clear links to the United Nations Evaluation
Group (UNEG) Norms and Standards for
Evaluation. Its foundational commitment is to
the preeminence of independent evaluation
as an input to corporate decision-making,
including through the operational independence of the IEO within UNDP.
The policy sets explicit benchmarks for financial resources for evaluation, earmarking
1 percent of combined UNDP core and noncore funds, with a minimum of 0.2  percent
set aside for the work of the IEO. In 2016,
IEO expenditure was US $8.49 million,
falling short of the 0.2 percent minimum
by $600,000.

The purpose and scope of the policy
The 2016 Evaluation Policy applies to independent evaluation at all levels, helping to ensure it is
accountable and learning oriented. Independent evaluations by the IEO, decentralized evaluations and
evaluations by the United Nations Volunteers (UNV) and the United Nations Capital Development Fund
(UNCDF) are all guided by the policy, which also covers UNDP and IEO support to increased national
evaluation capacity.
The evaluation policy is aligned with the overall mandates of UNDP and its associated programmes
and funds, and with the Charter of the United Nations and its objectives. Its core principles stem from
United Nations General Assembly resolutions, UNDP Executive Board decisions, and the UNEG Norms
and Standards for Evaluation.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

The Audit and Evaluation
Advisory Committee

The International
Evaluation Advisory Panel

Under the new Evaluation Policy, the UNDP
Audit Advisory Committee has expanded to
include evaluation oversight functions and
is now constituted as the Audit and Evaluation Advisory Committee. This reformulation
has helped to harmonize the evaluation,
audit and investigations, and ethics functions, promoting synergies among all UNDP
oversight offices.

The new Evaluation Policy further cements the
role and structure of the International Evaluation Advisory Panel. It now has 12 members
who come from all regions, ensuring global
coverage, knowledge and perspectives.

The committee oversees adherence to the
Evaluation Policy, and advises the UNDP
Administrator and Director of the IEO on their
responsibilities under it. Members are also
charged with the appointment of the Director,
and the approval and implementation of the
IEO’s multiyear work plan and budgets.
Committee meetings in 2016 were highly
productive, giving strong direction to the
IEO. At a first meeting in November 2016,
the committee appointed two expert members who are globally recognized for their
evaluation expertise. They provide guidance
on specific aspects of evaluation policy and
practice, bring an evaluation perspective to
their review of the IEO and contribute to other
oversight issues.

8

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Panel members provide methodological
guidance and expert reviews of individual
evaluation reports and other products. In
2016, the panel supported and gave advice to
newly established IEO committees oriented
around independent country programme
evaluations, headquarters and corporate
evaluations, and evaluation capacity development, including quality assurance. The
panel also contributed to IEO strategizing
through 35 advisory sessions with IEO staff.
It supported the development of national
evaluation capacities in the new era of the
SDGs, the reestablishment of the quality
assessment process, and reviews of thematic and independent country programme
evaluations.

The IEO Charter
Further to the adoption of the new Evaluation
Policy in 2016, and planned changes to the
IEO’s evaluation approach and reporting to

the UNDP Executive Board, the office is formulating a charter defining clear principles
and practices for engaging with UNDP
business units subject to independent evaluations. This initiative builds from experience
in 2016 where the IEO shared an aide memoire with country offices when launching the
evaluation process. The charter is intended
to be comprehensive in setting the framework for collaborative, efficient and useful
independent evaluations, in full accordance
with the revised Evaluation Policy.

Evaluation architecture
The continued evolution of the IEO and of
evaluation as a core function at UNDP has
required strategic changes at multiple levels.
These include the establishment of the International Evaluation Advisory Panel in 2014,
the creation of the Audit and Evaluation Advisory Committee in 2016, the incorporation of
the revised UNEG Norms and Standards for
Evaluation in 2016 and a dedicated budget for
evaluation. The IEO has expanded engagement with all partners and stakeholders
throughout the evaluation process, which
now aligns closely with the new emphasis in
the Evaluation Policy on learning, transparency and accountability.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Contributing to accountability and learning
UNDP
Executive
Board

The UNDP Executive Board is the custodian of the Evaluation Policy. It approves the policy and considers annual reports on implementation;
ensures the independence of the evaluation function; uses and draws on evaluation findings for oversight of corporate policies, strategies
and programmes; requires management responses to all evaluations, and reviews and approves those for independent evaluations; and
periodically requests the IEO to commission independent reviews of the Evaluation Policy.

IEO

The IEO is an independent unit that each year reports directly to the Executive Board on evaluation functions, compliance, coverage, quality,
findings and follow-up. It conducts evaluations on themes and programmes at the country, regional and global levels.

UNDP
Administrator

The UNDP Administrator is accountable for corporate results, and safeguards the integrity and independence of the evaluation function.
His/her role also includes ensuring that senior management responds to and applies evaluation findings, and that relevant units follow up
on recommendations.

UNDP
Programme and
Policy Units

UNDP programme and policy units conduct monitoring, evaluate programme performance and manage findings. The results feed into independent evaluations.

Evaluation
Units
of UNCDF
and UNV

The evaluation units of UNCDF and UNV conduct evaluations in their organizations, and contribute to the IEO’s development of common
evaluation quality standards and guidelines.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

chapter

10

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

2

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Highlights in 2016
Since 2012, the IEO has implemented 14 thematic evaluations derived
from the UNDP Strategic Framework, bringing a crucial perspective to
understanding organizational performance at a policy and strategy level.
Debates that accompany these evaluations at the UNDP Executive Board
and other forums indicate interest in their focus and confidence in the
organization to deliver on its plans. The IEO has significantly refined its
methodologies for thematic evaluations to include more engagement with
UNDP business units and stakeholders, increased sample sizes and
dedicated attention to making reports more accessible. Illustrated

Thematic evaluations continued the use
of robust methodologies and consultative
processes, while retaining an independent
approach. Conducting them entailed engagements with 131 country offices, regional
bureau consultations, desk reviews, a
meta-synthesis of over 180 evaluations
(including IEO independent country programme evaluations), an analysis of 10 UNDP
corporate surveys and implementation of
five IEO surveys, and over 900 interviews.
Findings, conclusions and recommendations
were welcomed by UNDP with detailed management responses and planned key actions
to improve support in each thematic area.

summaries and videos that accompany the main reports have proven
successful in communicating major findings and recommendations to a
range of audiences, strengthening adoption and overall impact.

In 2016, the IEO carried out three thematic
evaluations and has one underway, all of
which were presented to the Executive
Board in 2016 and 2017 for discussion and
decisions. The three concluded thematic evaluations comprise an evaluation of UNDP’s
contribution to anti-corruption efforts and
addressing the drivers of corruption, an

evaluation of disability-inclusive development at UNDP and a joint evaluation with the
UNDP Audit Office of UNDP’s institutional
effectiveness. Papers outlining findings, conclusions and recommendations have been
submitted to the Executive Board, and each
evaluation has received a detailed management response.

Thematic evaluations
in 2016 were built on
engagements with 131
country offices, regional
bureau consultations, desk
reviews, a meta-synthesis
of over 180 evaluations and
over 900 interviews.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

11

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

meta-synthesis of 110 evaluations and 65
country programmes. A robust methodological approach also included 350 interviews
with development actors.

Summary of interviews/desk reviews for thematic evaluations

Country/regional
consultations and
desk reviews

Interviews and
focus groups

Meta-synthesis
of evaluations

Analysis of surveys

Anti-corruption

65

350

110

0

Disability-inclusive
development

11

335

0

1

Institutional
effectiveness

55

231

73

9

Total

131

916

183

10

EVALUATION
OF UNDP CONTRIBUTION TO

ANTI-CORRUPTION AND
ADDRESSING DRIVERS OF CORRUPTION

Independent Evaluation Office
United Nations Development Programme

UNDP
contribution to
anti-corruption
and addressing
the drivers
of corruption

Addressing links among governance, corruption and development is critical for
development progress. Given the negative impacts of corruption in many nations,
and the important need for UNDP to

12

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

incorporate anti-corruption, accountability
and transparency in its governance and
overall development work, the IEO undertook an evaluation of UNDP anti-corruption
assistance and efforts to address drivers of
corruption. The evaluation assessed UNDP
contributions from 2008 to 2015, covering the
last Strategic Plan 2008-2013 and the current
Strategic Plan 2014- 2017.
The evaluation gathered data from 65
country offices, regional bureau consultations and case studies as well as from a

The evaluation found that UNDP corporate
programme frameworks recognize anti-corruption as key to accelerating sustainable
development. While it supports specific
anti-corruption initiatives, UNDP has focused
more on addressing the drivers of corruption,
particularly demand-side accountability. It
has developed a unique niche in assisting
efforts to address corruption drivers and to
strengthen national anti-corruption capacities. Simultaneously pursuing anti-corruption
and accountability initiatives has allowed
UNDP to work at multiple levels.
Standalone anti-corruption work targeted
solely at anti-corruption agencies was found
to have a limited impact. While UNDP contributions have been important for enhancing
anti-corruption policies and capacities, actual
outcomes have been dependent on broader
governance capacities. Evolving governance
systems and processes and inadequate judicial capacities have reduced impacts in some
cases. Without core accountability processes
and capacities in public administration, even
strong anti-corruption enforcement institutions may make little headway.

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

The evaluation reaffirmed governance, corruption and development links. Countries
and international development agencies
have made efforts to improve governance
through various reforms, and to reduce the
abuse of public positions and resources
meant for development. Such efforts had
varying levels of success in reducing corruption and enhancing accountability and
transparency, however. At UNDP, a lack of
synergies between governance programmes
and other development and anti-corruption
initiatives reduced overall outcomes.
The evaluation recommended that to enhance
its abilities to help address the links between
development and corruption, UNDP should
develop an anti-corruption strategy that
explicitly connects these efforts to its governance and development programmes, and its
support to countries in attaining the SDGs.
Greater efforts should be made to use development programme areas as entry points to
further promote sectoral anti-corruption and
accountability measures, including in current
programmes. The evaluation emphasized
that all anti-corruption support efforts at the
global, regional and country levels should
address gender-related aspects, as this continues to be a weak area of UNDP support.

Given the significant contributions UNDP
makes to advancing national and local
demand-side accountability, the evaluation suggested that the organization should
increase support for local initiatives, particularly concerning access to information and
social accountability. It recommended as well
that UNDP prioritize support to anti-corruption and governance risk assessments and
measurements.

EVALUATION
OF DISABILITY

INCLUSIVE DEVELOPMENT AT UNDP

UNDP
support for
disabilityinclusive
development

The passage in 2006
of the Convention
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
enshrined a global commitment to promote
the rights and advancement of persons with
disabilities. This commitment places an onus
on organizations like UNDP to coherently,
adequately and systematically include persons with disabilities in their work. An IEO
evaluation reviewed UNDP support for disability-inclusive development between 2008
and 2016, including under the current Strategic Plan and since the Convention has been
in force. As part of the evaluation, a survey of
all 132 UNDP country programmes helped in
Independent Evaluation Office
United Nations Development Programme

preparing a global portfolio of disability-inclusive programmes and projects. Eleven
country office visits and 335 interviews supported the assessment.
The evaluation found a clear strategic fit
for UNDP in supporting government efforts
to promote the rights of persons with disabilities. UNDP has effectively supported
disability work where there was national
ownership and leadership on the issue, but
is not widely regarded as a major advocate
of or provider of technical assistance for
disability-inclusive development. It has not
fully leveraged its role as a trusted convener,
knowledge broker, technical adviser and
facilitator of dialogue among government,
civil society and national human rights institutions in support of the Convention, thus
limiting its potential impact.
In considering UNDP’s internal culture and
procedures, the evaluation found that UNDP
should be a more welcoming organization
for persons with disabilities. While it has
taken some positive steps, such as formulating a diversity and inclusiveness strategy,
attention to implementing this strategy has
been sporadic and ineffectual. Conditions of
recruitment, hiring and employment present
barriers for persons with disabilities. UNDP
has not taken the necessary steps to ensure
that its facilities are accessible.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

UNDP still needs to
find the right balance
between compliance for
reporting and learning
for improved results.

JOINT ASSESSMENT
OF THE INSTITUTIONAL
EFFECTIVENESS OF UNDP

A joint
assessment
of UNDP’s
institutional
effectiveness

In 2016, the IEO took
an important step
in strengthening its joint evaluation work
through its first evaluation partnership with
the UNDP Office of Audit and Investigations.
The joint evaluation assessed the extent to
which UNDP policy and organizational measures, including the recent restructuring
process, have enhanced or have the potential
to enhance the organization’s ability to deliver
higher quality programmes and improve
institutional effectiveness. The assessment
covered relevant activities undertaken by
UNDP from 2010 to 2015, emphasizing initiatives supporting the Strategic Plan 2014-2017.
Independent Evaluation Office
and Office of Audit and Investigations

The evaluation recommended giving greater
prominence to disability-inclusive development in the upcoming UNDP Strategic Plan
in line with the SDGs. A well-conceived and
executed UN partnership on the rights of
persons with disabilities should be strengthened and additional resources mobilized.
Revision of the UNDP diversity and inclusiveness strategy should make clear that the
organization will adequately support staff
with disabilities in all phases of employment
and through sufficient financial resources for
workplace accommodation. An accessibility
audit of UNDP premises and work could
identify existing barriers to inclusion and
practical steps that can be taken to eliminate
them, with timelines and a date by which all
premises are to be accessible.

14

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Built on consultations with over 50 country
offices and regional hubs, 73 meta-syntheses of evaluations, and 231 focus group
and individual interviews, the assessment
considered the early stage of some reforms.
It recognized that it may be too soon to fully
identify all potential results, and therefore
aimed to enhance organizational learning by
identifying opportunities for improvement.

Key findings indicated that UNDP programmes show improved alignment with
the priorities of the Strategic Plan and an
uptake of the SDGs, but for the most part fail
to reflect the strategic comparative advantage of UNDP. Restructuring changes aimed
at strengthening the regional presence and
consolidating policy functions contributed
to a clearer division of roles, responsibilities
and accountabilities, but to varying degrees
across the different regions. The sustainability of these changes is uncertain, given
the lack of resources to staff regional hubs
and for country offices to pay for regional
services.
Results-based management continues to
be associated more with compliance-driven
practices to satisfy reporting requirements,
with a limited focus on learning from evidence to enhance decision-making and
performance. UNDP still needs to find
the right balance between compliance for
reporting and learning for improved results.
The assessment concluded that there are
signs of improvement in the quality of programmes and that organizational measures
such as the structural review have clarified
some roles and responsibilities between
the regional level and headquarters. It is not
possible to conclude that new measures have
significant and sustainable effects on the
quality of programmes, however, or carry the

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

potential for success. UNDP is in the midst of
change, and the sustainability of measures to
increase institutional effectiveness through
new organizational and programmatic
measures might be at risk due to a lack of
resources and sustainable funding models.
Without additional efforts and targeted
investments to strengthen capacities, programmatic and organizational measures will
likely not be fully implemented, weakening
their support for significantly enhancing the
quality of programmes and improving institutional effectiveness in a sustainable manner.
The assessment recommended that UNDP
country offices should adequately identify the comparative advantage and value
added of the organization in programmes.
The concept of a theory of change needs to
be fully understood and practised. UNDP
should assess the costs of implementing the
new programme and project quality assurance system to determine whether resource
requirements of the reformed system can be
sustainably met, and if so, how. Based on
the available budget, UNDP should prioritize quality elements that all country offices
need to fully uphold, and should reassess
the financial sustainability of the regional
service centres/hubs model. Greater resultsbased management expertise should be
developed, with improved focus on learning,
shifting the focus from proving results to

improving results. Further, UNDP leadership
should prioritize investment in knowledge
management.

Ongoing evaluation of the
UNDP Strategic Plan 20142017, global and regional
programmes
An evaluation of the UNDP Strategic Plan
2014-2017 with a focus on global and regional
programmes started in 2016 and is expected
to conclude in 2017. It is part of the IEO
medium-term plan (DP/2014/5) approved by
the Executive Board in January 2014. The
evaluation is designed to assess the contributions of regional and global programming
to the intended development results of the
Strategic Plan, and to consider institutional
mechanisms used by UNDP to facilitate programming. It looks at cross-cutting aspects,
including UNDP’s contributions to SouthSouth and triangular cooperation, and the
promotion of gender equality and women’s
empowerment.
The IEO evaluated the previous UNDP Strategic Plan (2008-2013) in 2010, reviewing all
regions, levels of South-South cooperation
and overall implementation. The current evaluation has taken a more focused approach
and will produce just one evaluation report.

The methodology remains robust and fully
cooperative, with over 70 country offices,
regional bureaux and global centres visited,
a meta-synthesis of 100 reports and evaluations, and over 900 interviews. The evaluation
will provide actionable recommendations to
UNDP and the Executive Board for consideration and inclusion in the next Strategic Plan.

Independent country
programme evaluations
in 2016 and beyond
Independent country programme evaluations
(ICPEs), previously known as assessments of
development results (ADRs), continue to be
the backbone of the IEO’s work. ICPEs capture and demonstrate evaluative evidence of
UNDP’s contributions to development results
at the country level, as well as the effectiveness of UNDP’s strategies in facilitating
and leveraging national efforts to advance
development. The process supports the
development of UNDP country programme
documents, strengthens UNDP’s accountability to national stakeholders and bolsters
UNDP’s accountability to its Executive Board.
ICPEs also are vital to research and analysis
for thematic evaluations.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

ICPE coverage
2012-2016
Since 2012, the IEO has carried
out 42 ICPEs, evaluating $8.2 billion in programme expenditure.
In 2016, six country level assessments took place: in Cameroon,
Equatorial Guinea, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Mexico and Pakistan,
covering $650 million of UNDP
programme expenditures. The
six evaluations provided over
40 recommendations to country
offices to strengthen their development support. All have been
addressed with detailed and
comprehensive management
responses, illustrating high
regard for the ICPEs.

ICPEs completed since 2012

Note: These maps are stylized and not to scale. They do not reflect a position by UNDP on the legal status of any country
or territory or the delimitation of any frontiers. Source: Geospatial Information Section of the United Nations

The ICPE process continues
to evolve through changes and reforms to
ensure relevance to UNDP, and to support
learning and evaluative functions. Previous
years have seen the updating of ICPE guidance, making the process more aligned to
the global development agenda and UNDP’s
role at the country level, and more useful
for UNDP country teams when developing
strategic plans and country programme
documents.

16

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

ICPE process
In 2016, the ICPEs were further transformed
through a strategy to move from partial to 100
percent coverage of country offices due to
submit new country programme documents
to the Executive Board. This initiative seeks to
respond to an Executive Board call for wider
coverage of UNDP country programmes. The
previous country level evaluation process is
undergoing a thorough review through 2017;

the development of a sharper and briefer yet
still detailed approach will be required to
meet increased demand.
The new ICPE process is scheduled for full
implementation in 2017. It better reflects the
nature of country level evaluations in recent
years, and the diversity of models to adapt
evaluations to very different programme
contexts.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Conducting

an

ICPE

1 PREPARATION

2 DATA-COLLECTION

Consultation & communication
within UNDP

Desk
review

Preparation
mission in country

REPORT WRITING

4

Draft Report
compiled, circulated
for internal UNDP
Review
Regional
Bureau

Stakeholder Engagement
presents revised draft
to national stake holders to discuss
results and way forward for
UNDP country programme

Interviews

Terms of
Reference

ANALYSIS

Country IEO
Office

Field-based data collection mission,
including site visits

Team composition
orientation

Portfolio analysis and
selection of eligible ICPE countries

3

Government Development Partners Beneficiaries

In-depth assessment
and synthesis of data
ICPE presented to
the UNDP Executive
Board with new
Country Programme
Document

Identification of evidence-based
findings, conclusions
and recommendations

5 PRODUCTION/DISSEMINATION
Final Report
copy-edited,
designed and
translated
for publication

Website
Distribution

Evaluation Resource Centre
Social Media
Hard Copies

Country Offices
Regional Bureaux/Hubs
UNDP Executive Group

UN Missions
National Stakeholders
Evaluation Team

Management
Response finalized by UNDP with
follow-up actions
tracked on the Evaluation Resource Centre

6 FOLLOW-UP
Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

chapter

18

3

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Advancing Evaluation Practices
and Awareness
On taking his oath of appointment as the United Nations SecretaryGeneral, Antonio Guterres underlined independent evaluation as a pillar of
accountability in all United Nations agencies in working towards the SDGs.

IEO Thematic Evaluations
2012−2016
IEO provided UNDP with
90 recommendations.

Members of the UNDP Executive Board have reiterated this importance
and have participated actively in evaluation discussions, with 34 members
asking detailed questions during three board sessions in 2016. The
importance of evaluation is also reflected in UNDP’s increasing
responsiveness to thematic and country level evaluations, ensuring that

80 comprehensive management
responses received.

IEO ICPE Evaluations
2012−2016

programmes and strategies are adjusted in response to findings. Robust
discussions with the IEO further strengthen the transparency and learning
culture of the organization.

From 2012 to 2016, the IEO provided UNDP
with 90 thematic recommendations, which
received 80 comprehensive management
responses. The same high level of responsiveness was seen in ICPE recommendations.
Since 2012, all 244 recommendations in 42
ICPEs have received management responses

from country offices and regional bureaux,
with 482 key actions to be taken in response.
The IEO in 2016 played an active part in
generating and sharing knowledge on evaluation, including organization of more than
20 webinars and brownbag lunches.

IEO provided UNDP with 244
recommendations in 42 ICPEs.

All have received management responses
from country offices and regional bureaux.

482 key actions to be
taken in response.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

United Nations
Secretary-General,
Antonio Gutierres
underlined independent
evaluation as a pillar of
accountability in all United
Nations agencies in working
towards the SDGs.

The United Nations
Evaluation Group
The IEO continues to support and host
the UNEG, a voluntary network of 47 units
responsible for evaluation in the United
Nations System, including funds, programmes, specialized agencies and affiliated
organizations. In addition to the Director of
the IEO serving as a vice-chair of the UNEG
in 2016, the IEO hosts the UNEG secretariat.
In 2016, the IEO’s financial contribution came
to $299,965 for UNEG staffing, including
20 percent of costs for an executive coordinator; 100 percent of costs for a programme
specialist; contributions from an operations
specialist, an IT specialist and other staff as
well as operating costs.
Between 2014 and 2016, as a UNEG vicechair, the Director of the IEO supported the
strengthening of evaluation functions. Two
20

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

significant outputs included the updating of
the UNEG Norms and Standards for Evaluation, which was previously developed in
2005, and the UNEG Evaluation Competency
Framework, which was originally published
in 2008. The updated norms and standards
reflect the broader membership of the UNEG,
and respond to changing development and
evaluation priorities. These include the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and
the SDGs, and issues raised during the International Year of Evaluation in 2015 as well
as the National Evaluation Capacity Conference. Institutional frameworks for evaluation
are outlined, and standards defined for the
management of the evaluation function,
evaluation competencies, the conduct of
evaluations and evaluation quality.
In 2016, the Director of the IEO was again
elected UNEG vice-chair, responsible for system-wide initiatives and emerging demands.
Work areas include the role of evaluation in
the 2030 Agenda, gender equality and human
rights, humanitarian evaluation, culture
and evaluation, and the Independent System-wide Evaluation, under which a strategy
will be developed for UNEG engagement in
the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.

Global platforms to share
evaluation expertise
In 2016, the IEO expanded its efforts to promote knowledge sharing and partnership

building with a significant focus on the evaluation of the SDGs and the need to address
related challenges. Participating in several
international discussions, the IEO contributed to exploring solutions to strengthen
national evaluation capacities in general
and the evaluation of the SDGs in particular.
This included participation in the African
Development Bank Evaluation Week, the
Asian Evaluation Week, the European Evaluation Association Conference, international
forums and national evaluation efforts, all
of which forged connections across ideas,
policy approaches and the delivery of practical results.
The 2016 Asian Evaluation Week held in
Xi’an, China, was the first such event held in
Asia, allowing the exchange and synthesis of
ideas on the latest and applied thinking on
evaluation. The week was co-sponsored by
the People’s Republic of China, Ministry of
Finance; the Asia-Pacific Finance and Development Institute and the Asian Development
Bank Independent Evaluation Department.
It brought together 180 participants from 35
countries, with significant participation of
Asian government representatives.
IEO engagement was part of a growing partnership with the Asian Development Bank
Independent Evaluation Department, and
also marks one of many steps bolstering
UNDP’s commitment to national evaluation
capacity development. The IEO led and participated in several sessions of the event,

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

building on insights from the previous year’s
Bangkok National Evaluation Conference as
well as IEO evaluations in the Asia and the
Pacific region (17 country programme evaluations and 3 recent thematic evaluations).
The sessions delved into issues around evaluation for better programming and national
SDG assessment. The IEO also delivered a
presentation on big data and smart analytics.
The African Development Bank Evaluation Week supported the strengthening of
evidence-based knowledge-sharing, and
brought together over 150 participants from
government and intergovernmental agencies
from across the continent. The IEO contributed to discussion on evaluation partnerships
for the SDGs and the learning curve for
independent evaluations. It shared insights
on addressing challenges in evaluating the
SDGs and the 2030 Agenda in development
and post-conflict situations. In the Russian
Federation, the IEO contributed to a technical
workshop on inputs to a national monitoring
and evaluation framework. The session was
organized in Moscow by the World Bank and
the Ministry of Finance.
The IEO collaborated with several partners to
host a high-level interactive event at Wilton
Park in the United Kingdom on tracking development progress and evaluating development
partnerships in the post-2015 era. The event

brought together 68 development and evaluation experts, academics and decision makers
from 21 countries. It provided a neutral space
for debating issues, sharing knowledge,
exploring methods and forging partnerships.
IEO contributions to the discussions centred
on achieving the SDGs for development.
Continuing its engagement with the International Program for Development Evaluation
Training, the IEO addressed issues on evaluation independence and credibility. Over 100
participants, from government ministries,
national commissions, non-governmental
organizations, think tanks and international
development agencies participated in this
annual training programme.
In cooperation with the UNEG, the United
Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and
EVALSDGs, the IEO organized a side event
at the UN High-level Political Forum in New
York, focusing on evaluation and national
SDG reporting. The session showcased the
contribution of evaluation to inclusive and
equitable development progress in line with
the Agenda 2030 commitment to ensure that
“no one is left behind.” It drew participants
from a range of United Nations partners,
civil society, governments and academia.
The IEO also took part in a regional training
workshop organized by UNDP and the United
Nations Institute for Training and Research

in Bangkok in October as well as the Forum
International Francophone de l’Evaluation in
Morocco in December.
All IEO activities during the year were coordinated to boost momentum and discussion
around evaluation, Agenda 2030 and the
SDGs, in light of preparations for the next
National Evaluation Capacity Conference,
planned for the fourth quarter of 2017 in the
region of Europe and the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS).

Communications
and outreach
In 2016, the IEO effectively reached target
audiences, enhanced awareness of its work,
and disseminated evaluations and other
products through various communications
channels. These included the Internet, social
media, newsletters, the Evaluation Resource
Centre and webinars. To reach new audiences, and encourage broader sharing and
uptake of evaluations, the IEO developed
a series of innovative communications
products. Evaluation summaries, data visualizations and micro-videos drew attention by
concisely and creatively repackaging findings
and highlights. Analytics for social medial
accounts and the IEO website indicated audience rates increased from 2015.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

chapter

22

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

4

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Decentralized Evaluations
Building decentralized
evaluation capacities
Further to provisions under the new Evaluation Policy, and as directed by the UNDP
Executive Board, the IEO provides wideranging support to decentralized evaluations
carried out by UNDP programme and policy
units. This includes revising guidelines and
trainings, holding regional training workshops, providing oversight by monitoring
evaluation implementation against evaluations plans, and offering quality assessments
of the plans.
In response to Executive Board requests following a 2014 report outlining weakness and
challenges in decentralized evaluations, the
IEO has revitalized and expanded its activities
as agreed in previous reports to the Board. In
carrying out this work, and in keeping with
agreed roles and responsibilities set out in
the new Evaluation Policy, the IEO coordinates closely with UNDP.

Regional capacity support for decentralized evaluation

Evaluation
policy
Evaluation
quality
assessment

Evaluation
guidance

STRENGTHENING
DECENTRALIZED
EVALUATION
Evaluation
Resource
Centre

Evaluation
planning
Evaluation
implementation

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

23

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

The IEO is collaborating with UNDP regional
bureaux on a series of regional workshops to
encourage regional evaluation support staff
and country office monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) focal points to identify decentralized
evaluation challenges, guidance requirements and training needs. The process also
aims to clarify evaluation planning and implementation requirements.
The first workshop, for the Arab States
region, took place in late 2016 in Amman,
Jordan, in conjunction with a regional bureau
workshop supporting country programme
document development and result-oriented
annual reporting. The IEO assisted with the
participation of 25 M&E focal points and staff
from 18 country offices and seven regional
staff. Aligning support to other activities in

the region reduced costs and gave the IEO
the opportunity to give input into the country
programme document planning process,
which should help ensure improved evaluation planning. Similar workshops, aligned
with other forms of planning support, are
slated for 2017 in Asia and the Pacific, and
Europe and the CIS.
The initial workshop in Amman found high
capacity among country office evaluation
focal points, yet they still requested support
for decentralized evaluations. They noted
that they continue to need guidance from the
regional bureaux, with their work often being
hindered by constrained budgets restricting
the numbers of evaluations and a limited
pool of independent evaluators.

Decentralized evaluation
planning and budgeting
The total expenditure for the IEO and decentralized evaluations at the regional and
country levels in 2016 was $19,854,524, which
was 0.44 percent of UNDP’s core and non-core
budget (approximate UNDP total expenditure
was $4.48 billion). This comprised three kinds
of evaluation expenditures. The IEO expenditure was $8,490,000, covering staffing and
evaluation costs for ICPEs, thematic evaluations and capacity development activities,
including decentralized evaluation support. Country offices disbursed $9,724,524
on evaluation staffing and decentralized
evaluations, 2 while regional bureaux spent
$1,640,000 on staff and evaluations.3

Total expenditure for evaluation in UNDP
$1,640,000

$9,724,524

Regional bureaux
& headquarters

Country offices

$8,490,000
IEO

24

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

TOTAL
$19,854,524

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Average decentralized budget costs vary
considerably across regions. In Europe and
the CIS, the average costs are $20,000, while
in Asia and the Pacific, the average rises to
$35,000. This is dictated by the number and
types of evaluations. In general, the United
Nations Development Assistance Framework (UNDAF) and outcome evaluations cost
more than project evaluations, though again
this varies across regions and is illustrative
of different evaluation plans, numbers and
strategies for evaluation implementation
and use.

Decentralized evaluation
implementation
In 2016, 256 evaluations were carried out
in 101 UNDP country offices, along with 12
regional evaluations. There were 204 project
evaluations (110 of UNDP projects, 94 of
UNDP/GEF projects), 31 UNDAF and other
evaluations (such as of country programme
documents), and 21 outcome evaluations.
GEF terminal evaluations are mandatory and
made up a considerable share of evaluations
in 2016. A trend apparent in country office
evaluation planning is an increasing focus
on mandatory evaluations, which results in
GEF terminal evaluations being overly represented in evaluation plans compared to other
programme/project evaluations as well as
outcome areas.

Total budgets for decentralized evaluations by region, 2016 (in US$)

Africa

Arab States

Asia and
the Pacific

Europe and
the CIS

Latin
America
and the
Caribbean

3,464,725

415,565

1,894,511

827,662

1,098,519

7,700,982

UNDP project evaluations

1,259,100

144,475

574,856

221,330

453,234

2,652,995

UNDP/GEF evaluations

1,025,816

26,090

713,155

494,100

436,285

2,695,446

Outcome evaluations

382,250

175,000

115,000

62,232

125,000

859,482

UNDAF and
other evaluations

797,559

70,000

491,500

50,000

84,000

1,493,059

Total decentralized
evaluation budget

Total budget

Source: Data from the Evaluation Resource Centre 2016

Number and budgets of decentralized evaluations, 2013-2016
2013
Type of
evaluation

2014

2015

2016

Number of
evaluations

Budget
(US$)

Number of
evaluations

Budget
(US$)

Number of
evaluations

Budget
(US$)

Number of
evaluations

Budget
(US$)

UNDP project
evaluations

194

4,567,504

124

2,510,384

101

2,596,717

110

2,652,995

UNDP/GEF
evaluations

128

2,808,772

106

2,293,097

104

2,323,736

94

2,695,446

Outcome
evaluations

45

1,347,686

27

861,881

38

1,645,555

21

859,482

UNDAF
and other
evaluations

20

816,523

35

1,118,538

23

957,000

31

1,493,059

387

9,540,485

292

6,785,400

266

8,073,462

256

7,700,982

Totals

Source: Data from the Evaluation Resource Centre as of 31 January 2017

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

Total number of country office evaluations by region, 2016
The number of decentralized evaluations at
the country office level is declining, with the
total number falling by 34 percent between
2013 and 2016 4 (387 evaluations to 256). The
largest decline has been in project evaluations
(a 48 percent decline) and outcome evaluations (a 54 percent decline). The number of
UNDAF and other evaluations has increased
by 55 percent. These patterns accompany a
decline in decentralized evaluation budgets
from $9.5 million in 2013 to $7.7 million in
2016,5 a reduction of 19 percent.
UNDP regional and policy bureaux conducted
12 evaluations in 2016, nine of which received
management responses. The Bureau for
Policy and Programme Support completed
four project evaluations, two of which were
global UNDP-GEF evaluations. The remaining
eight evaluations were carried out by the
Regional Bureau for Europe and the CIS
(four), the Regional Bureau for Latin America
and the Caribbean (two), the Regional Bureau
for Africa (one) and the Regional Bureau for
Asia and the Pacific (one).

26

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

AFRICA

ARAB STATES

ASIA AND
THE PACIFIC

EUROPE
AND THE CIS

LATIN
AMERICA
AND THE
CARIBBEAN

Number of country offices

48

18

24

22

26

UNDP project evaluations

41

11

19

16

23

UNDP/GEF evaluations

34

2

23

20

15

Outcome evaluations

9

2

3

3

4

UNDAF and other evaluations

17

1

9

1

3

Number of country offices
undertaking evaluations

38

9

19

17

18

All regions: 138 country offices

TOTALS

UNDP project evaluations

110

UNDP/GEF evaluations

94

Outcome evaluations

21

UNDAF and other evaluations

31

Number of country offices
undertaking evaluations

101

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Assessing the quality of
decentralized evaluations

All evaluations included in country office
evaluation plans are mandatory, and require
a management response and key actions
in response to recommendations. Of the
256 evaluations completed in 2016, 98 percent (251 evaluations) had a management
response. Actual follow-up on key actions
remains low, however, and often delayed,
with only 46 percent of key actions between
2013 and 2016 being completed.

After a two-year pause, the IEO restarted
a revised quality assessment process of
decentralized evaluations covering all 2016
outcome and project/programme evaluations
(170) and a sample of 2015 evaluations (85).
Through the Evaluation Resource Centre, the
process gives immediate feedback on quality
to regional bureaux and country offices.

Summary of the quality assessment of decentralized evaluations, 2016 (%)
Highly
satisfactory

Satisfactory

Moderately
satisfactory

Moderately
unsatisfactory

Unsatisfactory

Highly
unsatisfactory

UNDP
project
evaluations

0

27

45

23

4

1

UNDP/GEF
terminal
evaluations

0

30

55

15

0

0

The number of
decentralized
evaluations at the
country office level is
declining, with the total
number falling by 34%
between 2013 and 2016.

The process rates evaluations based on four
areas: the quality of the terms of reference;
the methodology, use of data and structure;
consideration of cross-cutting issues, such
as gender, human rights and minority concerns; and the quality and utility of findings,
conclusions and recommendations.
Of the 255 evaluations assessed in 2016,
75 percent were found satisfactory or
moderately satisfactory, in that they followed minimum criteria in the Handbook
on Planning, Monitoring and Evaluating for
Development Results. The rest, 25 percent,
were found to be less than satisfactory (moderately unsatisfactory or unsatisfactory or

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

below). In general, GEF terminal evaluations
were better in quality, which reflects detailed
mandatory requirements for these evaluations that are often quite rigid and offer
little interpretation. UNDP guidelines give
country offices more freedom in evaluation
implementation, reflecting the variety of different programmes, outcomes and types of
evaluation.
The IEO provides oversight of country evaluation plans aligned with country programme
documents, to ensure compliance. In 2016,

29 country programme documents ended;
of these, 19 plans, or 66 percent, were fully
compliant with their evaluation plans (90
percent to 100 percent of all planned evaluations were completed). Eight plans, or 28
percent, were partially compliant (40 percent
to 89 percent of planned evaluations were
completed). Two plans, or 6 percent, were
non-compliant, with less than 39 percent of
evaluations completed.

The Evaluation
Resource Centre
In 2016, the IEO conducted a major overhaul
of the Evaluation Resource Centre,6 making it
more useful for country offices. The Centre
now provides access to over 3,500 evaluations and terms of reference for a wide
variety of types of evaluations. A detailed
roster of evaluation experts covering a range
of sectors is updated on an ongoing basis.

Summary of compliance with country office evaluation plans
for country programme documents ending in 2016
3
3
5
3
5

4
0
1
0
3

1
1
0
0
0

TOTAL

TOTAL

TOTAL

(66%)

(28%)

(6%)

Number of compliant country programmes
(completed 90-100% of planned evaluations)

Number of partially compliant country programmes
(completed 40-89% of planned evaluations)

Number of non-compliant country programmes
(completed 0-39% of planned evaluations)

19

Africa

Arab States

8

Asia and the Pacific

Europe and the CIS

2

Latin America and the Caribbean
Source: Evaluation Resource Centre

28

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

chapter

5

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Finances and Staffing
Financing
In 2016, the IEO disbursed $8.49 million for
evaluations and other institutional activities;
$8.06 million came from core resources.
This represented an overspend of nearly
$600,000, which was possible due to a budget
override on IEO staff costs. The Australian
and Norwegian governments and the Swiss
Development Cooperation Agency provided
$430,000 to support the strengthening of
decentralized evaluation, among other aims.
The 2016 budget for the IEO represents only
0.172 percent of overall UNDP core and noncore funds.

Staffing
As of January 2017, the IEO had 23 staff posts,
17 international professionals and 6 general
service staff. Women made up 56 percent of
professional staff.
The IEO’s current professional staff is
extremely strong, representing 11 countries
and speaking over 15 languages. Staff members have an expansive range of evaluation
experiences, education and membership in
professional evaluation organizations across
the globe. They have worked with a wide
range of multilateral agencies, both within
and outside of the United Nations, including
30

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

the Asian Development Bank, African Development Bank, UNICEF, the United Nations
Office on Drugs and Crime, the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities, the World
Bank, the International Fund for Agricultural
Development, the Organisation for Economic
Co-operation and Development and a wide
range of bilateral agencies.
A request has been made for a moderate
expansion in staff, which includes seven
additional P3, P2 and General service level
positions to further strengthen the office
and its strategic goals. The proposed new
posts will enable formation of three main
substantive IEO teams or clusters (plus the
Directorate and operations team), corresponding to internal committee structures
developed over the last year. Clusters would
be oriented around independent country
programme evaluation, headquarters/corporate evaluations, and evaluation capacity
development, including quality assurance for
decentralized evaluation. As the office moves
towards conducting a greater number of
ICPEs, enhancing decentralized support and
providing a revised set of corporate reports
in response to demands from the UNDP
Executive Board, increased resources will
be essential to maintain quality, statistical
analysis functions, and communication and
information management structures.

DIRECTORATE
(Director, Deputy Director, assistants)

Directorate
Support Functions
Operations (finance and
human resources), ICT,
communications, internal
quality assurance

Independent
Country Programme
Evaluation Team
Headquarters/
Corporate Evaluation
Team
Evaluation Capacity
Development Team

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

chapter

6

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Engagement with the
United Nations Capital Development Fund
and the United Nations Volunteers
The IEO increased its level of support to both the United Nations
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and the United Nations Volunteers
(UNV) during 2016 and will further expand its work in 2017.

32

Both UNCDF and UNV evaluations are now subject to the same quality assessment process as
UNDP evaluations, and the IEO will report findings from 2017 to the UNDP Executive Board.
During 2017, the IEO will back the development
of new strategic plans and frameworks in both
organizations, ensuring an independent perspective to support future directions.

the global CleanStart programme promoting
increased financing and market development
for clean and affordable energy solutions for
low-income households and microentrepreneurs in Cambodia, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Nepal
and Uganda. Total expenditure on evaluation
in 2016 was approximately $355,346, drawn
from core and non-core resources.

UNCDF completed two external mid-term and
final project evaluations in 2016: the first on a
project targeting local economic development
and improved food security in Niger, and the
second on a project supporting the development of inclusive finance in Lao People’s
Democratic Republic. Two mid-term, multicountry programme evaluations began. The
first is assessing the global Local Finance Initiative, which introduces new approaches to ‘last
mile’ infrastructure finance by the public and
private sectors in Benin, Uganda and the United
Republic of Tanzania. The second involves

With preparations for the UNCDF 2018-2021
Strategic Framework well underway, an
important additional focus of the UNCDF
Evaluation Unit’s work in 2017 will be to provide evaluative inputs into the design of the
framework and its accompanying integrated

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

results and resources matrix. Two external
reviews will support this exercise. The first
will gauge the quality and appropriateness of
UNCDF’s results measurement systems since
2014, and the second will synthesize the main
results from eight independent evaluations
commissioned by UNCDF since 2014.
The UNV budget for evaluation in 2016 was
approximately $259,000, drawn from core
and non-core resources, including Special
Voluntary Funds. This included the cost of
one project evaluation, the first deliverables of a corporate level strategic framework
evaluation and the staffing costs of one
evaluation specialist. UNV has continued to
provide technical support and quality assurance to decentralized project evaluations,
completing the final evaluation of the UN
Volunteers Asia Youth Volunteer Exchange
Programme in the United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia.
In 2016, UNV began developing increased
evaluation capacity. Following the recruitment of the evaluation specialist, a two-phase
transitional evaluation plan was developed.
The first phase will address immediate information needs, namely through evaluations
of the UNV Strategic Framework 2014-2017,
and UNV work to support gender equality
and women’s empowerment. The second
phase will strengthen the evaluation function
through a systematic evaluation work-planning process, and update guidance and
support for decentralized evaluations.

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

chapter

7

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

Looking Forward: Plans for 2017
Thematic evaluations
In 2017, the IEO will complete its evaluation
of the UNDP Strategic Plan 2014-2017, which
will be finalized in time for consideration by
the drafters of the Strategic Plan 2018-2021.
The IEO will also deliver new overviews of
core dimensions of evaluation to the UNDP
Executive Board, including on:

2017
Executive Board session

Jan

Annual Report on Evaluation

Jun

2018
Sep

Jan

X

Medium-term Evaluation Plan

Sep

Jan

X

Thematic evaluations

TBD*

• Anti-corruption

X

• Disability-inclusive development

X

b.	 Evaluation capacity development

• Institutional effectiveness

Jun

Sep

X

TBD

TBD

TBD

X

• Strategic Plan

X

Synthesis of independent
country evaluations

X

d.	 The status of implementation of
IEO recommendations

Evaluation capacity development

X

Status of implementation
of IEO recommendations

X

Reporting will be in line with a biennial staggering of IEO programme reporting to the
Executive Board. Plans for the 2017 Board
session and preliminary plans for 2018
and 2019, subject to more detailed review,
include proposals for thematic evaluation
topics in the multiyear evaluation plan. For
more details on future plans, pending a final
decision by the Executive Board, the IEO has
proposed a Medium-term Evaluation Plan for
the 2018-2021 cycle.

Quality assessment of
decentralized evaluation

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Jun

2019

X

a.	 Independent country level evaluations

c.	 Quality assessment of
decentralized evaluations

34

Cycle of reporting to the Executive Board

X

X

X

X

*To be determined (TBD)

Status of implementation
of IEO recommendations
In 2017, the IEO proposes to establish a mechanism to systematically track, assess and
report on the implementation status of all

IEO evaluation recommendations, including
country programme evaluations, regional
and global evaluations, and thematic evaluations. The purpose is to further strengthen
and contribute to UNDP accountability by
ensuring full follow-up.

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

The tracking system will have the following
objectives:
•	 To systematically collect and record the
content of all management responses,
including the description of recommendations, proposed actions, due dates and
the status of follow-up activities until the
completion of the actions; and
•	 To serve as the database for regular
reporting to UNDP and its Executive Board
on the status of implementation of all recommendations issued by the IEO.
UNDP’s practice of requiring management responses began in 2006. The IEO
tracking system will capture all management
responses since that point.

Future independent
country programme
evaluations
Eight new ICPEs will take place in 2017—in
Chile, Cuba, Kuwait, Namibia, the Philippines,
Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Togo. Two
ADRs that started in 2016 will be finalized.
In 2018, the IEO plans to undertake up to 14
ICPEs, supporting 88 percent of countries
submitting country programme documents

ADR/ICPE COVERAGE FROM 2012 TO 2020
ICPE coverage of country programmes submitted to the UNDP Executive Board, 2012-2020

Year

Country programme
documents covered by
ICPEs*

Country programme
documents going to the
Executive Board

ICPE coverage, %

2012

11

26

42

2013

2

13

15

2014

7

12

58

2015

3

29

10

2016

8

36

22

2017

10

43

23

2018

14

16

88

2019

12

12

100

2020

28

28

100

*Number of ICPEs for 2018-2020 are projected numbers for full coverage by 2019.

to the UNDP Executive Board. Future years
may see considerably higher numbers of
country programme documents going to the
Board, requiring supporting ICPEs. While by
2019-2020 the IEO should be able to start evaluating 100 percent of the submissions, this
will require a range of approaches, including
some regional clustering. A major factor in
achieving expanded coverage is ensuring the
IEO has the resources to evaluate over twice
the number of country programmes per year.

Decentralized evaluation
assessment and support
Following the IEO’s renewed commitment to
decentralized evaluation and directions from
the UNDP Executive Board, the IEO will continue closely engaging with UNDP regional
bureaux in strengthening the process. This
includes:
•	 Regional workshops in Asia and the Pacific
(May 2017), Africa (June 2017), Europe
and the CIS, and Latin America and the

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

35

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Caribbean (July to October 2017) that
support evaluation planning for country
programme document cycles, implementation of evaluations, and the management
and use of evaluations.
•	 Operation of the Evaluation Resource
Centre and regular reporting to the Executive Board and UNDP on the quality of
evaluations, management responses and
key follow-up actions.
•	 Monitoring and evaluation guideline
revision with improved online and face-toface training opportunities for M&E focal
points at all levels as well as programme
staff.
•	 Oversight of regional and country office
evaluation plans as well as the development of guidelines for evaluation planning.
•	 Continued quality assessment of decentralized evaluations; improved reporting,
feedback to and oversight of regional and
country offices; and targeted support to
offices facing challenges.
•	 Strengthened support to UNCDF and UNV,
including a review role for the evaluation
of their forthcoming strategic frameworks
as well as the inclusion of their decentralized evaluations in the quality assessment
process.
36

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

National evaluation
capacity
During the fourth quarter of 2017, the IEO will
hold the fifth National Evaluation Capacity
Conference in Europe and the CIS, following
similar conferences in Bangkok (2015), São
Paulo (2013), Johannesburg (2011) and Casablanca (2009). An expected 300 or more
participants from more than 100 countries,
United Nations agencies and international
organizations will come together to outline
how evaluation can be better enhanced at
the national level and integrated into development policies.
While the conference will be a flagship
capacity development initiative for the IEO
during 2017, the office will also provide more
limited support through select initiatives,
including the global Evalpartners forum and
regional evaluation conferences (African
Evaluation Association and Asia Evaluation
Week). The office will develop and pilot a
diagnostic guide on assessment of national
evaluation capacity needs for the SDG era.

Costed programme
of work in 2017
As part of the IEO’s integrated work plan,
it has requested an allocation of $10.2 million for 2017, with $9.2 million to address

mandated core independent evaluation
work, and $1 million in additional funding for
planned direct support of decentralized evaluations as well as increased coverage of UNV
and UNCDF evaluations.
During the current multiyear evaluation plan,
the IEO significantly changed the ‘model’ of
its work from one in which evaluations were
led by external consultants to one in which
IEO staff play key lead evaluator roles. This
change has heightened the overall quality of
IEO evaluations, yet added considerably to
the workload for IEO staff.
To deliver on the IEO’s approved costed programme of work for 2017, the implementation
of its proposed schedule of reporting, its role
in support of decentralized evaluation and
national evaluation capacity development
together with its proposed expansion of ICPE
coverage, the office is currently seeking a
moderate expansion of staff posts. An additional seven posts would comprise two at the
General Service level and five at the P3 and
P2 levels. These will strengthen the current
committee structure—independent country
programme evaluation, headquarters/corporate evaluations, and evaluation capacity
development, including quality assurance for
decentralized evaluation.

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

annexes
ANNEX 1. 	SNAPSHOT OF IMPLEMENTATION, BUDGETS AND QUALITY,
2013 TO 2016
		

Global snapshot of decentralized evaluation

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016

Number of evaluations, 2016
2013

2014

2015

2016

Total number of evaluations

387

292

266

256

UNDP project evaluations

194

124

101

110

UNDP/GEF evaluations

128

106

104

94

Outcome evaluations

45

27

38

21

UNDAF and other evaluations

20

35

23

31

Average budget
2016, $

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016
2013, $

2014, $

2015, $

2016, $

Total evaluation budget

9,540,485

6,785,400

8,073,462

7,700,982

28,093

UNDP project evaluations

4,567,504

2,510,384

2,596,717

2,652,995

21,528

UNDP/GEF evaluations

2,808,772

2,293,097

2,323,736

2,695,446

25,603

Outcome evaluations

1,347,686

861,881

1,645,555

859,482

44,060

816,523

1,118,538

957,000

1,493,059

49,905

UNDAF and
other evaluations

2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations—
total for regional bureaux and headquarters
HS: 0
S: 46
MS: 80
MU: 37
U: 6
HU: 1

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

170

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

annexes
Africa snapshot of decentralized evaluation in 2016
Number of evaluations, 2016
Regional share
of global total in
2016, %

2013

2014

2015

2016

Global number of
evaluations, 2016

123

96

76

101

256

39.45

UNDP project evaluations

71

38

24

41

110

37.27

UNDP/GEF evaluations

27

28

24

34

94

36.17

Outcome evaluations

18

11

19

9

21

42.86

7

19

9

17

31

54.84

Total number of evaluations

UNDAF and
other evaluations

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016

38

Regional
share of
global budget
in 2016, %

Average
budget in
the region
in 2016, $

2013, $

2014, $

2015, $

2016, $

Global
budget in
2016, $

Total evaluation budget

3,859,279

2,667,982

2,970,091

3,464,725

7,700,982

44.99

34,304

UNDP project evaluations

2,058,495

956,256

903,948

1,259,100

2,652,995

47.46

30,710

UNDP/GEF evaluations

664,398

729,989

696,073

1,025,816

2,695,446

38.06

30,171

Outcome evaluations

553,386

339,782

805,070

382,250

859,482

44.47

42,472

UNDAF and
other evaluations

583,000

640,455

565,000

797,559

1,493,059

53.42

46,915

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016
2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations
HS: 0
S: 14
MS: 35
MU: 5
U: 5
HU: 1

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

60

Number of evaluations over years: 170
Regional share of global total: 35.29%

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

annexes
Arab States snapshot of decentralized evaluations in 2016
Number of evaluations, 2016
Regional share
of global total in
2016, %

2013

2014

2015

2016

Global number of
evaluations, 2016

Total number of evaluations

36

33

32

16

256

6.25

UNDP project evaluations

19

19

14

11

110

10.00

UNDP/GEF evaluations

11

11

12

2

94

2.13

Outcome evaluations

4

1

4

2

21

9.52

UNDAF and
other evaluations

2

2

2

1

31

3.23

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016

2016, $

Regional
share of
global budget
in 2016, %

Average
budget in
the region
in 2016, $

2013, $

2014, $

1,044,185

822,928

766,166

415,565

7,700,982

5.40

25,973

UNDP project evaluations

617,185

561,019

215,712

144,475

2,652,995

5.45

13,134

UNDP/GEF evaluations

227,000

216,709

295,454

26,090

2,695,446

0.97

13,045

Outcome evaluations

185,000

18,000

75,000

175,000

859,482

20.36

87,500

15,000

27,200

180,000

70,000

1,493,059

4.69

70,000

Total evaluation budget

UNDAF and
other evaluations

2015, $

Global
budget in
2016, $

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016
2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations
HS: 0
S: 3
MS: 3
MU: 8
U: 0
HU: 0

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

14

Number of evaluations over years: 170
Regional share of global total: 8.24%

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

39

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

annexes
Asia and the Pacific snapshot of decentralized evaluations in 2016
Number of evaluations, 2016
Regional share
of global total in
2016, %

2013

2014

2015

2016

Global number of
evaluations, 2016

Total number of evaluations

79

60

63

54

256

21.09

UNDP project evaluations

37

29

27

19

110

17.27

UNDP/GEF evaluations

35

25

28

23

94

24.47

Outcome evaluations

6

2

5

3

21

14.29

UNDAF and
other evaluations

1

4

3

9

31

29.03

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016
Average
budget in
the region
in 2016, $

2013, $

2014, $

2015, $

2016, $

2,246,305

2,038,193

2,127,818

1,894,511

7,700,982

24.60

35,084

UNDP project evaluations

920,906

982,773

741,354

574,856

2,652,995

21.67

30,256

UNDP/GEF evaluations

948,399

752,420

765,879

713,155

2,695,446

26.46

31,007

Outcome evaluations

327,000

135,000

468,585

115,000

859,482

13.38

38,333

50,000

168,000

152,000

491,500

1,493,059

32.92

54,611

Total evaluation budget

UNDAF and
other evaluations

40

Regional
share of
global budget
in 2016, %

Global
budget in
2016, $

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016
2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations
HS: 0
S: 10
MS: 17
MU: 4
U: 0
HU: 0

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

31

Number of evaluations over years: 170
Regional share of global total: 18.24%

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

annexes
Europe and the CIS snapshot of decentralized evaluations in 2016
Number of evaluations, 2016
Regional share
of global total in
2016, %

2013

2014

2015

2016

Global number of
evaluations, 2016

Total number of evaluations

67

45

45

40

256

15.63

UNDP project evaluations

29

19

17

16

110

14.55

UNDP/GEF evaluations

27

16

16

20

94

21.28

Outcome evaluations

8

6

9

3

21

14.29

UNDAF and
other evaluations

3

4

3

1

31

3.23

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016

2013, $
Total evaluation budget

2014, $

2015, $

2016, $

Global
budget in
2016, $

Regional
share of
global budget
in 2016, %

Average
budget in
the region
in 2016, $

1,342,950

746,510

957,120

827,662

7,700,982

10.75

20,692

UNDP project evaluations

571,411

268,400

284,977

221,330

2,652,995

8.34

13,833

UNDP/GEF evaluations

533,003

275,607

350,243

494,100

2,695,446

18.33

24,705

Outcome evaluations

205,300

128,801

221,900

62,232

859,482

7.24

20,744

33,236

73,702

100,000

50,000

1,493,059

3.35%

50,000

UNDAF and
other evaluations

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016
2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations
HS: 0
S: 12
MS: 8
MU: 10
U: 0
HU: 0

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

30

Number of evaluations over years: 170
Regional share of global total: 17.65%

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

annexes
Latin America and the Caribbean snapshot of decentralized evaluations in 2016
Number of evaluations, 2016
Regional share
of global total in
2016, %

2013

2014

2015

2016

Global number of
evaluations, 2016

Total number of evaluations

82

58

50

45

256

17.58

UNDP project evaluations

38

19

19

23

110

20.91

UNDP/GEF

28

26

24

15

94

15.96

Outcome evaluations

9

7

1

4

21

19.05

UNDAF and
other evaluations

7

6

6

3

31

9.68

Evaluation budgets, 2013 to 2016

42

Regional
share of
global budget
in 2016, %

Average
budget in
the region
in 2016, $

2013, $

2014, $

2015, $

2016, $

Global
budget in
2016, $

Total evaluation budget

2,091,951

1,332,715

1,252,267

1,098,519

7,700,982

14.26

24,412

UNDP project evaluations

1,016,692

302,955

450,726

453,234

2,652,995

17.08

19,706

UNDP/GEF evaluations

662,972

535,081

511,541

436,285

2,695,446

16.19

29,086

Outcome evaluations

262,000

258,298

150,000

125,000

859,482

14.54

31,250

UNDAF and
other evaluations

150,287

236,381

140,000

84,000

1,493,059

5.63

28,000

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

Quality assessment
of decentralized evaluations, 2016
2016 UNDP project and UNDP/GEF evaluations
HS: 0
S: 7
MS: 15
MU: 10
U: 1
HU: 0

Total number
of evaluations
(UNDP project
and UNDP/GEF)

33

Number of evaluations over years: 170
Regional share of global total: 19.41%

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEX 2. 	GLOBAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION CAPACITY,
2013 TO 2016
UNDP global
2016

2015

2014

2013

136

136

136

137

Share of countries with M&E capacity, %

56

52

60

45

Number of M&E specialists

76

83

105

71

Number of regional M&E specialists

12

13

14

11

Number of country offices

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEX 3. 	REGIONAL MONITORING AND EVALUATION CAPACITY,
2013 TO 2016

Africa

Asia and the Pacific

Latin America
and the Caribbean

Europe and the CIS

2016

2015

2014

2013

2016

2015

2014

2013

2016

2015

2014

2013

2016

2015

2014

2013

2016

2015

2014

2013

Number of
country offices

46

46

46

46

18

18

18

18

24

24

24

24

22

22

22

23

26

26

26

26

Share of
countries with
M&E capacity, %

50

52

50

57

67

50

100

50

58

63

71

38

59

32

27

17

54

62

69

54

Number of
M&E specialists

25

24

23

26

12

14

28

9

18

20

23

14

23

9

6

4

17

16

25

18

2

3

3

2

2

3

3

1

1

1

2

3

5

3

2

4

2

2

4

1

Number of
regional M&E
specialists

44

Arab States

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEX 4. 	2016 AVERAGE BUDGETS FOR EVALUATIONS
(COUNTRY OFFICES)
Number of evaluations, 2016

Africa

Arab
States

Asia and
the Pacific

Europe and
the CIS

Latin America
and the
Caribbean

Regional
bureaux

Average cost, all evaluations, $

34,304

25,973

35,084

20,692

24,412

28,093

Average cost, UNDP project evaluations, $

30,710

13,134

30,256

13,833

19,706

21,528

Average cost, UNDP/GEF evaluations, $

30,171

13,045

31,007

24,705

29,086

25,603

Average cost, outcome evaluations, $

42,472

87,500

38,333

20,744

31,250

44,060

Average cost, UNDAF and other evaluations, $

46,915

70,000

54,611

50,000

28,000

49,905

Source: Data from the Evaluation Resource Centre as of 31 January 2017

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

annexes

ANNEX 5. 	MEMBERS AND KEY ACTIVITIES
OF THE EVALUATION ADVISORY PANEL IN 2016

46

Member

Country

Evaluations and activities supported

Michael Bamberger

United Kingdom

ADR Albania, methodological guidance for the Strategic Plan evaluation

Rachid Benmokhtar Benabdellah

Morocco

Panel member, evaluation side events, UN High-level Political Forum

Chen Zhaoying

China

ADR Viet Nam, ADR Kyrgyzstan, ADR Pakistan

Zenda Ofir

South Africa

ADR Ethiopia, participant at the High-level Political Forum ‘networking and experience-sharing’ session

Ray Rist

United States of America

Institutional effectiveness, Strategic Plan evaluation

Thomas Schwandt

United States of America

Anti-corruption evaluation, Strategic Plan evaluation, Occasional Paper review, participant at the High-level
Political Forum ‘networking and experience-sharing’ session

Elliot Stern

United Kingdom

Guidance for quality assurance on decentralized evaluation and methodological inputs for thematic evaluations

Daniel Weiner

United States of America

ADR Somalia

Osvaldo Feinstein

Argentina

Newly appointed in 2017

Paulo Jannuzzi

Brazil

Newly appointed in 2017

Gelase Rwabyo Mutahaba

United Republic of Tanzania

Newly appointed in 2017

Olga Schetinina

Ukraine

Newly appointed in 2017

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

ENDNOTES
1

2

	The speech of the Secretary-General to
the United Nations General Assembly,
December 2016. See: www.un.org/sg/
en/content/sg/speeches/2016-12-12/
secretary-general-designate-ant%C3%B3nio-guterres-oath-office-speech.
	Country office staff and evaluation
budget data from the UNDP Bureau
for Programme and Policy Support,
drawn from the 2016 Results-Oriented
Annual Report.

3

	IEO calculation based on Evaluation
Resource Centre evaluation budgets
and staffing numbers reported by
regional bureaux.

4

	Based on Evaluation Resource Centre
data as of 31 January 2017.

5

	As reported in the Evaluation Resource
Centre by country offices for 2016.

6

	 See: www.erc.undp.org.

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

48

Annual Report on Evaluation 2016

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

Independent Evaluation Office
United Nations Development Programme
220 East 42nd Street,
New York, NY 10017
USA
Tel. +1 (646) 781 4200
Fax. +1 (646) 781 4213
www.undp.org/evaluation

Annual Report on Evaluation - 2016
ISBN: 978-92-1-126421-0
eISBN: 978-92-1-060060-6

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

