UNITED NATIONS
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Contents

Did you know?

FOREWORD BY ACHIM STEINER	

4

UNDP 2020	

6

WHEN MICRO MEETS MACRO	

8

THE YEAR WE FOUGHT A VIRUS	

10

WE CANNOT LOSE SIGHT OF THE SDGs		

12

UNDP’S LEADERSHIP TEAM	

3

PEOPLE, PURPOSE, PROGRESS	

14

#NextGenUNDP	

16

HUMAN DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2020

19

OUR STRATEGIC PLANS	

20

SIGNATURE SOLUTIONS	

21

	POVERTY	

22

	GOVERNANCE	

24

	RESILIENCE	

26

	ENVIRONMENT	

28

	ENERGY	

30

	GENDER	

32

DELIVERING ON OUR CLIMATE PROMISE	

34

FUTURE PARTNERSHIPS TODAY		

36

UN FAMILY STAYS STRONG	

38

PROACTIVE PRESENCE THROUGHOUT THE PANDEMIC	

39

INVESTING IN DEVELOPMENT	

40

CORE BRINGS MORE	

42

HOW THE WORLD VIEWS US	

44

GLOBAL, REGIONAL, LOCAL	

46

The sunflower is a world within a world.
Its head (pictured on the cover) is comprised of a thousand tiny flowers;
each petal is a flower in itself. Reaching between 1 and 5 metres in height, the
drought-tolerant sunflower will follow the sun from sunrise to sunset. And its
seed has been cultivated as a healthy food source for over 8,000 years, longer
than corn and beans. Native to North America, it is now harvested globally.
UNDP works in much the same way: connecting detail to scale.

2

3

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Foreword
Development’s Biggest Challenge

For the first time in 30 years, global human
development declined. People everywhere
struggled to stop the spread of the virus,
save lives and respond to the unprecedented socio-economic trauma it created. The
climate crisis deepened, despite a temporary dip in carbon emissions as the world
hit the pause button. And as silent streets
gave way to protests, inequality, racism and
discrimination were laid bare as weapons of
oppression that must be abandoned once
and for all. It was in the eye of this perfect
storm that the Decade of Action for the Sustainable Development Goals began.
2020 was more than a year of tragedy. It
was also the moment when people everywhere demonstrated what is possible when
humanity strives to be the best version of itself, even in the face of complexity and deep
uncertainty. And in the pages that follow, I
invite you to explore what I saw in 2020: a
UNDP, working hard as part of the UN family,
to be the very best version of itself.
This UNDP Annual Report takes a look at
the results we achieved with countries and
communities through 12 intense months. It
considers the role we played as the technical lead of the UN’s socio-economic response to the COVID-19 crisis, providing
in-country analysis to help 144 countries
4

better understand what action to take, deploying nearly US$1 billion to over 170 countries and territories, helping government
and health systems to function, protecting
jobs and livelihoods and rapidly expanding
social protection.
It takes a look at how we played this role,
pushing the boundaries of how UNDP
thinks, delivers, invests and manages. It
illustrates how #NextGenUNDP institutional and financial investments – such as the
People for 2030 strategy, the UNDP Digital
Strategy, the Global Policy Network, the Accelerator Labs Network and the creation of
the Crisis Bureau – made it possible to offer
a more coherent, rapid response.
The report features UNDP’s global ideas and
research on building forward better, which
we tabled in 2020 to lift the ambition of global policy responses. These ideas range from
introducing a temporary basic income for all
people living in poverty to launching a new,
planetary pressures-adjusted Human Development Index – part of UNDP’s 30th anniversary look at The Next Frontier: Human
Development and the Anthropocene.
These pages also capture how, throughout
2020, UNDP held the thread between the
micro and the macro, addressing urgent local needs and advancing global systemic
change: clearing over 400 football fieldsworth of land of explosives in war-hit Yemen
to enable humanitarian aid to get to those
in most need, for example, while expanding
the Climate Promise – the world’s largest
offer on enhancing Nationally Determined
Contributions – to 115 countries.

Behind the results achieved are the day-today stories and determination of the millions
of people with whom UNDP works. People like
25-year-old Khowla in Somalia, who runs an Alternative Dispute Resolution Centre and mediates community disagreements on everything
from land theft to domestic violence. Or 13-yearold Wajalad from Iraq, who attends a repaired
school that was shattered by war and dreams
of being a doctor like his father. And Juana from
Peru, who raises her voice in a male-dominated
mining sector to call for healthier, more sustainable gold mining.
Their stories intertwined with those of our
UNDP teams in a very personal way in 2020.
During what was a difficult year for nearly everyone, one in which our colleagues lost friends
and family members, people were separated,
schools closed and lives upended, our teams
proved something remarkable: that the United
Nations stays and serves when it matters most.
Finding a way forward from COVID-19 will be
the journey of our generation. And it starts with
a choice: to make the pandemic the tipping
point that leads to transformation for people
and planet – or not. At UNDP (and at the UN),
we have made our choice. I am convinced that
if we commit to listening to and working with the
people closest to the big issues of our day –
from the climate crisis to inequality and conflict
– then we will find a way forward together.
Thank you for taking a look at our work, which
was made possible by the support, generosity
and investment of our many partners. I encourage you to read on.

Photo: UNDP/Michael Atwood

In 2020, a tiny virus humbled the human
race and ignited a development emergency. Though its impacts were felt very differently, the COVID-19 pandemic was – and
continues to be – a uniquely common experience for our generation, with no space
for bystanders.

Achim Steiner
Administrator
United Nations
Development Programme

5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

9 OF UNDP’S 10

82 COUNTRIES

3 MILLION
PEOPLE

largest country programmes
are in crisis settings

supported to strengthen
social protection during the
COVID-19 pandemic

43% women,
in 27 crisis-affected
countries got a job or a
better livelihood in 2020

115 COUNTRIES
covered by the UNDP
Accelerator Lab Network

US$1 BILLION

62 COUNTRIES

to help countries prepare,
respond, and recover
from COVID-19

have Integrated National
Financing Frameworks in
place for the SDGs

6 DAYS

for UNDP to go digital
during the pandemic,
60+ countries supported
to do the same

RANKED NO.1

for transparency across the
United Nations

118 COUNTRIES

are part of UNDP’s
Climate Promise, delivered with

35 PARTNERS

US$5.4 BILLION

16 MILLION

people in 32 countries gained
access to justice

50:50

in revenue

gender parity across
UNDP’s leadership

20,000 PEOPLE
working together across

170 COUNTRIES

62 MILLION

and territories

UNDP 2020
With UNDP support, millions
of people improved their lives.
6

people had access to basic
and financial services

US$355 MILLION
more for development
through efficiency and
institutional performance

74%

of 26 million new voters
registered in 24 countries
were women

7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

A

Working with 170 countries and territories gives UNDP a vast perspective
on the world.
It allows us to understand the relationships between local and global,
between detail and scale, and how one impacts the other.
By collaborating with countries and local communities, we can find and create development solutions that are magnified through our global network.
Think of UNDP as the dash in “micro-macro”. This approach could not be
more relevant, with COVID-19 – a disease caused by a microscopic virus –
impacting the global economy and threatening lives and livelihoods everywhere. Whereas in terms of the climate crisis, each one of us has the power
to push our planet to the brink – and also pull it back from it.
Through our development settings and Signature Solutions, UNDP is able
to tackle the most complex, integrated problem from different angles. And
always with the most macro-level objective in mind: the Sustainable Development Goals.

When micro
meets macro
UNDP’s attention to detail at a global scale
8

Photo: Martin Jjumba/UNCDF 2017

Because no challenge is too big nor too small when we work together.

9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

The year we fought a virus
Managing the COVID-19 crisis, building forward better
COVID-19 heightened awareness of connections between the pandemic and habitat loss, the
climate emergency, growing inequalities, contested democratic values and protracted conflicts
– and the need to act as one in response, taking a big-picture approach.
UNDP’s two COVID-19 response offers – Prepare, Respond, Recover, launched in March, and
Beyond Recovery, Towards 2030, which followed in June – along with their accompanying
rapid financing frameworks, kept the organization and its development investors focused on
the urgent and the important. This supported a fast, scaled and coherent corporate response
to the development emergency of the pandemic, as part of the overall UN system response.
When the virus hit, UNDP went digital in just 6 days so that it could stay and serve and help
others to do the same. Its efforts delivered concrete local results, helping governments and
health systems to keep functioning, protecting jobs and livelihoods and getting cash and basic
services to those in need. All while helping to create the local and global conditions for countries to build forward better in line with Agenda 2030.

UNDP leveraged its $1B Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria partnership to:
Deliver

Train nearly

$200M

280,000

IN PERSONAL PROTECTIVE
AND MEDICAL EQUIPMENT AND
DIAGNOSTICS TO 107 COUNTRIES

HEALTH CARE WORKERS IN
PANDEMIC RESPONSE
Support
Support almost

Protect nearly

1.2M

900,000

INFORMAL
WORKERS

JOBS

56,900

PRIVATE SECTOR
COMPANIES the majority

small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs)

In addition:

1.8M
PEOPLE

directly benefited
from cash transfer
programmes

3M

PEOPLE

got access to critical water
and sanitation services,

HALF OF
THEM WOMEN

788,000
PEOPLE

benefited from
psychosocial support

As the UN’s technical lead on its socio-economic response, UNDP worked with partners on
critical analysis to help guide decision-making:

5,300

COMMUNITY-BASED ORGANIZATIONS
received UNDP support to fight the pandemic and its
“shadows”, including gender-based violence, human
rights abuses and racism and discrimination

UNDP helped

6,700

GOVERNMENT ENTITIES
ACROSS 82 COUNTRIES

144

SOCIO-ECONOMIC
IMPACT ASSESSMENTS
across 97 countries led by UNDP

119

SOCIO-ECONOMIC
RESPONSE PLANS
prepared with UN partners

HALF included
engagement and insight
from the WORLD BANK,
a THIRD from the IMF

Meanwhile, progress was made on UNDP, UN, United Nations Department of Economic and Social
Affairs (UNDESA), and European Union efforts to develop Integrated National Financing Frameworks
in 62 countries, 40% of which are now aligned with countries’ COVID-19 response plans as a result.
These macro-level interventions – made possible through multiple partnerships – are helping to guide
governments’ public policy decisions amid unprecedented complexity. UNDP’s ability to understand
the details and to connect the dots with and for others allows us to create impact at a global scale.

to keep working
(81% subnational entities)

10

11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

We cannot lose sight
of the SDGs

UNDP’s leadership team
For Administrator Achim Steiner and the executive management team, it was “business uninterrupted” in 2020.
With cameras and mics on, they ensured UNDP kept delivering across 170 countries and territories.

Time for a decisive, integrated push
The devastating effects of COVID-19, the climate crisis and rising inequality are not evenly distributed. But they are interconnected – and so must our response be. To that end, UNDP is committed to strengthening and broadening its partnerships. Only then can we be at our best in helping
to build more just societies that afford dignity to all people, ensure a healthy planet, and reach
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030 through a determined Decade of Action.
The SDGs compel UNDP to solve big, systemic puzzles in new ways. We won’t achieve all
17 through incremental change and individual projects. Tabling new research in 2020, UNDP
recognized COVID-19 as a tipping point that poses a profound but predictable threat to SDG
progress yet creates opportunities for change. Ambitious but feasible SDG investments across
governance, social protection, the green recovery and digitalization – the four integrated areas of UNDP’s second COVID-19 response offer – could lift an additional 146 million people
out of extreme poverty by 2030. The majority of these people are in fragile, conflict-affected
states, reinforcing the importance of investing in integrated SDG action now and the implications of not doing so.

1

4

2*

3

5

6

8

9**

11

12

This and other primary research by UNDP in 2020 suggests that while the next frontier for human development is complex and uncertain, it can be navigated with agility, innovation and an
ambitious architecture of interconnected policy interventions and political choices.

7

10

* As of April 2021, Usha Rao-Monari has taken on the role of Under-Secretary-General and Associate Administrator.
** As of February 2021, Khalida Bouzar has taken on the role of Assistant Secretary-General and Director of UNDP’s Regional Bureau for Arab States.

12

1. Achim Steiner Administrator 2. Mourad Wahba UNDP Acting Associate Administrator and ASG for the Regional Bureau for Arab States
3. Angelique M. Crumbly Bureau for Management Services 4. Ahunna Eziakonwa Regional Bureau for Africa 5. Abdoulaye Mar Dieye Senior
Adviser to the Administrator 6. Asako Okai Crisis Bureau 7. Haoliang Xu Bureau for Policy and Programme Support 8. Kanni Wignaraja
Regional Bureau for Asia and the Pacific 9. Sarah Poole Officer-in-Charge of the Regional Bureau for Arab States 10. Luis Felipe López-Calva
Regional Bureau for Latin America and the Caribbean 11. Mirjana Spoljaric Egger Regional Bureau for Europe and the Commonwealth of
Independent States 12. Ulrika Modéer Bureau of External Relations and Advocacy

13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

People, purpose, progress	
Improving inside and out

At the heart of the People for 2030
Strategy lies UNDP’s commitment to a
safe, inclusive working environment.
This includes tackling all forms of discrimination and harassment, including
all forms of sexual misconduct.

In 2020, we also introduced an improved
performance management system, a new
mobility policy and a new career management framework.

From 2018, through UNDP’s People for 2030 Strategy, we significantly stepped up efforts to
attract, retain and develop top talent to help countries deliver on the SDGs. We introduced
a new, entry-level programme for recent graduates, the first African Young Women Leaders
Fellowship Programme, and a stipend for all interns.

UNDP HAS A

80%

83%

$4.5B

50:50

OF GLOBAL STAFF SURVEY
RESPONDENTS

GENDER BALANCE

believe that all employees are
treated with dignity and respect
(23% above external benchmark)

across its Assistant Secretary-General,
Resident Representative and Deputy
Resident Representative groups

33

60%

OF GLOBAL
STAFF SURVEY
RESPONDENTS

IN PROGRAMME
DELIVERY
by UNDP teams
(the second-highest
global rate in 6 years)

are “highly motivated”
in their work
(up 3% since 2018)

UN VOLUNTEERS HAVE
BEEN DEPLOYED
through the UNDP-UNV Young
Professionals with Disabilities Programme

OF COUNTRY OFFICES
have now completed the Gender Seal

(2019-2020)

84%

OF PEOPLE
FOR 2030
STRATEGY

recommendations
were implemented
(by end of 2020)

88%

see their work as
closely aligned
with the
Strategic Plan

Our 2020 Global Staff Survey figures show that UNDP’s teams are pulling in the same direction – an important indicator for long-term success.

14

The Gender Seal recognizes and incentivizes good performance of UNDP teams in delivering
transformational gender equality results.

UNDP ranks in the top 5%
of all organizations
according to the 2020 Global Health 50/50 report and its
Gender and Health Index, “the world’s most comprehensive
index on gender in global health organizations”.
15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

#NextGenUNDP

Accelerator Labs Network
UNDP’s Accelerator Labs Network taps into the power of wider, richer sources of innovations
by exploring the inventions of the women and men closest to poverty, the impacts of climate
change and, most recently, this global pandemic. Thanks to support from key partners like
Germany and Qatar, we have:

Smarter, faster, bolder than before
Since 2018, UNDP management and teams have endeavoured to take an organization that was
built for a different generation and make it effective for this one and ready for the next, working
hard to reorient its mindsets, strategies and capabilities. This required pushing the boundaries
of how UNDP thinks, delivers, invests and manages.
The result is #NextGenUNDP. In 2020, our organization faced the ultimate stress test, but we
were ready, as a result of the investments made across this Strategic Plan period. UNDP continues to be a partner of choice as we move into the second year of our COVID-19 response.

a total of

91 Accelerator Labs covering 115 countries
including 79% of Least Developed and Low-Income Countries
and 66% of Small Island Developing States.

60

ACCELERATOR LABS
(UP TO 2020)

31

NEW ACCELERATOR
LABS LAUNCHED IN 2020

Milestones and results, financial and institutional
UNDP is on track to meet our four-year management efficiency target of 7.3%. Throughout this
Strategic Plan, programme delivery has risen and related institutional expenditures have been
reduced. Our other achievements include:

Balanced budget
for the 4th year in a row

$4.5B

IN PROGRAMME DELIVERY
in 2020, our 2nd highest in 6 years

Nearly

60%

$1.2B

is in complex, fragile contexts

programme delivery, our
highest ever

OF $3.2B BUDGET

IN AFRICA REGION

$355M

IN ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

for development in 2018-2020 through stronger,
more efficient performance

15th

CONSECUTIVE UNQUALIFIED
(CLEAN) AUDIT OPINION

from UNBOA for year ending 2019

16

The network has increased our institutional agility and is helping to trigger a cultural economy of scale – shifting mindsets from projects to portfolios, and from experimentation to
transformation and scale.
Our Labs teams worked in Nepal to help local government report quarantine data, with the
Palestinian people, connecting small-scale women farmers to customers through web platforms, in Rwanda to support the roll-out of robots for COVID-19 treatment centres, and in
Tanzania to help a 3D community design, produce and distribute personal protective equipment to health workers. Through initiatives like these, UNDP’s Accelerator Labs Network
epitomized just how central digital interventions were to our results in 2020 and will be to
the future of development.
17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

Helping the world go digital
“Digital by default” has become part of the UNDP family’s DNA, driven by government demand.
2020 saw a surge in e-everything – from accelerating the reach of telemedicine in Indonesia
and creating digital IDs for migrants in Turkey to expanding social protection platforms in Belize
and fighting fake news in Guinea-Bissau, India, Morocco and beyond.
During COVID-19, UNDP’s support has helped 82 countries to keep functioning remotely, moving essential public services and business continuity online. We obtained 12,900 Zoom licences for partners at 40% below cost and supported approximately 290 entities in their digital
transitions, including the offices of Heads of State, Parliaments and ministries.
To support evidence-based insights, we launched the Data Futures Platform. Drawing on data
sources from across the UN system and partners, the platform builds on UNDP’s long-standing
commitment to leveraging technology and innovation in responding to development challenges.
The pace at which UNDP went digital in 2020 was enabled by the organization’s new Digital
Strategy. Establishing the policies, norms and standards that guide and accompany an inclusive
digital transformation will be a central development challenge in the immediate years ahead.

Saving a planet load of paper
UNDP rolled out an electronic
signature platform in 2020, increasing
organizational efficiency, saving

Human Development
Report 2020
The Next Frontier: Human Development and
the Anthropocene
UNDP’s 2020 HDR marked the second in a trilogy of reports looking at different aspects of
inequality and related crises facing the world, the latest being the COVID-19 pandemic. It took
COVID-19 very little time to expose and exploit overlapping inequalities as well as weaknesses in
social, economic and political systems, threatening to reverse human development by 30 years.
Though humanity has achieved incredible progress, we have taken Earth for granted, destabilizing the very systems upon which we rely for survival. The 2020 HDR advocates that while no
country in the world has yet achieved very high human development without putting immense
strain on the planet, ours could be the first generation to manage this. That’s why UNDP is striving to rethink and reset the relationship between people and the planet in the Anthropocene,
or the Age of Humans.
Nothing short of a great transformation in how we live, work and cooperate is needed for human development to continue for everyone while we also ease planetary pressures. The HDR
explores ways of doing so, with one clear message: “humans, for your own survival, release
your grip on nature”.

the equivalent of 5 million sheets
of paper and reducing our CO2
emissions by 154 metric tonnes.

18

19 19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Our Strategic Plans

Signature Solutions

Delivering on today’s, investing for tomorrow’s

All six working as one

With the pandemic in focus, progress on UNDP’s Strategic Plan remained largely on track in
2020. Designed to be flexible, the Plan enables UNDP to respond to countries’ long-term goals
and urgent needs in times of crisis. It sets out the 3 macro-level development settings across
which UNDP works: eradicating poverty, supporting the growth of sustainable economies, and
strengthening resilience to shocks and crisis. Ever-determined to raise the results bar, UNDP
will put the “how” of development at the core of its next Strategic Plan.

Our six Signature Solutions (pictured below) represent integration in action. They connect in
multiple ways: between each other, up to our 3 development settings, and across all 17 SDGs.
This helps us to tackle the world’s most complex problems from every angle, creating impact
at a greater scale.

Poverty
Keeping people
out of poverty

Governance

Strengthen effective,
inclusive and accountable
governance

Resilience

Enhance national
prevention and recovery
capacities for resilient
societies

20

Environment
Promote nature-based
solutions for asustainable
planet

Energy

Close the energy gap

Gender

Strengthen gender equality
and the empowerment of
women and girls

21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: POVERTY
Safeguarding the most vulnerable first
With support from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) and the
Bangladesh government, UNDP rolled out $1.5M in emergency support for 50,000 poor
urban families. The project recruited 1,200 community workers to install thousands of
handwashing facilities and also sensitized and built the capacities of health officials and
volunteers in 20 cities.
Photo: UNDP Bangladesh/Fahad Kaizer

Because no one
should be left behind
As the pandemic laid bare the deep impacts of inequality, UNDP
prioritized those most left behind, with increased focus on informal,
self-employed, domestic and unpaid care workers, people with
disabilities as well as migrant and internally displaced populations.
Extensive, rapid national and subnational analysis was a hallmark
of 2020, with UNDP as the technical lead of the UN’s socio-economic response. UNDP’s COVID-19 Data Futures Platform was
launched to aid countries’ strategic decision-making. Its Temporary Basic Income simulator shows how much it would cost to lift
vulnerable people out of poverty in each of 132 countries.
UNDP significantly stepped up its research and advocacy on the
fight against poverty and inequality, bringing compelling data
and insight to global policymakers and the public, reinforcing the
case for multilateralism and investing in the SDGs.
UNDP supported 82 countries from India to Nigeria to top up or
expand social assistance programmes. Technical support from
UNDP, UNICEF and GIZ contributed to the Cambodian Government’s first cash transfer for all Cambodians living below the
national poverty line, reaching over 670,000 households. The
multidimensional poverty index tool developed by UNDP and
the Oxford Poverty and Human Development Initiative (OPHI)
helped to identify vulnerable homes in El Salvador.

35

MILLION
people around the
world got access
to basic services
(2018-2020)

27

MILLION
people gained access
to financial services
with UNDP support

144

IMPACT
ASSESSMENTS
carried out with
97 COUNTRIES

UNDP’s systemic approach to livelihoods delivered on jobs, entrepreneurship and crisis-relief. In Turkey, nearly 3,000 Syrian
refugees and host community members found jobs as a result of
UNDP interventions. In Iraq, more than 1.2 million people benefited from the rehabilitation of over 300 public infrastructures. To
date, 4.6 million people have returned to Iraqi towns and districts
with support from the UNDP-led Funding Facility for Stabilization.
We will keep delivering until “no one left behind” means no one.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Poverty in 2020

22

23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Justice for one of many
Josefa’s community and the municipality were profoundly affected by the internal armed
conflict in Guatemala over more than three decades. In a fundamental step towards
achieving recognition and justice for Maya-Ixil women survivors of sexual violence, she
has received legal and psychosocial assistance from specialists, working in coordination
with State institutions and organizations supported by UNDP´s Transitional Justice
Accompaniment Program (PAJUST, in Spanish).
Photo: UNDP Guatemala/Caroline Trutmann

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GOVERNANCE

Because good
governance thinks big
In 2020, the largest share of UNDP’s Signature Solution investment focused on strengthening inclusive, effective and accountable governance. Our work is anchored in SDG 16 and the
fundamental role that governance and the rule of law play in
peaceful, just and inclusive societies, especially when crisis hits.
UNDP responded rapidly to the need for national and local
e-governance systems to ensure the continuity of essential
public services. Working with its UN partners, we supported
Bangladesh, Cameroon, Kenya, Honduras, Malawi, Tajikistan,
Vanuatu and Zambia in strengthening national identity management systems, supporting people’s rights to services and equitable social protection roll-out through a legal identity lens.
We supported people across 46 countries from Bolivia to Vanuatu in exercising their right to vote in spite of the pandemic. As
part of election preparations in Niger, 6 million people attained
civil status through mobile court hearings.
UNDP helped government systems to be more transparent, accountable and responsive. We worked with countries including
Albania, Ethiopia and Kyrgyzstan to meet a growing demand
for free legal aid, and with 40 countries in crisis contexts to
strengthen the rule of law. In the Republic of Congo, UNDP
trained 100 journalists to enhance their capacity to work with
international human rights instruments.

36% of UNDP’s

PROGRAMME
EXPENDITURE
was invested in
governance (in 2020)

33%

OF
PARLIAMENTS

throughout the world
received UNDP support

740,000+
PEOPLE

were registered to vote
through a new electoral
system in Niger, 55%
women (in 2020)

And as ‘information pollution’ spread in 2020, UNDP worked
with multiple countries to map disinformation and strengthen
national responses, including in Chile, Samoa and Ukraine. We
worked with over one third of all countries to tackle hate speech.
These examples are all evidence of UNDP’s full support of good
governance throughout the world.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Governance in 2020

24

25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: RESILIENCE

Because resilience
goes beyond
toughness
UNDP believes in building resilience for today and tomorrow.
From 2018 to 2020, we worked closely with other development, humanitarian and peace partners to help societies tackle
immediate development emergencies, prevent new problems
from escalating and build resilience to navigate the challenges
yet to come.
In Yemen, 1.43 million people had better access to justice after
justice institutions, courts and police stations were rehabilitated. Over 400 football fields-worth of land was cleared of explosives, enabling humanitarian aid to get to those in most need
and freeing the land for farming and other productive uses.
Meanwhile, 50,000 people affected by cyclones Idai and Kenneth in Mozambique were able to produce and buy sufficient
food with support from UNDP.
Our resilience work in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
showed positive signs: following mediation efforts, young people formerly involved in conflict were nearly 40% more likely to
want to pursue vocational training or employment.
UNDP joined with partners to build reconciliation and reintegration into peace agreements in countries such as Colombia
and the Central African Republic. We also helped 79% of countries build social cohesion into their COVID-19 socio-economic
response plans.

Stabilization meets education
13-year-old Wajalal Bassem is from Sinuni, Iraq. His school – Beirut Mixed Secondary –
has been rehabilitated with the support of UNDP’s Funding Facility for Stabilization.
He is now working towards a brighter future and has plans to become a famous doctor
like his father.
Photo: UNDP Iraq/Claire Thomas

26

3 MILLION
PEOPLE

43% women, across
27 crisis-affected
countries got a job or a
better livelihood (in 2020)

40

COUNTRIES
in crisis contexts had
stronger rule of law and
human rights systems

34

COUNTRIES
were better positioned
to prevent violent
extremism

This all goes to show how the risks facing people and planet
– climate change, conflict, rupturing inequalities, disease – are
increasingly systemic, sustained and connected. So too, therefore, must be our response.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Resilience in 2020

27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENVIRONMENT

Because we owe our
planet everything
The pursuit of balance between people and planet is a thread
that runs through all of UNDP’s work. Our 2020 Human Development Report included a new planetary pressures-adjusted
Human Development Index, which offers a future-focused way
to quickly assess a country’s progress that places the planet’s
well-being at the heart of advancing human development.
From 2018 to 2020, UNDP partnered with environment and
climate vertical funds – including the Global Environment Facility (GEF), the Green Climate Fund and the Adaptation Fund
– and with sister UN agencies to promote an inclusive green
economy approach to building forward better from COVID-19.
UNEP, UNCDF, Germany, Morocco, Sweden and UNDP together launched the Global Fund for Coral Reefs, an innovative blended finance mechanism with the ambition to mobilize
$500M for conservation and reef-dependent communities.
Work also continued on the ground, from ridge to reef, to tackle the climate-nature crisis with a growing number of partners.
UNDP’s Climate Promise is helping 118 countries to enhance
their national climate pledges under the Paris Agreement.
In Comoros, programmes co-managed with communities
nearly tripled fish catches, while support for the law on protected areas led to the creation of the National Parks Agency, which is illustrative of UNDP’s integrated approach across
Signature Solutions.

$1.9B
BILLION

in climate finance
accessed by 150
countries with UNDP
support (2018-2020)

56,000
FARMERS

and family members
adapted to climate
change in Bhutan

73

MILLION ACRES
of protected areas in
57 countries were
managed more
sustainably (equivalent
to 60 Grand Canyon
National Parks)
in 2018-2020

We also worked with conflict-affected communities, including
in Lebanon, Libya and Sudan, to restore people’s access to critical environmental services, including water and solar energy.
Saving water with innovation
Around 14,000 farmers from provinces in east and west Azerbaijan are participating
in a joint initiative between the governments of Iran and Japan and UNDP to restore
Lake Urmia through the use of modern irrigation techniques. To date, water usage
has decreased by 35% in pilot sites as a result of this project.
Photo: UNDP Iran/Sadaf Nikzad

28

Given how infinitely indebted we are towards our damaged
planet, ignoring our environmental responsibilities is no longer an option.
UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Environment in 2020

29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENERGY
A lesson in energy efficiency
The huge energy retrofit at the University of Sarajevo was made possible through UNDP’s
Green Economic Development (GED) Project, funded by Sweden, with many local and
national partners involved. This kind of profitable investment provides short- and
long-term benefits for students and faculty, increases green jobs, and reduces energy
consumption, heat loss and air pollution.
Photo: UNDP BiH/Sulejman Omerbasic

Because sustainable
energy will fuel the
future
With more than half of humanity on lockdown during 2020, a decline in energy demand was inevitable. But as economies get
back to work, the danger is that they will get back to normal,
stimulating fossil fuel industries. These non-renewable energies
are a short-term band-aid that will reinforce the collision course
with nature. Instead, we should be investing in the future and pursuing a more resilient recovery, powered by renewable energy.
UNDP recognizes that the age of fossil fuels has peaked and
the energy transition has begun, so it worked hard with governments throughout this strategic period to create better energy
options and choices and to de-risk the political, social and economic paths to taking them.
We helped countries to identify and establish policies and regulations for large-scale clean energy investments. In Tunisia,
UNDP modelling identified more than $500M worth of savings
over 20 years in solar and wind energy investments. From São
Tomé and Príncipe to Turkmenistan, UNDP supported countries
in preparing national energy policies. For example, in Armenia,
UNDP and the European Investment Bank supported regulatory
changes to increase the energy efficiency of buildings.
UNDP is also focused on closing the energy gap, having
helped over 5 million rural households to get access to clean,
affordable energy since 2018. In communities affected by conflict, including in Somalia and Yemen, almost 350,000 people
in crisis-affected countries had energy access re-established.

290

MILLION TONNES
of CO2 emissions will be
avoided (equivalent to
emissions from nearly
4 million tanker trucks’
worth of gasoline)

91

COUNTRIES
that are part of UNDP’s
Climate Promise are
planning increased
energy action

5

MILLION

HOUSEHOLDS
gained access to clean,
affordable energy
(2018-2020)

To fuel the energy response further, UNDP’s Peoples’ Climate
Vote (PCV) affirmed the public appetite for change: most respondents want governments to invest in sustainable energy.
UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Energy in 2020

30

31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GENDER
Accelerating career prospects for all
Through our Accelerator Lab in Kaya, Burkina Faso, UNDP sought solutions to increase
the employability of young women and men. With UNDP intervention, this initiative
is also developing the leadership and advocacy capacities of entrepreneurial young
women through training and work experience.
Photo: UNDP Africa/Aurélia Rusek

Because gender
equality is irrefutable
UNDP is committed to shattering the glass ceiling of gender
inequality.

80

In 2020, we launched the COVID-19 Global Gender Response Tracker with UN Women, tracking over 3,100 socio-economic, leadership and political participation measures across 219 countries and territories. Its findings reveal
systemic inequalities, such as the fact that only 8 countries
in the world have a 50-50 gender balance in their COVID-19
task forces, despite women making up over 70% of health
and social workers globally.

supported by UNDP to
tackle gender-based
violence

As the technical lead for the UN’s socio-economic response
framework, UNDP helped to integrate gender across all its key
areas and worked with 41 countries on gender-responsive social
protection – twice the number supported in 2019. UNDP also
doubled the number of countries we worked with to fight gender-based violence in 2020, including with the European Union
and UN partners through the Spotlight Initiative, and applied
its gender marker in selecting initiatives to support through its
COVID-19 Rapid Finance Facility. UN Women was our primary
partner, with collaboration across 101 country offices in 2020.
In Kyrgyzstan, UNDP helped to establish the Council on Women’s
Rights and Countering Violence, the country’s first institutionalized body to monitor and inform policymaking on gender-based
violence. Meanwhile in Bangladesh, UNDP supported 1.2 million
women – 1 in 43 – to gain access to financial services.

COUNTRIES

50% OF

ALL VOTERS
registered through
UNDP electoral support
were women (2020)

3,100

POLICIES
on COVID-19 tracked
across 200+ countries
and territories for
gender impact

We also worked with 114 of our Climate Promise countries to
integrate gender into their workplans, and with 81 countries to
advance women’s leadership in natural resource management.
Despite this progress, the remaining gaps are clear, and the
need for universal gender equality and women and girls’ empowerment remains without question.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Gender in 2020

32

33

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Delivering on our
Climate Promise	

Deeper understanding

The consensus on climate has gone from crisis to emergency. UNDP’s Climate Promise now
stands as the world’s largest offer of support for countries to revise and enhance their national
climate pledges (Nationally Determined Contributions, or NDCs) under the Paris Agreement.
Working with over 35 partners, UNDP is currently supporting:

After the launch of the Mission 1.5 online game, which collected players’
votes on the climate policies they
wanted their country to enact, UNDP
worked with UN agencies and NGOs
to develop a learning module to elevate people’s understanding of solutions to the climate crisis.

7

25

from Arab States

from Latin
America and the
Caribbean

17

Peoples’ Climate Vote

from Europe and
Central Asia

42

27

from Africa

118

from Asia and
the Pacific

COUNTRIES

Energy response
Energy continues to be the most common sector in countries’ national climate pledges. Within
the Climate Promise, 91 countries (79%) are updating or adding energy-related actions and/or
targets to their updated NDCs. These targets provide the blueprint for making economies cleaner and safer and ensuring energy access for all.

Greater integration

In 2020, UNDP and the University of Oxford conducted
the world’s biggest poll on climate change: the Peoples’
Climate Vote (PCV). Survey data was collected through
the Mission 1.5 online game. This new, unconventional
approach to polling prompted a loud and clear response
from the global public.
The majority of people – 64% of respondents – agreed
that climate change is a global emergency.
The most popular climate policies were: conserve forests
and land; use solar, wind and renewable power; climate
friendly farming techniques; and invest more money in
green business and jobs.
This research puts the public at odds with government
spending. For example, according to UNEP and Oxford
University research, only 18% of COVID-19 recovery
spending is going towards green investment.
With the support of UNDP, its Climate Promise and its partners, it’s time to close the gap between ambition and action.

Ambition into action
COVID-19:

Gender:

Youth:

Over

97%
OF ALL
COUNTRIES

75% OF
COUNTRIES

80
COUNTRIES

34

are leveraging our support
to guide government efforts
to build back better from the
pandemic.

(114 out of 118) participating in
UNDP’s Climate Promise are
working to integrate gender
into their NDC revisions.

are including or increasing
child and youth-related
priorities in their revised
NDCs, compared to 40% of
first-generation NDCs.

Based on the immense impact of its Climate Promise, UNDP
is helping countries turn their ambitious pledges into action at
speed and scale. This includes a bigger focus on net-zero and
climate-resilient pathways, while mobilizing people to ensure
they remain included in the development process.

35

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

SAMSUNG

Future partnerships today
Working with the private sector

The Samsung Global Goals app, jointly developed with UNDP, is now installed on over 100 million devices
worldwide. This partnership has generated $1.5M and engaged new audiences with the SDGs. With the
#Generation17 initiative, visionary young leaders from around the world are raising awareness about how
they are helping to solve some of the world’s most urgent problems.

2020 saw significant strategic private-sector engagement in pursuing the SDGs, including
through UNDP partnerships. We continued to develop new partnerships for existing initiatives,
such as The Lion’s Share, the Connecting Business Initiative, and Youth Co: Lab, and also built
new ones, including the COVID-19 Private Sector Global Facility, partnering with the United Nations Global Compact and the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) to develop innovative
public partnerships for COVID-19 recovery.
With support from private-sector actors like Boston Consulting Group and UPS, the joint UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and UNDP Connecting Business Initiative have been assisting business networks with over 50,000 member companies in a worldwide
COVID-19 response, including guidance for the private sector in 4 continents. Meanwhile, the
Connecting Business Initiative (CBi) and its partner business groups raised over $30M to fund
the distribution of grocery vouchers to over 1 million urban residents in the Metro Manila Area.

THE LION’S SHARE
The Lion’s Share Fund added Gucci and Cartier to its partnership roster in 2020. The fund also
launched the COVID-19 Response: Resilience in Wildlife Community Grants to support communities
dependent on wildlife-based tourism that have been severely impacted by the pandemic.

HEART 17
In 2020, HEART 17 built its digital platform and began testing its functionality with youth
drawn from UNDP’s networks. The purpose of HEART 17 was deepened to focus
on amplifying the voices of youth leaders on topics related to the environment and
inequality. Brands supporting the initiative include H&M, Spotify and Mojang (Minecraft).

MICROSOFT
UNDP advanced its digital transformation partnerships for environmental sustainability

Since 2018, UNDP supported governments and the private sector to finance the SDGs, including through its Finance Sector Hub. The Tax Inspectors Without Borders programme, a joint
effort by UNDP and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
helped 45 countries to collect $775M in revenue in 5 years.

and innovative data management solutions for the COVID-19 response. We are working
with Microsoft to facilitate access to sustainable energy, biodiversity and ecosystem
benefits in countries challenged by climate change. As part of the partnership, the
GEF Small Grants Programme is collaborating with Project 15 at Microsoft to create
opportunities for community-based initiatives to accelerate innovation and scale up
impacts on species conservation, sustainable fisheries and agriculture.

CITI FOUNDATION
Co-led by UNDP and Citi Foundation, Youth Co:Lab establishes a common agenda to
empower and invest in youth, so that they can accelerate the SDGs through leadership,
social innovation and entrepreneurship. Since 2017, the programme has been
implemented in 25 countries across Asia-Pacific, reached over 75,000 participants,
benefited over 7,120 young social entrepreneurs, helped launch or improve over 1,000
Completed Maps

SDG Impact

youth-led social enterprises, and collaborated with over 192 ecosystem partners.

Ongoing Maps
Planned Maps

Opening new frontiers on investment

COVID-19 PRIVATE SECTOR GLOBAL FACILITY

In 2020, SDG Impact helped investors, bond issuers and enterprises make significant, measurable contributions towards the SDGs. Standards have been set to codify and confirm the best
practices for these groups to contribute to the goals.

The aim of UNDP’s new facility is to foster and enhance public–private partnerships and solutions
at both the global and national levels. UNDP joined forces with the ICC, UN Global Compact, PwC,
Microsoft and DHL to develop the facility, which is tailored to countries’ specific needs and supports
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) to advance green and digital technologies. Its work

The SDG Investor Platform, co-created by UNDP’s flagship SDG Impact initiative and the Secretary-General’s Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance, makes the market intelligence generated through the SDG Investor Maps available to investors interested
in SDG-enabling investment opportunities. The platform currently provides insights into 207
investment opportunity areas in 15 countries, with each country involved expected to mobilize
approximately $50M towards the Goals.
3636

directly supports the progress of SDG 8, SDG 13, SDG 17 and the COVID-19 response.

DIGITAL GIVING
UNDP has also revitalized opportunities for individuals to mobilize resources through
crowdfunding campaigns that provide tangible support to the most vulnerable. Over 15
campaigns were launched in 2020 alone.

37
37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Proactive presence
throughout the pandemic

UN family stays strong
Delivering as one in a one-off year
Throughout 2020, UNDP invested in deepening its UN partnerships. These included joining
forces with UNICEF on innovation, youth and entrepreneurship; the International Labour Organization (ILO) on work, both present and future; the International Organization for Migration (IOM)
and United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) on livelihoods and digital solutions for people on the move; the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) on finding a balance between people
and planet; the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the Broadband Commission
to advance inclusive digital nations; and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights (OHCHR) and the UN Development Coordination Office (DCO) to advance a
human rights-based approach in COVID-19 response plans.

A “remote” UNGA week saw the
appointment of Afropop artist Yemi
Alade (top left) as UNDP Goodwill
Ambassador, building on her work
as an advocate for equality, women’s
empowerment and a sustainable planet.

Photo: Emmanuel Oyeleke

Our unified efforts to help countries tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts are another
example of UN Reform in action. UN country teams serving 162 countries and territories came
together in an unprecedented way in 2020, supporting authorities to address the multiple impacts of the pandemic. As the UN’s socio-economic technical lead, UNDP was part of a critical
triad with OCHA and WHO and worked more closely than ever with its development system
counterparts. We co-led the development and implementation of socio-economic assessments
and contributed to developing and costing response plans.

UNDP Goodwill Ambassadors and celebrity advocates

Looking ahead, UNDP will work alongside WHO and other UN entities to support equity, resilience and sustainability in COVID-19 vaccination programmes.

$131.3M
administered by UNDP
on behalf of the UN
Resident Coordinator
System in 2020

4.19 out of
5 stars
for client satisfaction,
recorded by new UN RC
System Service Portal

$1.5B
capitalization of the UN
Multi-Partner Trust Fund
portfolios in 2020 (highest
ever; 20% increase
compared to 2019)

$10.3M
invested in RC
System by UNDP
for 2020

Our top 10 UN partners working together across our Signature Solutions and beyond were:

38

Photos: Justin Wu

UNDP also delivered services to the wider UN and administered funding on its behalf:

When life went virtual in March 2020,
our influencers were able to spread
awareness in new ways, first by
helping to clarify misinformation around
COVID-19. UNDP’s #HalfTheWorld
celebrity campaign exposed the
growing inequalities caused by the
pandemic and climate change for those
many millions lacking social protection.
Led by Goodwill Ambassador Padma
Lakshmi (pictured centre, left of actor
David Oyelowo), it attracted 237 media
outlets with an audience of over 152
million, plus 21 million on social media.

2020 also featured the star-studded
launch of the Eyes on the Goals event
to kick off the Decade of Action.
Organized in collaboration with
Sustainable Partners, it included digital
videos by celebrities and influencers
from the world of film, music and sport
that helped boost global support for the
SDGs. (Left: comedic actor, writer and
producer Rainn Wilson)

39

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Top 2020 UNDP partners

Investing in development
Our invaluable partners
We rely on the support of our partners more than ever as we help lift the world out of the pandemic
and build forward better to the future of development.

Top partners
We wish to thank all our partners, beginning with the top 15:

European
Union

Germany

Sweden

Global
Environment
Facility

Argentina

The Global
Fund

United
Kingdom

Japan

Norway

United
States

Switzerland

Dominican
Republic

Netherlands

Green
Climate
Fund

Denmark

50% of core backed by multi-year pledges
$346M in contributions to UNDP’s core resources
came from multi-year pledges

Highlights
in 2020

483M
482M

European Union
Germany
UN Pooled Funds
Global Environment Facility
The Global Fund
Japan
United States
Dominican Republic
Green Climate Fund
Sweden
Argentina
United Kingdom
Norway
Switzerland
UN Agencies
Netherlands
Denmark
Italy
Canada
Ukraine
Egypt
Republic of Korea
World Bank Group
Honduras
India
Colombia
Saudi Arabia
Cameroon
Australia
Montreal Protocol

438M
370M
323M
306M
262M
238M
236M
197M
176M
162M
116M
112M
105M
95M
86M
75M
72M
70M
59M
59M
52M
49M
41M
39M
36M
34M
32M
32M
100M

Regular Resources

Other Resources

(Millions of US$)
200M

300M

400M

500M

Funding Windows
UNDP’s Funding Windows are a pooled funding mechanism for partners to provide thematic support for the
SDGs. Special thanks go to our top 2020 Funding Windows Contributors:

43% increase in government financing
Contributions from government financing
increased by 43% ­(to $1.1B from $790M in 2019)

70.9M

60M
Flexible to window, sub-window, region or country

21% increase in Funding Windows
Contributions to Funding Windows increased by
21% (to $125M from $103M in 2019)

Earmarked to projects
40M
22.2M
20M
3.3M

Ko
r
of

Re
pu

bl

ic

Ki
d
te
Un
i

(Millions of US$)

ea

m

2M

ng
do

ur
bo

la
er
tz
Sw
i

2.6M

g

nd

s

5.1M

nd
er
la
Ne
th

de
n
Sw
e

7.1M

Lu
xe
m

All financial figures are provisional as of April 2021 and subject to change until the completion of audited financial statements.

De
nm
ar

an
Ge
rm

40

k

11.7M

y

77% increase in pooled UN funds
Contributions received as a Participating UN
Organization (PUNO) increased by 77% since 2019

41

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Core brings more

Top core contributions
Thank you to our top 10 core contributors of 2020:

Short-term flexibility, long-term results
Regular or core resources are funds provided to UNDP that are not earmarked for a specific
project or theme.

Germany

United States

Japan

United
Kingdom

Sweden

Switzerland

Canada

Denmark

Netherlands

In the best of times, development requires a clear, strategic long-term focus as well as the ability
to tackle emerging challenges and opportunities, COVID-19 being an extreme example. Core
funding makes both possible.

Core resources underpin UNDP’s operational capacity,
networks and presence at the global, regional and country
ccc
levels, across 170 countries and territories

This allows us to provide on-demand support for governments as part of the broader UN
System support.
Being the most flexible funding modality, core enables UNDP to lay the foundational work
in programme design that will help attract more resources from other sources. Core’s flexibility allowed us to quickly repurpose existing core funds to provide direct support for the
needs of countries, including those in crisis settings.

Norway

Core, COVID-19 and beyond
Responding to a development crisis
Core funding is central to UNDP’s long-standing relationship and trust with governments before, during and after a crisis hits. Across regions, UNDP worked with donors and partners in
2020 to reprogramme core resources to jump-start COVID-19 response actions on the ground
and catalyse more, much-needed resources.

Our core strength is growing
Core funding has declined since the last global financial crisis, and some countries have announced deep cuts in their funding for development, also known as Official Development
Assistance. But UNDP’s trusted partners are bucking that trend.
In 2020, we received

$696 MILLION in core contributions
(a 13% increase of $79M from 2019)

This included a record 126% increase from Germany, with increases also from Denmark, Japan, US, Finland, Czech Republic and Israel. Antigua and Barbuda, Cuba, Iran and Latvia
returned as contributors or began contributing to UNDP’s core resources.

42

TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
The introduction of a COVID-19 Project Marker enabled UNDP
to report on the contribution of core resources and its impact on
our integrated response.
WHERE THE NEED IS GREATEST
UNDP continues to ensure that the majority (at least 85%, as mandated by its Executive Board) of core is spent on programmes in
the poorest countries, while also addressing pockets of poverty
and vulnerability in middle-income countries, particularly when
these impact women and marginalized communities.
PROMOTING UN NORMS AND PRINCIPLES
Core resources enable UNDP’s global presence and operations: present and actively engaging with governments, building trusted relationships to promote UN values, including human
rights and the principle of leaving no one behind.

43

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

How the world views us
Recognition, whether external or internal, helps UNDP stay on track and keep improving. Below are some
of the awards and acknowledgements we received in 2020.

Samsung
Global Goals
app
Global Goals app on over
100 million smartphones.
Partnership generated
$1.5M in donations for
UNDP’s development
work

UNDP
Partnership
Survey

80% OF 3,100+ PARTNERS

believe that UNDP advocate
a common UN position on
important development issues

Ranked UNDP as

THE MOST TRANSPARENT
of UN agencies

44

Honorable Mention

surveyed across 140 countries
see UNDP as a valued partner

75% OF RESPONDENTS

71%

see UNDP as providing
integrated solutions in
collaboration with its
partners

HIGHEST PERFORMANCE
by UNDP among all
Multilateral Fund
implementation agencies

Consumer Electronic Show
(CES)
2020 Innovation Award
Honoree

CSO50 annual award for
outstanding innovation
and business value in
cybersecurity, THE 6TH
TIME UNDP HAS WON
(more than any other
organization)

Shortlisted for SDG Impact
at Responsible Business
Awards 2020

UNDP-DCO
survey
73% OF RESPONDENTS

consider UNDP services to
be ”satisfactory” or “very
satisfactory” (based on 131
countries and 3 regional offices)

172 OF UNDP’S 249
DECENTRALIZED EVALUATIONS

completed in 2020 were reviewed by
the IEO as being 84% “satisfactory”
or “moderately satisfactory”
(a 10%+ increase since 2019)

Ashden Award for Humanitarian
Energy recognized UNDP’s work
to boost entrepreneurship for
Yemini women and communities’
access to affordable energy

45

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Europe and Central Asia

Global, regional, local

•	 Istanbul Regional Hub

UNDP’s network brings the world together, driving sustainable impact and results for people and planet.

Africa

Latin America and the Caribbean
•	 Panama Regional Hub
•	 Argentina
•	 Barbados and the Eastern
Caribbean (covering
Anguilla, Antigua and
Barbuda, the British Virgin
Islands, the Commonwealth
of Dominica, Grenada,
Monserrat, Saint Lucia,
St. Kitts and Nevis,
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines)
•	 Bolivia
•	 Brazil
•	 Chile
•	 Colombia
•	 Costa Rica
•	 Cuba
•	 Dominican Republic

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Ecuador
El Salvador
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica (covering The Bahamas,
Belize, Bermuda, Cayman Islands,
Jamaica, Turks and Caicos Islands)
Mexico
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Suriname
Trinidad and Tobago (covering
Aruba, Curacao, Sint Maarten,
Trinidad and Tobago)
Uruguay
Venezuela

North America
•	 New York headquarters

•	 Addis Ababa Regional Service
Centre
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Representation Offices
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

46

Arab States

Angola 
Benin 
Botswana 
Burkina Faso 
Burundi 
Cameroon
Cape Verde 
Central African Republic 
Chad 
Comoros 
Congo (Dem. Republic of)
Congo (Republic of) 
Côte d’Ivoire 
Equatorial Guinea 
Eritrea 
Eswatini 
Ethiopia 
Gabon 
Gambia 
Ghana 
Guinea 
Guinea-Bissau 
Kenya 
Lesotho 
Liberia 
Madagascar 
Malawi 
Mali 
Mauritania 
Mauritius and Seychelles 
Mozambique 
Namibia 
Niger 
Nigeria 
Rwanda 
São Tomé and Príncipe 
Senegal 
Sierra Leone 
South Africa 
South Sudan 
Tanzania 
Togo 
Uganda 
Zambia 
Zimbabwe

Brussels Representation Office (covering European Union)
Geneva Representation Office
Nordic Representation Office (covering Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden)
Tokyo Representation Office
Washington Representation Office

•	 Amman Regional Hub
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Algeria
Bahrain
Djibouti
Egypt
Iraq
Jordan
Kuwait
Lebanon
Libya
Morocco
Programme of Assistance
to the Palestinian People
Saudi Arabia
Somalia
Sudan
Syria
Tunisia
Yemen

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Albania 
Armenia 
Azerbaijan 
Belarus 
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Cyprus
Georgia 
Kazakhstan 
Kosovo (as per UNSCR 1244)
Kyrgyzstan 
Moldova 
Montenegro 
North Macedonia
Serbia
Tajikistan 
Turkey 
Turkmenistan 
Ukraine 
Uzbekistan

Asia and the Pacific
•	 Bangkok Regional Hub
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
Democratic People’s Republic of
Korea
India
Indonesia
Iran
Lao PDR
Malaysia (covering Brunei
Darussalam, Malaysia, Singapore)
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pacific Office in Fiji (covering
Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji,
Kiribati, Republic of the Marshall
Islands, Nauru, Palau, Solomon
Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu)
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa (covering Samoa, Cook
Islands, Niue, Tokelau)
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Viet Nam

Policy Centres
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Nairobi Global Centre on Resilient Ecosystems and Desertification
Oslo Governance Centre
Istanbul International Center for Private Sector in Development
Seoul Policy Centre for Knowledge Exchange through SDG Partnerships
Singapore Global Centre for Technology, Innovation and Sustainable Development

47

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

United Nations Development Programme
One United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017
www.undp.org
© UNDP 2021
48

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

