UNITED NATIONS
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ANNUAL REPORT 2019
1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Foreword

Development choices
will define the future
I write this foreword from home. The doors to UNDP’s Headquarters in New York are
locked, as are the doors of our offices across the world, for the first time in our history. But
that does not mean we are closed for business. In the past three months, I have seen an
organization that is more dedicated and vibrant than ever as we work remotely with our
partners to tackle the unprecedented impacts of the COVID-19 global pandemic.

Policy Network, remotely connecting 8,800 specialists across the organization and a further 5,000 beyond, and our Digital Strategy, helped to keep our teams operational and our
doors ‘open’ during these past months.

Looking back, 2019 seems like a year from a much simpler era. But just like the decade it
ended, it was a year of turbulence. City by city, people came onto the streets to protest
rising inequality, stretched social services, a deficit of trust and a damaged climate. Today,
a few short months later, the same streets are quiet, and life has changed utterly for billions
of people on the planet.

In 2019, UNDP demonstrated the importance of economies of scale in tackling the world’s
biggest development challenges. Our Climate Promise is an illustration. In September 2019,
we promised to support at least 100 countries to raise their climate ambitions within a year.
By February 2020, we achieved our target. Our collaboration with the Government of Bangladesh saved nearly two billion workdays by digitalizing access to public services, while
in Yemen, UNDP and the World Bank created over 10.7 million workdays of emergency
employment and helped to stabilize the local economy.

The COVID-19 pandemic has laid bare the consequences of building societies on the
backs of people who have less; of weak health systems, tattered safety nets, violence
against women and digital divides. It, like climate change, offers proof — if proof were still
needed — that all life on Earth is connected.

#NextGenUNDP is designed to achieve integrated results at speed and at scale during
both quiet and turbulent times. As always, we are stronger together. That’s why UNDP
works with passion and purpose, hand-in-hand with our sister UN agencies under the leadership of the UN Resident Coordinator in the countries we serve and with an increasing
array of public and private partners.

Last year, through an intense period of UN reform, UNDP worked hard to support the
people of 170 countries and territories around the world to get on their feet and stay
there. We continued to push the boundaries of how we think, deliver, invest and manage
as #NextGenUNDP to deliver on our Strategic Plan, reaffirming UNDP’s financial stability
and taking steps to make UNDP nimbler and more responsive. Today, as we support the
UN System and help countries prepare, respond, and recover in the face of COVID-19, our
investments are proving their worth.

All of our skills will be tested as the world charts a course through COVID-19. If inspiration is
needed, the 75th anniversary of the United Nations this year should provide it. From shepherding de-colonization to eradicating smallpox, the UN has set the standard for things we
take for granted every day.

The 2019 Human Development Report’s deep dive into the changing faces of inequality
sharpened our thinking and action, including on social protection. With nine out of our ten
largest programmes in fragile or crisis-affected countries and a new Crisis Bureau in place,
our humanitarian and peacebuilding partnerships deepened.

2

UNDP/Positive Mass Films

With the Accelerator Lab Network, established across 78 countries in just 12 months, UNDP’s creativity in sourcing local solutions to tackle complexity is now stronger and available to our partner countries and the broader UN Development System. UNDP’s Global

It is time to write the story of the next 75 years and chart the way to the Future of Development. UNDP is committed to making it one we will be proud to have our children read aloud.
I hope that this snapshot of our progress in 2019 will encourage you to join us.

Achim Steiner
Administrator
United Nations Development Programme
3

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

UNDP 2019
With UNDP support, millions of people improved their lives.

17 MILLION
people had better access to
basic services

$5 BILLION
in revenue

5 MILLION
people, one third women, in
28 crisis-affected countries got a
job or a better livelihood

17,000 PEOPLE
working across

170 COUNTRIES
and territories

62 COUNTRIES
supported to strengthen
social protection

110 COUNTRIES
joined UNDP’s
Climate Promise

4 MILLION
97 COUNTRIES
strengthened women’s leadership in
natural resource management

Partnered with

103 COUNTRIES
on integrated
Sustainable Development
Goals support

4

people in 27 countries gained
access to justice

65 PARLIAMENTS
enhanced their legislative and
oversight capacities

334 MILLION

40%

of UNDP’s portfolio
invested in governance—
the largest share

48%

hectares of landscapes and
marine habitats protected,
improved or restored

of all new voters registered with
UNDP support were women
5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

The
future
development
What
is theoffuture
of
development?

Ebistiantiore consequo torera dolore parum resent quis mos eosti derore nonsedit, cum
quae. Ucipsunt qui dolor similiquidel illecusant.
future
is not what
it used to
A crisisveliquodit
can change
the world
one day
next,
with
Ris The
audae
nimporit
la natenis
eatbe.omnia
eatum
ea etfrom
omnihic
to toet,thecon
eturit
tragicempersp
consequences.
landent
erspere et ut vendios eaquas aut occatio dolupta turitibus dolum dolupti
ape officiusam aborem voluptatum repro con rehenim iliqui rehende vendant, omnimpo
But the actions countries take as they prepare, respond and recover in the face of the COVID-19
reptae porat ea volut volore plite nitate pora nobistem rest, con con res qui tem est, sequi
pandemic will lay the foundations for a fair and just transition to the future—a new social contract.
adio. Edit est, et alignis quis anit adignimi, quo iliquat ut pa debis eiur?
That islabo.
why, Nem
as theaut
UN’s
leadingra
agency
on development,
UNDP
is notratur,
working
to help people
Occullut
eumque
et dicide
sit qui acipsus,
omnim
elesequasit
liam,
“get back
Normal
was not
good enough.
sequunt
etur to
asnormal”.
ipsus eos
asperum
re suntor
soluptam sus.
Xero odis quoditiunti dolupta sincium quibus, et eseque verspeles solupti nciduci endipsam
With the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as our compass, we want people to get back
to something better—a future everyone believes in, where no one is left behind.

Ten
Tenshort
shortyears
yearsto
to
acceleratethe
theSDGs
SDGs
accelerate

2019, just like the decade it brought to a close, was marked by a wave of protests. Movements
continents
lifted the
lid on for
people’s
disillusionment,
needs.
Theacross
2010sallwere
a tumultuous
decade
development.
For theindignity
UN and and
the unmet
entire world,
Today,
the
streets
may
be
silent
but
the
message
still
echoes:
we
need
a
decade
of
action
2019 became the final year before the last decade of Agenda 2030 and the Sustainableto
accelerate progress
towards
everything
Sustainable
Development
Goals stand for.
This is
Development
Goals. The
Decade
of Actionthe
aims
to: mobilize
everyone everywhere,
demand
a
race
against
time,
and
the
hurdles
just
got
higher.
urgency and ambition, supercharge ideas to solutions, and ultimately accelerate progress

towards
the
SDGs.
But itDevelopment
has become Report
a race against
– for
all of us.
If we
continue
the
As the
2019
Human
sets out,time
policy
makers
have
a battery
of at
choiccurrent
pace,
the 2020s
by way,
without
progress
to meet
each target.
es that,
integrated
in will
the fly
right
willenough
translate
into lifelong
investments
in equality and
sustainability. Making those choices starts with a commitment to tackling the complexity of
UNDP’s
role
is that of pacemaker. Through our ability to integrate across the SDGs, we are
human
development.
putting in place new ways for governments, businesses and civil society to power ahead –
UNDP’s
role is to
create
choices
in the face of
complexity,
whatever
the development
context,
faster
and farther
than
before.
By constantly
driving,
adapting
and scaling
our development
and to
conditions
for by
new
foryear
governments,
impact,
wecreate
can allthe
reach
the SDGs
theways
target
of 2030. businesses and civil society to
power ahead, together, faster and further than before.

MONITOR AND
REPORT
PROGRESS

6

AUDIENCEFOCUSED
PARTNERSHIPS

IMPLEMENT

7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Evolving #NextGenUNDP

Speed and scale
Learning from pilot projects in Uruguay, Serbia and the Aral Sea, UNDP is assembling unconventional teams and techniques to accelerate the pace and scale of development progress. In
2019, we set up 60 Country Support Platforms—40 of them, including in North Macedonia, Pakistan, Paraguay and Somalia, are considered true “engines of integration” by evaluation experts.
The Islamabad Urban Platform, for example, brings together civil society, public institutions, and
the private sector to co-create large-scale infrastructure, tackling growing urbanization challenges and water conservation at the same time. This model is now being replicated in other
major Pakistani cities.

The world, the Sustainable Development Goals and #NextGenUNDP have something in common: each functions as a system.
No matter how well a system works, there’s always room for improvement. In 2019, #NextGenUNDP
continued to refocus an organization born into a different generation, making us ready for
this one and the next. Pushing the boundaries of how we think, invest, manage and deliver to
drive progress towards the SDGs.
We are managing complexity better by joining the dots across sectors, communities and
countries. By expanding development choices, finding whole-of-society solutions, and harnessing the power of data tools and analytical models.

UNDP’s Accelerator Labs and
Global Policy Network
The UNDP Accelerator Labs network is the world’s largest learning network on development
challenges, working with people, governments and the private sector to reimagine development for the 21st century. This is both core to our work and a key part of #NextGenUNDP’s
improved business model. With a mammoth effort, and the founding investment of Germany
and Qatar, the 60 Labs are already up and running, with development solutions being examined by teams of entrepreneurs, engineers, data scientists and grassroots innovators across
78 countries and territories.

#NextGenUNDP is an alias for our innovative
thinking, investing, managing and delivering

From addressing the informal economy in light of COVID-19, to tackling air pollution in India
and making electric vehicles more accessible in Namibia, the Labs are at work delivering development results and garnering attention. In 2019, they won the Apolitical 2019 Global Public
Service Teams of the Year award for evidence-based policy. The same year, we received 8,500
job applications for the Labs, 8.5 times the average for UNDP jobs. 72% of new recruits are from
outside the organization, a clear indication of the excitement for this new way of working and
the urgency to tackle complex development problems in a different way.

We are continuing to build our quality of collaboration, dismantle siloes and improve the
connections among #NextGenUNDP initiatives. With a focused approach to finance, we have
explored with governments and the private sector how to shift investment patterns to better
support the Goals, learning, innovating and adapting together.
The global context may have altered, but the challenges for an evolving #NextGenUNDP—for
all development actors—are the same: to remain relevant to a new generation demanding
change in this decade of action for the SDGs.

The Labs are part of UNDP’s new Global Policy Network (GPN), which was rolled out in 2019.
The GPN’s communities of practice now connect over 8,800 UNDP colleagues, combined
with some 5,000 other vetted, high-quality development professionals across 110 areas of
expertise who can be mobilized quickly to support UNDP’s work at country level.

The Other Bar (www.theother.bar) helps farmers in Ecuador to
earn a better wage, currently 3% of the value of their cocoa production. Each wrapper has a blockchain token. Just four smartphone scans will help them buy one tree, which can produce
19 dollars’ worth of cocoa. Each tree also absorbs and stores CO2
to help tackle climate change. This one idea is now informing a
global initiative to connect millions of sustainable producers to
global value chains. This is integrated, digitally-led sustainable
development—powered by UNDP and the FairChain Foundation.
8

Photo: UNDP Ecuador/Diego Malakias

Blockchain and cocoa creates sustainability

9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Driven by digital
The greater the problem, the greater the solution. It took a pandemic to amplify the role digital
technology plays in development. The speed and scale made possible by sharing life-saving
information and resources is unprecedented and makes us wonder how much more severe the
consequences of COVID-19 would have otherwise been. From protecting citizens, to enabling
governments to keep functioning, to bringing accessible, replicable and low-cost solutions to
the world’s most vulnerable people, UNDP’s response has shown just how far we’ve come digitally, and how much further we can go.
Combine this accelerating growth of global technology with #NextGenUNDP’s organizational
digital strategy, plus its digital financing forecast, and you capture how our work was able to
evolve in 2019—both internally and externally.

627,980
students
(50% girls) in isolated,
disadvantaged areas of The
Philippines have access
to digitally-enabled
learnings

4.4 MILLION

20%
OF UNDP STAFF
$8 BILLION and
nearly 2 BILLION

were trained in digital
literacy and
transformation

formerly wasted workdays

1,600 PEOPLE

saved in Bangladesh,
through the digitalization
of public services

in UNDP completed a
new Digital Learning
Programme

5 INDIGENOUS
AND LOCAL
COMMUNITIES
in Panama trained to
convert their handwritten
maps into digital

10

asset declarations by
public officials in Ukraine,
using digital solutions to
help identify
corruption risks

Improving the ways
we do business
Moving at speed and scale to tackle the complexity of development today requires a stable but
agile institution capable of driving change. To this end, we made the following advances in 2019.

FINANCIALLY STABLE, PRODUCTIVE
UNDP reversed the deficit and balanced its budget for the third year in a row.
Financial stability was ensured by reining in costs. Productivity increased, with
91 cents of every dollar now spent on programmes and services for development, up from 88 cents in 2017.

NIMBLE, EFFECTIVE
Investments in our business model are making UNDP more connected, effective and nimble. We began to cluster 57 of the operational services that keep
our teams across the world up and running—from payroll to procurement. Once
complete, this will reduce our audit recommendations at the country office level
by approximately 65%.

FASTER
We are working to speed up administrative tasks. For example, managers can
now approve transactions from their phones through the new Atlas Mobile app.
More than 8,200 transactions were approved in 176 countries and locations
since the app was launched in September 2019.

ACCOUNTABLE
UNDP established a new risk management body and strengthened its engagement on audit and evaluation. We received our 14th consecutive clean audit
opinion from the United Nations Board of Auditors (UNBOA) for 2018, underlining UNDP’s commitment to continuous improvement in financial management,
transparency, and accountability. We are also making progress against all our
top seven audit-related management priorities.

COLLABORATION
By collaborating with other UN agencies, we saved $7.5 million on travel, while
a new travel request system cut processing times by almost half and saved
109,000 hours, equivalent to over $867,000. By redeploying staff to the field,
$11.7 million was saved on headquarters’ office costs from 2017 to 2019.

11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Artificial intelligence, new frontiers
UNDP has made a major breakthrough in applying Artificial Intelligence (AI) to our data analytics
and transparency. For the first time, UNDP has applied machine learning to the big data it has
accumulated over the years, including development achievements and challenges reported by
the country offices and the data generated from over 4,500 projects. We created a special new
window to transparently track all our COVID-19 related support.
This digital resource—or Portfolio Analysis Dashboard—aids our analysis of what worked, what
did not and why, with results, challenges, and insights broken out by region, income, funding,
and partner type. The Dashboard also contains key Strategic Plan initiatives, including progress
on resource mobilization, communications, innovation, Country Support Platforms, UNDP’s integrator role, and Signature Solutions (see pages 18-29). What we have learned is already informing UNDP’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic and will continue to inform strategy setting
and policy making, as we move closer to achieving the SDGs.

Nimble and efficient in numbers

BALANCED BUDGET
IN 2019 FOR 3rd CONSECUTIVE YEAR

EFFICIENCIES ACHIEVED
$11.7 MILLION IN HQ OFFICE COSTS AND
$7.5 MILLION IN TRAVEL

Greening UNDP
UNDP is committed to “walk the talk” on climate action as part of the UN’s all-agency Greening
the Blue initiative. 2019 marked the 10th year of monitoring and reporting UNDP’s global carbon
footprint. We offset 70,000 tonnes of CO2 annually, and our global operations have been climate neutral since 2015. 2019 also saw the launch of UNDP’s Greening Moonshot to reduce its
greenhouse gas emissions by 25% by 2025, and 50% by 2030.

14th CONSECUTIVE CLEAN AUDIT
FROM UN BOARD OF AUDITORS 2018

INCREASED PRODUCTIVITY
91 CENTS OF EVERY DOLLAR SPENT ON
DEVELOPMENT (UP FROM 88 CENTS IN 2017)

3,600 solar panels
installed with a total generation
of more than 1,500 MWh per year

US$600,000
avoided in energy
costs per year

12

271 smart facility
renewable energy
projects in operation, 13 being
installed, 200 in the pipeline

Potential reduction of

4,220 tonnes
CO2e/year, with up to
$1.75 million in savings

109,000 HOURS SAVED
EQUIVALENT TO $867,000—WITH NEW TRAVEL
REQUEST SYSTEM

ADDITIONAL $13.2M
SHIFTED FROM INSTITUTIONAL
BUDGET TO DEVELOPMENT

13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Building the best workforce

Global leadership

People come first at UNDP

Standing up for a better world

The passion and purpose of UNDP begins with its people. Because working for the United
Nations is more than just a job—it’s a vocation.

UNDP’s global leadership team is now in place. Leading the charge alongside our Administrator
is the Acting Associate Administrator and nine Assistant Secretary Generals (ASGs), pictured
below. Together with their teams, they are making bold strides toward achieving the Sustainable
Development Goals.

That’s why, in 2019, UNDP launched a people plan that matches the commitment of every
person who works here, and is set to attract the best talent for the future. With nine areas of
focus, the People for 2030 strategy is being rolled out, encouraging and rewarding excellence, efficiency and commitment; fostering diversity and respect; and building more flexible,
family-friendly career paths for our global team of 17,000 development employees.
As a result of two major recruitment drives in 2019, UNDP’s top and deputy leadership positions across 140 countries and territories are now gender-balanced and geographically diverse,
while 24% of those who joined UNDP’s new Accelerator Lab network are repatriates — an indication that UNDP is attracting world-class talent back home to developing countries.

247

8,500

new UNDP Resident
Representatives and
Deputies recruited

job applicants
for Accelerator
Labs

24%

of the Lab
network are
repatriates

50:50
gender
balanced

11%

more Junior
Professional Officers
than in 2018

Innovation in
Recruitment

AWARD

for UNDP-UNV Talent
Programme for Young
Professionals with
Disabilities

Mourad Wahba
UNDP Acting Associate Administrator and
ASG for the Regional Bureau for Arab States

Kanni Wignaraja
Regional Bureau for Asia
and the Pacific

Haoliang Xu
Bureau for Policy and
Programme Support

Ahunna Eziakonwa
Regional Bureau for Africa

Luis Felipe López-Calva
Regional Bureau for Latin America
and the Caribbean

Ulrika Modéer
Bureau of External Relations
and Advocacy

Asako Okai
Crisis Bureau

Mirjana Spoljaric Egger
Regional Bureau for Europe and the
Commonwealth of Independent States

Angelique M. Crumbly
Bureau for Management Services

100%

of new interns
paid allowance

144

People for 2030
Champions in place

34
COUNTRIES
with dedicated focal
points to prevent
all forms of
harassment
Abdoulaye Mar Dieye
Senior Advisor to the Administrator

14

15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Where we are,
where we’re going

Signature Solutions

Midway through the Strategic Plan

Poverty, Governance, Resilience, Environment, Energy and Gender. Why does UNDP
have these six Signature Solutions? The answer is simple: to help focus our roles
and responsibilities across the Sustainable Development Goals. These cross-cutting
solutions are more relevant and urgent than ever, reflective of the big “passion points”
mobilizing our world towards a safer, fairer future. Through lasting results, not just
temporary relief.

Our performance against the Strategic Plan 2018-21 is right on track. In 2019, we delivered
strong development results against its three development outcomes, striving to help build
and maintain a better world for everyone. The outcomes are:
Eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions

In sync with the world, in time for the future

The following section outlines what each Solution does, its relevance and its performance.

Accelerating structural transformations for sustainable development
Building resilience to crises and shocks
Moving through the Plan’s implementation, we are diligently working with our partners across
the most multi-dimensional, deep-rooted development challenges of the new decade. These
include tackling inequality, climate change, and the root causes of migration and forced
displacement. In short, integrated solutions to complex problems—it’s what makes UNDP’s
work unique.

Poverty

Keeping people out of poverty

Governance

Strengthen effective, inclusive and
accountable governance

Resilience

Enhance national prevention and recovery
capacities for resilient societies

16

Environment

Promote nature-based solutions for
a sustainable planet

Energy

Close the energy gap

Gender

Strengthen gender equality and the
empowerment of women and girls

17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: POVERTY

The inequalities of poverty:

Outsmarting
the trends
In 2019, 26 people had the same wealth as half of humanity. One third of all the food produced on the planet went to waste while one in ten people went hungry. Plus, next-generation inequalities like access to tertiary education and broadband increased — accentuated by climate change, conflict, and the deep roots of gender inequality.
Today, as economies shut down and unemployment soars in the face of COVID-19, keeping the commitment of the Sustainable Development Goals to leaving no one behind will
require going beyond income, beyond mathematical averages and beyond today, as UNDP’s 2019 Human Development Report sets out. Because even now, poverty and inequality are not beyond solutions.

24

10.7

30

MILLION

MILLION

GOVERNMENTS

people in 22 countries
gained access to financial
services, 2018-19

emergency employment
workdays created in Yemen

went beyond income,
building multi-dimensional
poverty indices to improve
social inclusion

REDUCING CHILD MORTALITY RATES WITH A CLOUD
With UNDP as a key partner, a cloud-based system in India can monitor vaccine stocks and temperatures in real
time. This strategic use of technology, administered by mostly female health workers, has helped to significantly
reduce the mortality rate of children under five.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Poverty in 2019

Photo: UNDP India/Dhiraj Singh

18

19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GOVERNANCE

Governance for people:

Beyond having
a voice
UNDP is committed to building a future that is just and fair, anchored in SDG 16. But many
signs are trending in the wrong direction. Governance failures and a lack of trust are holding back development, undermining freedom and fueling conflict. That’s why, in 2019, governance was our largest portfolio. 25% was invested by programme countries to support
their own national efforts to build peaceful, inclusive societies.
In 2019, UNDP helped 100,000 Afro-descendants and indigenous people in Colombia to
access transitional justice. We scaled digital innovations with Bangladesh to create governance systems of the ‘now’, strengthened legal identity with Burkina Faso, and helped Somalia’s transitional government to manage public service revenues. Across the world, UNDP
worked with 89 countries to reform discriminatory laws and policies. That’s just a snapshot.
We support efforts to close the gap between people and their governments. 77% of the irregular migrants interviewed for UNDP’s 2019 Scaling Fences report felt unheard at home,
with no opportunity to influence government. By creating choice and innovation in the
face of complexity, we help everyone—citizens, migrants, public servants, politicians and
parliamentarians—to play their part in building a future where no one is left behind.

50

COUNTRIES

138

COUNTRIES

$2.5

supported to strengthen their
human rights systems

strengthened their health systems
to increase resilience and reduce
the socio-economic impact of
diseases, including Ebola

in savings for Thailand by improving
government procurement—
equivalent to a 50% pension
increase for 9 million people

BILLION

SHARING KNOWLEDGE ON HIV TO TACKLE STIGMA AND SAVE LIVES
Angolan women and adolescent girls are over 50% more likely to contract HIV than young men. With the
support of UNDP and the Global Fund, the next generation of female activists are mobilizing local communities, increasing awareness of HIV and health issues, and improving services for their peers.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Governance in 2019

Photo: UNDP Angola/Cynthia R. Matonhodze

20

21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: RESILIENCE

Disaster, crisis and war:

From adversity
to resilience
In 2019, crises evolved in scale and complexity. Protracted conflicts were a major culprit,
driving the number of people forcibly displaced from their homes to over 70 million. Climate change and disasters continued their devastating march and now, recovering from
COVID-19 will test peace, stability and the rule of law.
With years of experience embedded on development’s frontlines, UNDP is focused on
building resilience before adversity strikes and building back better when it does. We do
this by integrating our network and array of disciplines with the skills of our humanitarian,
development and peacebuilding partners—from conflict prevention, risk management and
pandemic preparedness to climate security, early warning systems and green recovery.
In 2019, our investment in resilience included fostering regional stability in the Sahel, helping Mozambique recover from Cyclone Idai, and supporting over 850,000 refugees and
host communities across five countries in response to the Syrian crisis. With nine out of
our ten largest programmes in fragile or crisis-affected countries and a new Crisis Bureau
in place, we are intensifying efforts to reach those who need support the most.

34

3

TRAINING BORDER POLICE IN FIRST AID AND PEACEKEEPING
Positive connections help prevent conflict, while breaking down barriers to peace, trade and economic growth.
UNDP partnered with the European Union to build relationships among border police in Afghanistan, Tajikistan,
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan—increasing security, regional cooperation and cross-border markets.

2.5

MILLION

COUNTRIES

MILLION

displaced people in 13
countries benefitted from
improved political, legal and
social conditions

supported to address the
root causes of violent
extremism

people accessed early
warning systems or
disaster and climate
information

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Resilience in 2019

Photo: UNDP/Freya Morales

22

23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENVIRONMENT

Nature’s tipping point:

Time to fix our
planet
The COVID-19 pandemic is a reminder of the intimate relationship between people, wildlife
and biodiversity. With 50% of SDG targets directly linked to the management of natural resources, building back to a better future after the pandemic is not a zero-sum game of environment versus economy. Rather, it’s a once-in-a-generation chance to set things straight.
In 2019, UNDP worked with our partners on the relationship between climate, nature and
development, to catalyze and accelerate positive change. Our new three-part integrated
offer for Small Island Developing States covers the blue economy, digital transformation
and climate action, with a focus on finance throughout.
In addition to our Climate Promise (page 30), UNDP delivered nature-based results across
our six Signature Solutions, building the resilience of 70,000 farmers in Zambia, generating an additional $200 million in GDP through sustainable tuna fishing for 14 Pacific Island
countries, and mobilizing green funding to benefit 37 million people. Because the force of
nature is ours to nurture, not destroy.

$1

275

334

BILLION

MILLION

MILLION

accessed by countries from
vertical funds with UNDP,
2018-2019

tonnes of CO2 emissions
will be avoided
(equivalent to taking 59 million
cars off the road for a year)

hectares of landscapes
and marine habitats
protected, improved
or restored

RESTORING CORAL REEFS WITH NATURE	
With the help of UNDP, inventors at Oceanus developed a resourceful way to regenerate local ecosystems.
Their new coral nurseries are built with a mix of organic concrete and the overabundant sargassum seaweed that washes up on their shores. This will be added to the 48,000 replanted coral colonies.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Environment in 2019

Photo: UNDP Mexico/Emily Mkrtichian

24

25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENERGY

Clean, affordable energy:

The power to
change lives
As COVID-19 wreaks havoc on renewable, oil and gas industries alike, countries have a
critical choice to make. Either stimulate low-carbon investments and save eight times more
than the cost—according to the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA), taking
health and education benefits into account—or rebuild the carbonized status quo, resetting the economy’s collision course with nature.
With a de-risking portfolio that leverages billions of public and private clean energy dollars, and policy solutions to politically difficult reforms addressing subsidies and carbon
pricing, UNDP offers investors choices. We work closely with the UN Capital Development
Fund and other partners to increase the share of renewables in countries’ national energy
mix, at speed and at scale, while expanding electricity access to everyone.
In 2019, we worked with Belarus, the Republic of Moldova, the Development Bank of Ethiopia and the Gambia to create the conditions for green energy investments. In China, we
supported the trade of 330 million tonnes of carbon valued at $1 billion. We provided solar
energy access to people displaced by conflict; fueled systemic change in the transport industry; and generated renewable ways to light hospitals and homes for millions of people.
Powerful, life-changing ways to help achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.

800,000
HOUSEHOLDS

RECYCLING WASTE, EMPOWERING WOMEN
This UNDP work in Jordan puts women in the driver’s seat of environmental change, with ground-breaking solid
waste management, creating sustainable livelihoods for local communities, with salaries, business training and
shareholder incentives for women employees. This is part of UNDP’s growing service line in integrated waste
management, including healthcare waste, e-waste, and the circular economy of converting waste into energy.

headed by women in 16 countries
benefitted from clean, affordable
and sustainable energy access

652

50

HEALTH FACILITIES
in 8 countries running on
solar energy

COUNTRIES
partnered with UNDP on
clean energy and energy
efficiency, 2018-2019

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Energy in 2019

Photo: UNDP/Sumaya Agha

26

27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GENDER

Gender equality:

200,000
years overdue
The silence around the abuse of women and girls is finally breaking, but the glass ceiling
is not. Today, the fight for gender equality is a story of bias and prejudice. According to the
2019 Human Development Report’s gender social norms index, 50% of men and women
interviewed across 77 countries say they think men make better political leaders than
women. More than 40% felt that men make better business executives. This isn’t just a
gender gap. It’s a power gap.
In 2019, UNDP redoubled its efforts to close that gap, working across our Signature Solutions. Gender equality was a key objective of 58% of our programmes, up 10% since the
launch of our Strategic Plan. UNDP ranked among in the 13 highest scorers on the 2020
Global Health 50/50 Gender and Health Index. By the end of 2020, 750 companies in 16
countries will be certified with UNDP’s Gender Equality Seal. Evidence shows that investing in UNDP ‘core’ resources improves gender results.
It’s taken two thousand centuries to get here, but together we can give gender equality
the priority it deserves.

1.3

80

74

MILLION

COUNTRIES

COUNTRIES

women benefited from UNDP
recovery programmes across
17 countries

supported to tackle genderbased violence, including
through the UN-EU
Spotlight partnership

integrated gender into
environment and climate
policies, plans and
frameworks

BRIDGING THE TECHNOLOGY GENDER GAP
With UNDP’s support, the nation of Georgia is closing the gender gap in tech and science for women and
girls by promoting their participation, and educational and career development. This has the potential to
foster new career paths and bring more inclusion and equality than any other industry before it.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on Gender in 2019

Photo: UNDP Georgia/Leli Blagonravova

28

29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Keeping our Climate Promise
Integrated support at speed and scale
Nothing impacts the future of development more than climate change. 2019 concluded a
decade of unprecedented global heat, melting ice and rising sea levels, driven by human
activities. However, current national climate targets under the Paris Agreement, known as
Nationally Determined Contributions or NDCs, are not ambitious enough to limit the rise in
global temperature to below the all-important 1.5˚C. Today, as nations struggle to recover from
COVID-19, even agreed targets will be under threat.
But this pandemic tragedy also presents an opportunity: to kick our dirty old habits and build a
better system. As economies get back on their feet, leaders can make the choice to accelerate rather than undermine decarbonization, to create green jobs and more resilient systems
for the future. That will take ambition, acceleration and mobilization across all sectors and
societies—and committed partners who understand how the pieces of the puzzle can fit together. That is where UNDP comes in.

The Promise includes a menu of five services tailored to each country’s unique context for
maximum impact, backed by the strength of UNDP’s investment in nature and the full weight
of our integrated SDG programming on poverty, governance, resilience, environment, gender and energy. Through the Promise, which is a direct contribution to the NDC Partnership,
we deliver technical support to countries with UNDP’s strategic partners on climate action,
including the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), UNICEF, IRENA, World Bank, UN Habitat, the Global Environment Facility
and the Green Climate Fund.

27

Small Island
Developing States
(SIDS)

13

High Emitters

110
Countries

36

2

Least Developed
Countries (LDCs)

NDC2 submissions
supported:
Moldova and Chile

UNDP launched an ambitious undertaking in September 2019: to take our experience in helping countries design and implement their climate pledges, initially in 25 countries in 2017, and
multiply it to 100. This was our Climate Promise, and it tested all our abilities to deliver integrated
support at speed and scale. By February 2020, we surpassed our target. Today, the roll-out of
the Climate Promise continues at full speed, with 13 high emitters already on board.

Building on UNDP’s global climate change portfolio of:

300+
UNDP climate
projects

$1.9+

$8+

billion

billion

under implementation
in 2019 for countries’
climate action

leveraged in
additional financing

The Climate Promise
is supporting

110 COUNTRIES

The Climate Promise appreciates the support of UNDP’s core donors, including:

to enhance their
NDCs by 2020

$14+

million

$34+
million

Gaming has become a global pastime. Led by UNDP and our partners, this new mobile game educates people on climate solutions
and allows them to vote on the actions they would like to see their
country take. The results will be collected and delivered to global

of UNDP core
resources
committed to the
Climate Promise

30

in financing
leveraged from
vertical funds and
bilateral donors

leaders. Over 1.2 million people have played so far.
www.mission1point5.org

31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

Growing partnerships

The UN family

UNDP craves diversity, especially when it comes to partnerships. That’s why 2019 saw our
range of trusted partners grow to include a new breed of global and local allies, including
tech companies, media groups, the gaming industry, scientific and financial institutions, and
space agencies. 80% of partners surveyed in 2020 consider UNDP a valued partner.

In 2019, UNDP renewed and strengthened our bonds with our UN family members. From collaborating
with the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) to strengthen resilience in the
Lake Chad Basin in Africa, to our cutting-edge global SDG innovation initiative with UNICEF that drew 190
joint bids from around the world, to our ongoing work with the World Health Organization (WHO) and UN
Development System agencies to strengthen health systems, we focus on tackling complexity through
integrated development, just as the United Nations Development System reforms intended.

Private sector partnerships amplify SDG advocacy, redirecting investments for good and raising public awareness—from inviting millions of smartphone users to crowdsource climate​
policies, to co-founding a fund for global brands and the advertising industry to support conservation and biodiversity.

UNDP remains the largest single UN entity contributor to the Resident Coordinator System, as well as its
operational backbone, delivering timely, quality services.

Our valued partnerships with financial institutions continue to scale as we deliver development results together in some of the toughest places in the world.

Of the

$676 million
in grants and loan implementation
support from development banks
in 2018-2019, 50% more than the
previous two years.

$3
BILLION

$2.5
MILLION

UNDP disbursed in
payroll 2018-2019,
over half was for
UN partners

provided to the UN
Resident Coordinator
System through the
1% levy in 2019

UNDP’s long-standing partnerships with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the Green Climate Fund, the Global Environment Facility and the Montreal Protocol stand
strong. In 2018-2019, we enabled countries to access grants of over $1 billion from vertical
funds, leveraging an additional $1.2 billion of private and public finance for 91 countries.

28%
INCREASE

Much of our work on the ground happens thanks to our partnerships with some 600 Civil
Society Organizations around the world.

in pooled UN funds
since 2018

ranking of business
service operations to the
UN Resident Coordinator
System

By combining inspiration, ideas and resources with our partners, we become more than the
sum of our parts. And that’s what the world needs to reach the SDGs.

Going further on finance
UNDP envisages a world where all capital flows advance progress towards the SDGs. That is why we’re committed
to empowering investors—public and private—with the clarity, insights and tools they need to optimize the positive
impact of their investments, closing the gap between high-level principles and financial performance to make a
positive contribution to society.
In 2019, UNDP established the SDG Finance Sector Hub to bring coherence and scale to our work on financing for the
Sustainable Development Goals, with a range of services for public and private partners to choose from. These include:
a UNDP-UN-European Union initiative to advance integrated national financing
frameworks to align public financing to the Goals, already underway in 19 countries;
an enhanced focus on insurance and risk finance to build resilience; and SDG
Impact, which is accelerating investment by the private sector towards the SDGs.

32

$10.3
MILLION

$95
MILLION
in travel and $618 million in
procurement services

annual contribution
to the UN Resident
Coordinator System
(100% increase since 2018)

UNDP hosts crucial functions for the UN’s work around the world:

$1.25 billion
managed for the
UN Development System

3 million

unbanked and underbanked
people benefited from access to
digital and other financial services

2,671

volunteers deployed in 2019,
17% more than in 2018

160 countries
recommitted to South-South
and Triangular cooperation at
BAPA+40 in Argentina

33

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Advocacy adds up
UNDP joined forces with a number of innovative partners in 2019, launching a variety
of ongoing initiatives. With the help, expertise and networks of each partner, the level of
exposure and impact across our development work keeps increasing.

The Lion’s Share
To help tackle the crisis in nature, UNDP’s co-founded fund asks advertisers to donate
0.5% of their media spend for each ad that features animals. It raised $3.3 million and over
$10 million in in-kind contributions within the first year.

Goodwill Ambassadors
and celebrity advocates
UNDP’s Goodwill Ambassadors (GWAs) and other powerful influencers continue to
bring their unique perspective and value to our work on the SDGs, driving awareness
throughout the world. Highlights in 2019 included: the appointments of author and TV
personality Padma Lakshmi and acclaimed eco-artist Olafur Eliasson; actor Nikolaj CosterWaldau’s climate action advocacy, including his visit to Peru’s Ulcumano Ecolodge, which
conserves 102 hectares of forest; and Nigeria’s international Afropop star Yemi Alade, who
collaborated with UNDP to mobilize action on climate, wildlife and equality.

Samsung
UNDP and the leading producer of smartphones co-created the Samsung Global Goals
mobile app to increase SDG awareness and fundraising, with Samsung matching donations
1:1. Available in 17 languages, it already has over 1 million active users.

TICAD VII
53 African countries gathered to showcase people, technology and innovation partnerships
for development in Africa, co-organized by the Government of Japan, the African Union
Commission, the World Bank and the United Nations.

iHeartMedia + Live Nation

Eco-artist
Olafur Eliasson

Author and Television Host
Padma Lakshmi

Afropop artist
Yemi Alade

Various joint projects were broadcast across iHeartMedia, with a US audience reach of 110 million
a week. These included a campaign with Sustainable Partners, Inc., inviting artists, celebrities and
influencers to produce their own SDG videos.

Microsoft
This global partnership is producing innovative, digital solutions for sustainability—including
biodiversity, climate action and disaster risk reduction. UNDP is helping Microsoft to scale up its
commitment to become carbon negative, while reducing our own emissions by 50%.

Working with NASA, UNEP and more than 30 other partners, this new spatial data facility has enabled
149 countries to overlay environmental indicators with key nature-dependent SDGs, providing
insights that help governments achieve cross-cutting solutions.

Space Climate Observatory
Launched by the French government, jointly founded by UNDP, and attracting 22 space
agencies, this important decision-making tool uses space data and UNDP local data to
pinpoint, understand and mitigate the impacts of climate change.

Data4Human
#data4human

34

The German Aerospace Center and UNDP are working together on space technologies and
data science for development. AI and space data helps to monitor and accelerate post-disaster
recovery, improve meteorological predictions, and better understand human mobility.

Nikolaj Coster-Waldau’s climate action work in Peru

35

Photo: UNDP/Leonardo Fernandez for Getty Images

UN BioDiversity Lab

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Investment matters
The UN’s Decade of Action and the Secretary General’s Funding Compact have elevated both
the need and scope for financial investment across UNDP’s critical development work.

Top contributors

Top 2019 UNDP funding partners

2

(in USD millions)
UN Pooled Funds

472M

Global Environment Facility

UNDP thanks all its funding contributors starting with the top 15, listed below.

427M

Germany

401M

Global Fund

329M

Japan

295M

European Union

284M

United States

219M

Sweden
Global
Environment
Facility

Germany

Global Fund

Japan

European
Union

United States

United
Kingdom

Sweden

189M

United Kingdom

174M

Norway

153M

Ukraine

110M

World Bank Group

Norway

Ukraine

World Bank
Group

Switzerland

Netherlands

Argentina

Italy

101M

Switzerland

99M

Netherlands

99M

Argentina

95M

UN Agencies

87M

Italy

80M

Denmark

Highlights in 2019
•	 54% increase in thematic Funding Windows
	 UNDP received $103 million for its thematic Funding Windows, the largest total since its
inception in 2016

•	 28% increase in engagement with pooled funds
	 UNDP received $477 million from UN Multi-Partner Trust Fund (MPTF) pooled funds, up from
$372 million in 2018

•	 $1.82 billion in government cost-sharing contributions 2018-2019
	 Governance work accounted for the largest share of government cost-sharing with UNDP in 2019

•	 $5 million increase in core resources
	 Increase in regular resource contributions in 2019 from $624 million to $629 million1

72M

Green Climate Fund

66M

Canada

64M

Republic of Korea

59M

Dominican Republic
Egypt
Australia
Colombia

477M

51M
42M
38M
33M

Guatemala

28M

China

27M

Honduras

25M

Panama

25M

Paraguay

24M
100M

200M

300M

400M

500M

•	 14% increase in multi-year pledges to regular or “core” resources
	 $363 million in contributions to UNDP’s core resources came from multi-year pledges a 14% increase compared to 2018

Regular Resources

Other Resources

•	 2% drop in the use of regular resources to run UNDP
	 An additional $13.2 million for development programming as a result
1. Includes $12 million pledged but not yet received as at April 2020

36

2. All financial figures are provisional as of April 2020 and subject to change until the completion of audited financial statements.

37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

The importance of
core resources

Awards and recognition
Here are some highlights from the past year that UNDP aims to build upon in the future.

Sustaining our multilateral, universal character
Core resources (unearmarked funds or regular resources) underpin UNDP’s operational capacity
and networks, and our presence at global, regional and country levels across 170 countries
and territories. This allows us to provide on-demand support to national governments as part of
broader UN System support.
With our sights set on Agenda 2030, we depend on sufficient and predictable core resources
in order to work with our United Nations Development System partners to maximize our
collective results on the ground. This includes fueling programmes where the need is greatest,
from the poorest countries to pockets of poverty and vulnerability. Core’s importance is
recognized by the Secretary General’s Funding Compact, with its goal of 30% of development
resources as core funding.
MOBILIZING
FINANCING FOR
THE SDGs

ranked UNDP as a
“highest scorer”

Best Practice
on Leadership - Legal
and Ethical Behavior

for UNDP’s Ethics Code of Conduct,
given by Business Performance
Improvement Resource,
New Zealand

RESPONDING
TO CRISIS

INTERAGENCY
COLLABORATION TO
REACH THE SDGS

MULTIPLYING
IMPACT

FOCUSING ON
THE POOREST

ranked UNDP 2nd globally,
the highest-rated UN agency,
with information on over
4,500 projects worth over
$4.5 billion

Apolitical 2019
Global Public
Service Teams of
the Year award

for evidence-based policy to
the UNDP Accelerator Lab
Network

Publish What
You Fund

Core is a
bedrock for
programme
initiatives

PROVIDING
SHARED ASSETS

2020 Global Health
50/50 Gender and
Health Index

Grand Prix at
2019 Cannes
Lions Festival of
Creativity
awarded to The Lions’
Share fund, co-founded
by UNDP

FutureEdge 50 Award
for developing a Global
Incident Response and Threat
Hunting cybersecurity platform,
highlighting its cutting-edge
application of emerging
technologies

Thank you to our top 10 core contributors of 2019:

Human Development Report 2019
United
Kingdom

Japan

Switzerland

38

Sweden

Netherlands

United States

Canada

Norway

Denmark

Germany

Inequalities: beyond income, beyond averages, beyond today
UNDP’s Human Development Report is designed to drive conversation on
the future of development. The 2019 report examines the way inequalities are
changing and growing, helping development partners to keep improving. For
UNDP, this includes adapting how we think about social protection in this era of
COVID-19 and the climate crisis.

39

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

United Nations Development Programme
One United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017
www.undp.org
© UNDP 2020
40

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

