UNITED NATIONS
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Foreword

Development
never stops.
The world descended into multiple crises in 2021. The climate emergency escalated. Social unrest and conflict flared. Inequalities deepened as
COVID-19 continued to devastate lives and diminish economies, plunging
millions more into poverty.

Behind each of these results are the stories of millions of people that we
work with and support every day. Some of them are highlighted in this report, including voters in Liberia, whom UNDP supported through security,
tactile ballots for the visually impaired, and mobile voter identification systems; and the residents of Chullpia, Peru, whose lives improved thanks to inventor Juansergio Castro and his floating solar panels that provide enough
energy to fill up local reservoirs.

Human choices caused most of these crises. But human actions can resolve
them. The COVID-19 vaccines are proof that even the most complex challenges are not insurmountable when we are willing to come together. We
saw just how quickly years of development gains could be erased, but we
also saw how countries’ social protection and fiscal injections helped stop
the slide. And as the climate emergency rang alarm bells across the world,
we saw countries and businesses moving together towards making more
ambitious cuts in greenhouse gas emissions.

When I look at what we, together, have achieved, I am motivated and
hopeful—and grateful to all our partners, donors, United Nations sister
agencies and the 20,000 UNDP personnel across the world that have
made all this possible. Looking ahead, we remain committed to building a
#FutureSmartUNDP dedicated to helping create a world that is more equal
and more just, with societies that don’t just survive, but can truly flourish
and thrive. I hope this snapshot of UNDP’s work over the last year encourages you to join us in that journey.

The past 12 months have tested UNDP’s ability to respond in an era buffeted
by rapid change. In the pages that follow, I invite you to explore what I saw in
2021—a UNDP working hard to deliver on the promises that we made, despite
the difficulties faced—a UNDP that is now more agile, efficient, innovative, resilient and able to solve difficult and complex global development problems.

2

Neither do we.
Photo: Cory Wright

This UNDP Annual Report provides a snapshot of the results we achieved
together with countries and communities over the last 12 months, the final year of our four-year Strategic Plan. It considers the role we played
in responding to some of the most intractable development problems of
our time, including the COVID crisis, during which we helped 82 countries
adopt vaccine registration and beneficiary tracking systems, supported the
recruitment of 32,000 new health care workers, and protected nearly 1 million jobs. Our work in Afghanistan, the Sahel and Iraq are examples of how
transformations can take root even in the midst of crisis and fragility. And
our Climate Promise supported 84% of all developing countries’ Nationally
Determined Contributions ahead of the climate Conference of the Parties
(COP) in Glasgow, with real ambition demonstrated by those developing
countries on the front lines.

Achim Steiner
Administrator
United Nations
Development Programme

3

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

UNDP for the world
With our support, millions of people
improved their lives in 2021.

With Climate Promise support,

43 countries

supported to address
gender-based
violence

92 of 120 countries

82 countries

adopted over 580 digital
solutions for e-commerce,
e-governance and more

submitted revised national
climate action plans

71 million people
in 36 countries
gained access to essential
services (2018–2021)

Nearly

1 million jobs
protected

2.4 million rural
households

26 countries

in 33 countries benefited
from clean, affordable and
sustainable energy

supported to implement
national action plans to
address radicalization

by labour-market measures

88%

of performance indicators
were met by UNDP on gender
equality and women’s
empowerment
(as part of UN System-wide
Action Plan 2.0)

38 million
new voters

US$1.6 billion

registered in 30 countries,
80% being women
(2018–2021)

raised by UNDP to help
countries respond to and
recover from COVID-19

81 countries

implemented policies based
on COVID-19 socio-economic
impact assessments
(with UNDS)

4

UNDP’s Accelerator Labs
Network reached

115 countries
through 91 locations

3 million people
benefited from jobs and
improved livelihoods
in crisis or post-crisis
settings in 29 countries,
47% being women

750,000 women

in 15 countries gained access to
recovery programmes

US$3.8 billion
mobilized in innovative
SDG bonds

5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

SDGs by 2030

Strategic Plan review

What we must do to succeed

Results and outcomes 2018–2021

UNDP’s ability to help countries achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) has
been tested harder than ever. Poverty is rising for the first time in a generation as a result
of COVID-19. The inequalities are stark. To bend the multiple curves of the pandemic, and
continue a systemic push towards reduced poverty and greater equality, countries and
communities need access to vaccines and access to finance.

Over the past four years, UNDP delivered for millions of people and for countries in every part
of the world, a fitting conclusion to the Strategic Plan. Transformative changes were strongly
evident across the plan’s three development settings (below) and six signature solutions (pages
14–25), as indicated by the following cumulative results.

Our evidence also shows that a united push to meet the SDGs can bring us back on course.
UNDP, as part of the international community, needs to help ensure that the world:
•	
•	
•	

transitions to a recovery from COVID-19 that makes the world more equal, not less equal;
enables transformation to take root even in the midst of conflict, crisis and fragility;
prepares more intentionally for a decarbonized and digital future.

Access to finance and vaccine equity is the key to socio-economic recovery in low- and lowermiddle-income countries. Recognizing that “no one is safe until everyone is safe”, UNDP is
working with the World Health Organization (WHO), the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
and other partners on the ground to help realize the WHO targets of vaccinating at least 70% of
the global population against COVID-19 in 2022.

Since 2018, UNDP
has worked with
100 countries to
integrate the SDGs
into their national
and subnational
development plans

6

UNDP’s COVID-19
response reached
$1.6B

Eradicating poverty
UNDP assisted 71 million people in 36 countries in obtaining services essential
to well-being and dignity, such as water, housing and health care. In 25
countries, 40 million people gained access to financial services.
Supporting the growth of stronger, fairer economies
With our support, 38 million new voters in 30 countries registered to vote, 80%
of whom were women. In 34 countries, 32 million people realized their legal
rights and protections through improved access to justice.
Strengthening resilience to shocks and crisis
During the plan, over 750,000 women in 15 countries benefited from recovery
programmes to rebuild assets and regain livelihoods, strengthening capacities
to manage future crises in the process. In 2021, 3 million displaced people in 13
countries benefited from durable solutions aimed at lasting security, freedom
of movement and well-being.
Greater investments, where it matters most
Over 2018–2021, UNDP spent $18.3B of its programme resources, or 94.4% of the total planned
programme expenditure. In 2021 alone, UNDP spent $4.8B of its programme resources, the
highest level over the last two Strategic Plan periods (2014–2017 and 2018–2021). This enabled
us to deliver against all three development settings.

7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

21 achievements
The making of #NextGenUNDP
In 2018, UNDP gave itself four years to become a “next generation” organization. These facts and figures
illustrate how we did it, by changing the way we think, invest, manage and deliver.

into 21,000 people, working together across 170 countries
and territories

We maintained

a 50:50 gender parity across all UNDP staff, including senior
managers in country offices

We created

an improved line of work with the Crisis Bureau, making it
possible to offer a more coherent, rapid response. 9 of the 10
largest UNDP country programmes are in crisis settings

We achieved

99% of UNDP’s four-year funding target, mobilizing $20.7B in
development finance for programme countries

We helped

countries reconfigure development finance through Integrated
National Financing Frameworks (INFFs) to improve the quality,
amount and reach of public funds

We balanced

our budget for the 5th year in a row

We invested

We rolled out

a long-term vision of a world in which digital is an empowering force
for people and planet, with more inclusive, ethical and sustainable
societies (through UNDP’s first Digital Strategy, 2022–2025)

We received

a 16th consecutive unqualified (clean) audit opinion, from the
United Nations Board of Auditors for the year ending 2020

We educated

our own workforce with fit-for-purpose digital systems, processes,
tools and data

We doubled

our cost sharing to the United Nations Resident Coordinator
(RC) system

We ranked

as the most transparent UN agency, and the third most
transparent development organization in the world (by The
International Aid Transparency Index)

We reduced

our electricity carbon footprint by 8% through the Greening UNDP
Moonshot initiative, saving the organization $600,000 a year

We formed

the Global Policy Network (GPN), connecting 8,800+ UNDP
colleagues, plus 5,000+ vetted development professionals across
110 areas of expertise, ready to support UNDP at the country level

We guided

support for countries to accelerate gender equality (UNDP’s
Gender Equality Strategy 2022–2025)

We shifted

the mindset from projects to portfolios, and from experimentation to
transformation and scale (through our Accelerator Labs Network)

We reached
8

in new programmes, people, partnerships and operational
systems, helping UNDP become more agile and effective

We grew

$4.8B in programme expenditure in 2021, the highest in over a
decade (over 87% of our revenue), to deliver across our three
development settings

We invested

We established

We capitalized

We supported

in stronger risk management mechanisms and due
diligence processes

the SparkBlue knowledge platform as a go-to for UN staff to
connect with each other and external experts

on the much-needed shifts in data collection arising from
digitalization (Data Strategy 2022–2025)

staff payments across 50 different UN entities through UNDP’s
payroll services

9 9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Where people want to work

Leading the way

People for 2030 is our highly ambitious and comprehensive effort to overhaul UNDP’s people
management capabilities and systems, thereby helping to transform UNDP into the leading
development organization for the 21st Century.

2021 was a notable year for UNDP’s global leadership team, with Achim Steiner appointed for a second term as
Administrator, as well as a few new faces completing our executive management roster.

Our commitment to people management and leadership includes creating a safe and inclusive work
environment with opportunities for everyone to grow and develop. Tackling all forms of discrimination
and harassment, including racism and sexual misconduct—both for our own personnel and the people
that we serve—remains the highest priority for UNDP.
Of the recommendations set out in People for 2030, 95% were implemented by the end of 2021,
including new policies and programmes to target top talent, increase workforce diversity, and address
any gaps and weaknesses.
Achim Steiner
Administrator

“

UNDP is an organization
where people can grow !
	

– Hawa Aw, UNDP Senegal

Usha Rao-Monari
Associate Administrator

”
Khalida Bouzar
Regional Bureau for
Arab States

Angelique M. Crumbly
Bureau for Management Services

Mirjana Spoljaric Egger
Regional Bureau for Europe
and the Commonwealth of
Independent States

Global Staff Survey (GSS):

86% of staff said they are “inspired and excited to work at UNDP”
Awarded the second-highest Economic Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE)
certification for our significant progress in gender equality in the workplace. We are one of
only two UN agencies, alongside UNICEF, to achieve this distinction.
Introduced our first ever graduate programme with high-potential young candidates
from the least represented programme countries, indigenous peoples and less privileged socioeconomic backgrounds.

Ahunna Eziakonwa
Regional Bureau for Africa

Luis Felipe López-Calva
Regional Bureau for Latin
America and the Caribbean

Ulrika Modéer
Bureau of External
Relations and Advocacy

The programme won the Innovation in Recruitment Award 2021 at the International
Organizations Career Development Roundtable.

Our 2021 African Young Women Leaders Fellowship Programme
graduated 21 young women from 20 African countries, with the second cohort attracting 7,000+
new applicants.

The UNDP-United Nations Volunteer programme (UNV) Talent Programme
for Young Professionals with Disabilities gave recruits the opportunity to gain valuable
experience. Many more were deployed with UNDP through mainstream UNV channels.

10

Asako Okai
Crisis Bureau

Kanni Wignaraja
Regional Bureau for Asia
and the Pacific

Haoliang Xu
Bureau for Policy and
Programme Support

11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Strategic Plan 2022–2025
Development is changing. So are we.
In the four years of our new Strategic Plan, UNDP will work with countries to make a difference
to millions of lives.

A shared ambition for a better world
Through our programmes and advocacy, and close partnerships within and beyond
the UN system, we are striving towards these ambitious joint goals:
Helping

100 million people

to escape multidimensional poverty
Supporting

500 million people
to gain access to clean energy

Supporting

800 million people

to participate in elections, many for the first time

As we move forward with the Plan, UNDP’s work can be summarized as a “3 x 6 x 3” framework—
three directions of change, six signature solutions and three enablers—as we progress ever closer
to the completion of Agenda 2030. Building on UNDP’s 50 years of development experience across
170 countries, this flexible framework allows us to focus and prioritize where country demands are
greatest. By leveraging and growing our partnerships on the global, regional and local levels, we
aim to expand people’s choices for a fairer, sustainable future.

UNDP’s work is summarized in the Strategic Plan as this
“3 x 6 x 3” framework:

DIRECTIONS OF CHANGE
Supporting countries towards three
directions of change:
•	 structural transformation
•	 leaving no-one behind
•	 building resilience

SIGNATURE
SOLUTIONS
through six signature solutions:
•	 poverty and inequality
•	 governance
•	 resilience
•	 environment
•	 energy
•	 gender equality

Promoting

over $1 trillion

of public expenditure and private capital
investment in the SDGs

Our Strategic Plan puts out a $1 trillion moonshot, part of our commitment to play a catalytic role
in promoting the alignment of existing public and private sector resources with the SDGs. We
are already innovating to this end. In December 2021, for example, UNDP launched two new
SDG Investor Maps with over 30 investment opportunities in Djibouti and Namibia. Mexico’s
SDG bonds, supported by UNDP, returned to the market in 2021 with a $1.38B offering, while the
New Development Bank in China issued a $750M Goal-linked bond, with UNDP support. UNDP
also launched a new Insurance and Risk Finance Facility to work with industry and governments
in at least 50 countries over the next four years. The Facility is already working with over 20
countries, including Algeria, Colombia, Ghana, India, Indonesia and Uzbekistan.

12

ENABLERS

enhanced by three enablers:
•	 strategic innovation
•	 digitalization
•	 development financing

This combination will help UNDP continue to deliver
on what it does best: integrated development
solutions driven by country priorities.

13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: POVERTY

ZERO POVERTY

BEFORE CRYPTO-TRILLIONAIRES
Tackling inequality of opportunities by investing in the enhanced capabilities people
need to move above the poverty line and keep moving forwards.
Multidimensional poverty, exacerbated by the
pandemic, has put years of human development
progress at risk. But despite current challenges,
UNDP has scaled up efforts to support countries
and communities to reduce inequality, realize
a job-rich recovery and eradicate poverty in
all its forms. The results increasingly reflect
UNDP’s accelerated commitment to innovation,
digitalization and partnerships, and new approach
to development finance.
Digitalization is now at the forefront of UNDP
support for livelihoods and income security.
Meanwhile, the digitalization of social assistance
makes the system not only more inclusive but
also more shock-responsive and resilient. In
Malaysia, the new five-year plan covers core
issues such as green growth, social protection,
lower emissions, ecological conservation, jobs
and the digital economy. In Kenya, UNDP helped
establish a registrar’s office in the Medium and
Small Enterprises Authority and provided digital
tools to support the formalization of 12,185 firms.
In India, training on financial and digital literacy
and support in making market links helped
31,000 artisans, farmers and microentrepreneurs
boost income on average by 19%.

81 COUNTRIES

implemented policies based
on COVID-19 socio-economic
impact assessments
(with UNDS)

Digitalization improved the
delivery of

$1.4 BILLION

in social protection to over

27 MILLION
PEOPLE

40 MILLION
PEOPLE

in 25 countries gained access to
financial services, improving lives
and economies (2018–2021)

first country in its region to issue a sovereign
bond for the SDGs. Also with UNDP support,
Indonesia issued its first sovereign SDG bond
for $551M to support social protection, health
and education. Rwanda’s Development Bank
issued its first green bond to inject $50M
into renewable energy, clean transportation,
sustainable water, waste management and
biodiversity conservation. In Mauritania, UNDP
helped institutionalize zakat or Islamic finance,
enhancing regulations to steer this source of
funds more systematically towards the SDGs.
UNDP is ready to help the world leave
multidimensional poverty behind for good
by 2030—hopefully, before we see the first
crypto-trillionaire.

In 2021, UNDP unleashed an array of
development finance innovations, helping
countries identify opportunities, develop new
financing tools and strike new partnerships.
With UNDP support, Uzbekistan became the

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on poverty and inequality in 2021

14

An elderly woman in Kurendhoo Island in Lhaviyani Atoll, Maldives. UNDP has been in the country for more
than 40 years, helping to achieve the eradication of poverty and reduction of inequalities.
Photo: Ashwa Faheem/UNDP Maldives

15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GOVERNANCE

GOOD
GOVERNANCE

BEFORE UNJUST SOCIETIES

Nearly

50 COUNTRIES
received anti-corruption
support

34,000 PEOPLE

in 14 conflict-affected countries received
access to justice and services, nearly 90%
being women and girls

32 MILLION

people in 34 countries gained
access to justice (2018–2021)

Helping countries address emerging complexities by “future-proofing” governance
systems through anticipatory approaches and better management of risk.
As multiple shocks disrupted and weakened
governments and broader societies in 2021, UNDP
maintained its critical investments in governance
systems, with heightened emphasis on those
needed to underpin peaceful, just and inclusive
societies. Recognizing that there are diverse paths
to effective and accountable governance, we
worked closely with national and local institutions
and civil society to develop solutions. Across
its activities, UNDP pushed for the meaningful
participation and leadership of women, youth and
indigenous peoples.
In 2021, UNDP helped amend laws in Malawi to
clarify election administration and build trust in
fair polling. Meanwhile, Honduras was able to
effectively manage inclusive elections despite
significant political polarization. In Moldova,
updated election security systems proved
resilient to cyberattacks, over 420,000 people
accessed real-time data on voter turnout and
women candidates contributed to a historically
high share of 40% in the new legislature.
With the COVID-19 pandemic dramatically
accelerating the shift to digital services, UNDP
supported a host of new applications to
improve service access and quality. Botswana
digitalized eight government services, from
improving driver’s license applications to
claiming land rights—now all accessible online
or via an app.

UNDP efforts to ease social tensions and
deepen democracy also built on support
for promoting and protecting human rights,
including through better functioning justice,
security and human rights institutions. In
Cameroon, UNDP collaborated with human
rights defenders to record more than 500 cases
of abuse by State actors, one of the known
drivers of violent extremism. This contributed
to policy change and a 17% reduction in
incidences of terrorism.
Corruption weakens the social fabric. But
technology and innovation, such as digital
monitoring to stop illegal environmental
activities in Sri Lanka, and reforming public
procurement in Nigeria, are fighting back
against corrupt practices.
With UNDP support in Nauru, new legislation
has ensured parliamentary independence,
while local governments are taking steps to
improve procurement, tax collection and the
timely delivery of services.
To conclude, with UNDP support, good
governance progressed in many parts of the
world in 2021.

In 2021, UNDP launched the Digital X Scale
Accelerator, including a mobile app that
provides information on government services
for rural women in India, and a platform to share
geospatial data on renewable energy in Africa
and across Small Island Developing States.
UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on governance in 2021

16

UNDP has assisted the National Elections Commission (NEC) in
Liberia since 2010, which culminated in a successful presidential
election. Some of the support included security, tactile ballots
for the visually impaired, and mobile voter identification systems.
Photo: UNDP Liberia

17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: RESILIENCE

STRONGER
RESILIENCE

BEFORE SPIRALING ADVERSITY

16 MILLION PEOPLE
in Iraq were supported to improve
their lives

1.2 MILLION PEOPLE
in Mali had a new early warning
system to provide protection from
flooding risks

3 MILLION

displaced people in 13
countries benefited from
lasting security, freedom of
movement and well-being

Supporting countries and communities in building resilience to diverse shocks and
crises, including conflict, climate change, disasters and epidemics.
Risks grew exponentially in 2021, and not just
from COVID-19. Armed conflicts, disasters, coups,
climate insecurity and violent extremism all flared
during the year. Social cohesion deteriorated.
Amid the sheer volume of crises, UNDP focused
on a human security perspective, connecting
actions to protect people and manage risks.

Observatory has pioneered the rapid analysis
of millions of data points from official crime
statistics and online postings to flag triggers of
extremism. The Crisis Risk Dashboard was built
as a tool for data aggregation and visualization
to support risk analysis conducted by UNDP
and the wider UN system.

UNDP is seeding transformative changes to
hasten and sustain recovery from conflict, crisis
and fragility. In Iraq, 285 projects rehabilitated
schools, electrical grids, health facilities, housing,
roads and bridges, and water and sanitation
services. Close engagement with civil society and
communities helped resolve conflicts and define
priorities for recovery. UNDP provided critical
services to help reintegrate displaced people
perceived to have had family ties to the Islamic
State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), including mental
health and psychosocial support.

Sustained UNDP investment in Niger has
generated significant changes in strategic disaster
management. Government officials are equipped
to systematically evaluate post-disaster needs
in a country highly vulnerable to climate change,
and to rapidly launch recovery plans. In tandem,
UNDP has helped build the resilience of rural
communities through better management of
natural resources, access to energy and improved
livelihoods, particularly for young people. Haiti
was better prepared for its 2021 earthquake
through UNDP support to develop systems for
coordination and management. This allowed
a rapid assessment of needs and a tailored
recovery plan.

UNDP is the largest contributor to UN efforts on
the prevention of violent extremism. In Malaysia
and the Philippines, grass-roots peacebuilding
organizations led by women and youth now work
alongside senior government officials on national
policies to prevent extremism.

If our work in 2021 proves one thing, it’s that even
when adversity is high, strong resilience remains
our best hope for the future.

Technology continues to drive our work.
Online data and artificial intelligence can
detect where people are most at risk, whether
from climate insecurity or refugee crises,
failed peace processes or youth exclusion.
The UNDP-supported Bangladesh Peace

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on resilience in 2021

18

Students pose for a picture at Al Mansour Primary School for Boys in West Mosul, Iraq, where
UNDP-supported cash-for-work teams repair school desks and paint murals.
Photo: UNDP Iraq/Claire Thomas

19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENVIRONMENT

CLIMATE ACTION
BEFORE SELF-DESTRUCTION
Putting nature and the environment at the heart of national economies and planning;
helping governments protect, manage and value their natural assets.
2021 exposed the sheer depth of our planetary
crisis, sparking major global talks on climate
action and biodiversity. UNDP was in full support
of these actions, having made steady investments
in climate and environment programmes. More
than ever before, we helped governments put
nature at the heart of plans for their economies
and societies, while also pulling in a broader
constituency from business and the public to play
equally important roles.
The expectation leading up to the review of the
Paris Climate Agreement was that countries would
issue more ambitious Nationally Determined
Contributions (NDCs). UNDP’s Climate Promise
is the world’s largest source of support for these
climate action plans, combining the expertise
of over 35 partners, including leading UN
development organizations, the World Bank and
the International Labour Organization (ILO). By the
end of 2021, over 90% of 120 Climate Promise
countries had increased climate mitigation goals
in their NDCs and over 95% had raised their
ambitions on climate adaptation.
In Timor-Leste, UNDP supported the Government
in establishing a comprehensive national policy
framework to align with a slew of international
agreements on environment and climate. New
plans and policies have spelled out actions
to curb and adapt to climate change, diminish
pollution and protect ecosystems.

20

40 COUNTRIES

supported to finance action on
biodiversity decline

127,000 FARMERS
in Bhutan benefited from
climate-resilient technology
and techniques

62 COUNTRIES

sustainably managed 30 million
acres of forest (2018–2021)

We also saw the world’s largest-ever private
funding commitment to biodiversity conservation,
aimed at protecting and preserving 30% of
the planet by the end of the current decade.
The Taskforce on Nature-related Financial
Disclosures, co-funded by UNDP, aims to steer
massive flows of global finance towards “naturepositive” investments.
UNDP is working with the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(FAO) to set a new agenda for “repurposing”
harmful agricultural subsidies. Billions of dollars
in savings could jump-start the transformation
of food systems, and 27 countries are now
developing plans for repurposing subsidies.
COVID-19 fallout is threatening severe debt
distress that could derail actions on nature and
the climate. UNDP has supported over a dozen
countries to consolidate debt and channel
savings to investment in climate action and
nature-based solutions.
The direction of this signature solution remains
clear: we must take care of our planet.

Over 330 students, women champions, government officials, members of non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) and community members gathered in an effort to plant 3,000 mangroves
and conserve Cambodia’s coastline.
Photo: UNDP Cambodia/Manuth Buth

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on the environment in 2021

21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: ENERGY

SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY
BEFORE FINITE FUELS

18 COUNTRIES

joined UNDP’s Africa Minigrids
Programme for energy access

$600 BILLION

commitment from governments
and businesses to invest in
universal, sustainable energy

500 MILLION

people targeted to gain access
to clean energy by 2025

Increasing energy access for those furthest behind and accelerating the transition
to renewable energy.
2021 was a pivotal year for UNDP’s work on
energy as it moved beyond a long-standing
emphasis on energy access, in order to forge
stronger links between energy and a spectrum
of development issues. The first United
Nations global summit on energy in 40 years,
orchestrated with UNDP support through its
partnership with Sustainable Energy for All,
spurred global momentum.
UNDP set up a Sustainable Energy Hub to
systematically support countries in transforming
energy systems in ways that deliver on multiple
development goals, from livelihoods to health
and education, and towards economies that are
greener, more inclusive and more just.
Flagship programmes such as Solar for Health
geared up, delivering reliable electricity through
solar energy to over 1,000 health centres and
medical storage facilities in 15 countries. We
also set up the Energy Access and Green
Productive Use of Electricity Financing Facility,
with potential to leverage over $1B in private
sector investments.

With UNDP support, Mauritius is committed
to drawing 60% of energy needs from green
sources by 2030 and totally phasing out
coal. We have already helped introduce new
technology that stores renewable energy
and ensures a reliable supply feeds into the
electrical grid.
Bahrain has achieved 95% of a national
renewable energy target and 90% of an energy
efficiency target by tapping UNDP support in
crafting policies on green buildings, electric
vehicles and incentives for renewable energy
providers. With UNDP’s support, China has
taken strides towards applying promising fuel
cell technologies that burn hydrogen instead
of oil and gas. Furthermore, introducing
hydrogen fuel to energy-intensive steel
production is a promising start in curbing
the industry’s major contributions to
greenhouse gas emissions.
This is all strong evidence that the
world can decarbonize its future.

UNDP is helping countries at diverse stages
of development to adopt clean energy
supplies. The Fossil Fuel Reform simulator
explores country-level data to understand
the implications of subsidies and how they
could instead be used to finance different
development priorities.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on energy in 2021

22

To combat the effects of climate change on the depleted farming region of Chullpia, Peru, local
inventor Juansergio Castro found a solution: floating solar panels that provide energy for an engine
to fill up reservoirs. The water is used to irrigate nearby pasture, improving the lives of residents.
Photo: UNDP Peru/Maria Paz Gonzales

23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

SIGNATURE SOLUTION: GENDER

GENDER EQUALITY
BEFORE THE NEXT GENERATION
Confronting the structural obstacles to gender equality and strengthening women’s
economic empowerment and leadership.
The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed systemic
gender discrimination. With less secure jobs,
women were pushed out of labour markets at
higher rates than men. Levels of gender-based
violence soared. Making a difficult situation
worse, many governments pursued genderblind policy measures for pandemic recovery.
The UNDP-UN Women COVID-19 Global Gender
Response Tracker told this story, revealing that
less than 20% of policy measures addressed
women’s economic insecurity and unfair burden
of unpaid care, even though both are critical to
women’s ability to recover.
This has strengthened UNDP’s commitment
to accelerate the dismantling of structural
barriers to gender equality, now a principal
direction in our 2022–2025 Gender Equality
Strategy. This means the empowerment and
equality of women as individuals, and the
transformation of social norms, laws, policies
and institutions so they uphold women’s rights
and hopes for progress.

73 COUNTRIES

supported to make social
protection gender-responsive

3,700
WOMEN-OWNED
microenterprises in Uganda
gained skills and tools to
recover and thrive after
COVID-19

96 COUNTRIES

supported to address gender-based
violence that arose during COVID-19

UNDP helped to improve legal frameworks
and policies offering lasting protection in 96
countries. Through the European Union-UN
Spotlight Initiative, UNDP helped mobilize
parliamentarians in nine countries to draft
or strengthen 84 laws promising a tougher
response to gender-based violence. Reforms
to the federal penal code in Mexico for the
first time covered digital and media violence
against women. The Parliament of Papua New
Guinea approved the first dedicated budget
allocation to the national strategy to respond
to gender-based violence. Kyrgyzstan also
incorporated provisions to address genderbased violence in its tax code.
As long as there are more gender gaps closing
than opening, there will be a gender-equality
generation in the future.

Peru put in place a framework for developing
a national care system to ensure women gain
the basics of decent work, social protection
and essential services. Argentina is building a
more comprehensive care system with a change
in municipal regulations, prioritizing care as a
human right.

UN partners with whom we worked most frequently on gender in 2021

24

Refugees waiting consultation at Ali Addeh Health Centre in Djibouti. Since 2000,
UNDP has made gender equality central to its work in the country.
Photo: UNDP Djibouti/Aurélia Rusek

25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Climate Promise

How safe is everyone?

Helping countries reach their climate goals

Special report: New threats to human security in the Anthropocene

The Climate Promise is UNDP’s response to the climate crisis, linking the combined expertise
of over 35 partners. Ahead of COP26 in Glasgow, it supported 84% of all Nationally Determined
Contributions submitted by developing countries.

90%

95%

Many developing countries stepped up,
from a bold goal to cut emissions by 82%
in North Macedonia to Cambodia’s pledge
to halve deforestation by 2030.

In 2022, 120 countries and 35 partners
are now part of the Climate Promise, the
world’s largest offer of its kind.

Of these 120 countries, over 90%
increased their mitigation ambition and
over 95% raised their adaptation ambition.

As we look towards COP27 in Sharm el Sheikh, we are focusing on how we can work with our
partners to turn climate pledges into impact. The next phase of the Climate Promise will leverage Nationally Determined Contributions as sovereign investment plans for sustainable development, including for co-benefits towards poverty reduction, education and peace.

26

Peoples’ Climate Vote

Dear World Leaders

With 1.2 million respondents, this was the largest
survey of public opinion on climate change
ever conducted, and helped policymakers to
understand public priorities for tackling the
climate crisis. Published by UNDP in 2021.

UNDP launched Dear World Leaders
at COP26 to enable people around
the world to send messages to
leaders about the climate crisis.
dearworldleaders.org

The Anthropocene—the “age of humans”—has placed our planet in a perilous position.
Humanity’s very future depends on countries and communities working together as a global
family to reach common goals. Only then can we achieve a positive pathway towards freedom
from want, fear and indignity.
This report stresses that insecurity is strongly associated with low interpersonal trust, whereby
something is “not right” in the way we see, interact and cooperate with each other. We need
to rebuild the broken trust between people across our societies if we are to be able to tackle
challenges like climate change. Advancing human security offers a road to the restoration of trust.
In this era, we need to consider the interdependence not just between people, but between
people and planet. In fact, this new security lens must be prioritized, because the unifying factor
in the challenges we face is their disregard for geographical borders and nation states.
Multiple threats from COVID-19, digital technology, climate change and social inequalities have
emerged, become more prominent or taken new forms in recent years. The report argues that
human security can help to illuminate these development blind spots.
It’s time to redefine what human progress actually means, empowering all countries and
communities to play their part in the future of human development and a more secure planet. We
must pay more attention to the security of our neighbours if we are to tackle the interconnected
threats we all now face.

27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Private sector partnerships
Each collaboration makes a difference
2021 saw significant strategic private sector engagement in pursuing the SDGs, as we continued to
develop new partnerships for existing initiatives, including:

Insurance and Risk Finance Facility
Transforming how countries finance risk management, climate action and development by working
closely with industry and governments.
The Tripartite Agreement between Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and
Development (BMZ), UNDP and the Insurance Development Forum (IDF), with 10 of the world’s
largest insurance companies:

Industry partners offer up to $5 billion of risk capacity.

MSMEs

SDG Impact
The SDG Investor Platform encourages the private sector to adopt SDG-aligned investment
practices. 18 countries received insights into 312 investment opportunity areas.

Since 2019, our partnership continues to accelerate SDG progress, drive innovation, raise nontraditional revenue streams and increase the organization’s advocacy reach, including through
dynamic youth-driven initiatives like #Generation17.
•	 200M mobile devices have installed the Samsung Global Goals app
•	 $4M raised through corporate and individual donations

Economic opportunities for 1 million youth in
post-COVID Bangladesh over the next 5 years

Women Innovators Programme (WIP) helped
21 women-led start-ups from 12 countries
in the Arab States region

Partnering platforms and programmes include:
the Data Futures Platform, the UN Biodiversity
Lab and Microsoft Planetary Computer and
Impact observatory, the Open Solution Platform
with the Global Environment Facility (GEF) Small
Grants Programme and Microsoft Project 15, and
Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for
energy access planning.

Youth Co:Lab, co-led by UNDP:
Implemented in 28 countries and
territories in Asia and the Pacific
200,000+ participants
9,500 young social entrepreneurs
benefited
1,240 youth-led social enterprises
202 ecosystem partners

Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) account for thousands of our private sector
partners. Businesses of all sizes are joining forces with UNDP through our Accelerator Labs
Network, Sustainable Finance Hub, SDG Impact and other initiatives.

Connecting Business initiative
Partnership between the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs
(OCHA) and UNDP celebrated its fifth anniversary in May 2021. To date, achievements include:
•	 $84M in cash and in-kind support
•	 100 crisis responses
•	 18M+ people helped in coordination with
governments and the UN system

28

•	 In 2021, during COVID-19:
º	 $7.2M in cash and in-kind support
º	 1.2M people received critical
humanitarian assistance
º	 53,500 people supported through early
recovery programmes

29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

UN family
Partnering for people, planet and peace
2021 marked a year of transition for UNDP and our UN partners. We were able to respond to
multidimensional challenges and crises with a stronger sense of partnership and innovation. This
also supported UNDP’s strong push for the acceleration of the SDGs. Broadly speaking, the partnerships covered three areas of development:

•	

$1.84B managed for the UN Development System

•	

120 countries benefited from UNpooled funding services to respond to
their humanitarian, peacebuilding, development and climate challenges

•	

49 UN entities engaged in
collaboration through UNpooled funding services

•	

In 2021, as a UN system-wide
service, UNV deployed 10,921 UN
volunteers, a 15% increase over 2020

•	

UN volunteers representing 173 different
nationalities supported 55 UN entities in
160 countries and territories: 80% were
from the global South, 53% were women
and 59% were national UN volunteers

•	

The United Nations Capital Development
Fund (UNCDF) provided financial and digital
solutions to 3 million+ people and supported
588 local governments with local investments through $42.5M in grants and loans,
unlocking $89M in additional financing

People
UNDP, alongside the international community, continued to support the transition from
response to recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, through:

Vaccine Equity

Social Protection

Transformative Financing

Together with our partners,
we are helping to achieve
the realization of the WHO
target to vaccinate at least
70% of the world’s population against COVID-19 in
2022. The Global Dashboard
for Vaccine Equity, combining current socio-economic
information, was created in
collaboration with WHO and
the University of Oxford.

Through innovative social protection
mechanisms, job creation and digitalization, UNDP worked closely with
the ILO on the UN Secretary-General’s roadmap to create at least 400
million jobs in the green, digital
and care economies, as well as on
other joint global initiatives. UNDP
also supported 88 countries to design, launch and mobilize resources
in response to the pandemic.

With UNDP support, more
than 70 countries used
Integrated National Financing
Frameworks (INFFs) to
finance their recovery from
the pandemic. In partnership
with UNICEF, we have been
able to shift more resources
towards the needs of children.

Peace
Planet
UNDP’s Climate Promise work (page
26) and its leadership at the COP26
in Glasgow were carried out in
strong partnership with:

30 30

UNDP worked alongside UN
partners worldwide to build more
anticipatory and preventative
approaches to crises for more
agile, risk-informed and longterm recoveries. In Afghanistan,
we partnered with 16 UN entities
and the Special Trust Fund for
Afghanistan (STFA).

•	 416 institutions connected,
with 800+ good practices shared on
the digital platform “South-South Galaxy”
to scale-up South-South cooperation (SSC)
for SDGs, with special focus on least developed countries (LDCs) and Small Island
Developing States (SIDS)
•	

69 developing countries implemented
impactful SSC initiatives in partnership
with 20 UN agencies, supported by
SSC Trust Funds

•	

3,400+ development practitioners from
155 counties and territories benefited from
SSC capacity development trainings across
7 thematic areas

Our top 10 UN partners working together across our signature solutions and beyond were:

31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

Don’t choose extinction

Hello #FutureSmartUNDP

Frankie and celebrities warn the world about climate change

Our new development benchmark

Helping us fight climate change and inequality, a global line-up of Goodwill Ambassadors, celebrities,
activists and influencers participated in and promoted UNDP’s #DontChooseExtinction campaign,
starring Frankie the Dinosaur. Lending their support—and famous voices—were Jack Black, Eiza Gonzales, Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, Aïssa Maïga, Greta Thunberg, Whoopi Goldberg, Antonio Banderas,
Billie Eilish, Padma Lakshmi, Michelle Yeoh, Cody Simpson, Ellie Goulding, Dave Matthews, Rosario
Dawson, Aidan Gallagher, Lil Dicky, Alexis Ren, Ronen Rubinstein and others. Celebrity media appearances on top-tier morning and news shows reached 367 million people, while their social media posts
reached 118 million and counting. The campaign launch video has reached 1.2 billion views.

The world keeps getting smarter—but also more challenging. Every day, a virus is trying to
outsmart us. Too many people are being left behind. Conflict is rampant. And the climate crisis
has reached a state of emergency.
At UNDP, we believe it’s time to set a new benchmark for the future of development. UNDP’s
new Strategic Plan has a vision to stay at the forefront of development thinking and action.
We aim to help countries go beyond solving immediate development challenges and confronting the complexity of the moment, to achieving systemic change so that people can
better equip themselves for whatever they may face in the future.

What is future-smart development?
#FutureSmartUNDP is an evolution of its predecessor, #NextGenUNDP. It continues to
build more innovative ways to think, invest, manage and deliver until no one is left behind.
More than a mantra, being future smart is the sustainability sweet spot that combines a
future-focused approach with intelligent, informed decisions.

Digitally native
Scaled-up ambition

The power of digital across all
our work

Jack Black

32

Aïssa Maïga

The COVID-19 “A Shot for All” public service announcement featured our Goodwill Ambassadors Padma Lakshmi, Yemi Alade, Michelle Yeoh
and Connie Britton, calling on world leaders to
work together to ensure that vaccines are available to everyone, everywhere. The announcement was promoted by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) and was covered by Al
Jazeera and other media outlets.

Nikolaj Coster-Waldau

Photo: Holly Schnaudigel

Photo: Uka Borregaard

Photo: Holly Schnaudigel

Photo: Getty Images

One-world approach to
tackling cross-cutting crises

Eiza Gonzalez

The year was rounded off with a key celebrity
moment at the SDG Global Festival of Action,
where the United Nations Correspondents
Association (UNCA) honoured Goodwill Ambassador Padma Lakshmi with the top prize,
2021 UNCA Advocate of the Year Award, for
her work with UNDP on fighting for equality,
including global vaccine equity.

Smarter data

Advanced data provides greater
insights and impact

Future-proofing

Prepare and adapt better—
before, and during, each new
challenge

Working together in this way means we are well placed to build a better future for all, with people
and planet in balance.
33

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Top 2021 UNDP funding partners 	

Top partners

The Global
Fund

United
States

Argentina

Germany

Sweden

European
Union

Multi-Partner
Trust Fund

Norway

Dominican
Republic

Japan

United
Kingdom

Global
Environment
Facility

Netherlands

Green
Climate
Fund

El Salvador

Highlights in 2021
15% increase in government financing
Contributions from government financing increased from $1.13B in 2020 to $1.30B in 2021
18% increase in vertical funds
Contributions from vertical funds increased from $988M in 2020 to $1.17B in 2021

The Global Fund
United States
Germany
Multi-Partner Trust Fund
European Union
Japan
Global Environment Facility
Green Climate Fund
Argentina
Sweden
Norway
Dominican Republic
United Kingdom
Netherlands
El Salvador
Switzerland
Denmark
UN Agencies
Canada
Republic of Korea
Honduras
Belarus
Colombia
Egypt
Turkmenistan
Panama
Brazil
Haiti
Dominica
Australia

546M
400M
378M
377M
334M
308M
297M
284M
241M
220M
115M
108M
108M
93M
86M
83M*
79M
76M
74M
73M
61M
56M
56M
48M
45M
44M
41M
40M
40M
35M
100M

14% increase in the proportion of non-earmarked thematic funding windows
The share of flexible contributions to thematic funding windows increased from
24% in 2020 to 38% in 2021

300M

Other Resources

400M

500M

600M

*An additional $13.3M core intended for
2021 was received in March 2022.

Top core contributors

(Millions of US$)

37.2M

30M

24.5M
Germany

20M
7.4M

10M

y

an

rm
Ge

rk

ma

n
De

ds

an

Ne

rl
the

5.1M

nd

rla

itze
Sw

4.0M

rg

ou

b
em
Lux

Flexible to window, sub-window, region or country

34

200M

Core funds are flexible, regular resources, not earmarked for a specific project or theme.

Funding Windows
40M

Regular Resources

(Millions of US$)

Invaluable investors

3.9M

blic
pu rea
e
R Ko
of

United States

Sweden

Japan

Norway

Netherlands

Canada

United
Kingdom

Denmark

Switzerland

1.8M

n

de

e
Sw

Earmarked to projects

All financial figures are provisional as of April 2022 and subject to change until the completion of audited
financial statements.

35

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

Testimonials

Thank you for the fantastic and
indispensable support in recent years. You
have earned our appreciation and esteem

Recognition from partners and innovators

We are very pleased with this symbiosis,
this teamwork with international
organizations … especially with UNDP
UNDP has achieved excellent outcomes on
gender diverse recruitment, promotion and
succession planning … Genuine support and
dedicated resourcing are in place in order to
ensure gender diversity and inclusion
- Economic Dividends for Gender Equality
(EDGE) Awards

[UNDP is] solving the acceleration problem with
a portfolio mindset, employing the power of the
collective, and it’s doing so at an unprecedented scale

UNDP has handled the turbulent context of
the recent years well. It demonstrated great
resilience and new dynamism in responding
to the COVID-19 pandemic
- Multilateral Organisation Performance
Assessment Network (MOPAN)

Sincere thanks and
appreciation for the valuable
contribution made by UNDP

A commendable example of cross-sectoral
and cross-country collaboration among
organizations and communities … for more
effective monitoring and implementation of
SDG 15 targets
- Earth Observations for Sustainable
Development Goals (EO4SDG), Group on Earth
Observations (GEO) SDG Award

- Ministry of Tourism, Sri Lanka
Having effective access to the right data
is critical to a nation’s effort in combating
COVID-19. To solve this challenge, the
UNDP conceived of a COVID-19 socioeconomic recovery data platform
The United States will continue to look to UNDP to
provide strong leadership and coordination among UN
agencies to link their work across the humanitarian,
development and peacebuilding spectrum

36

I would like to express my satisfaction with
the quality of the cooperation and the fruitful
partnership that binds this Ministry and UNDP
- Ministry of Solidarity, Social Development,
Equality and the Family (MSDSEF), Morocco

- Ministry of Environment and Sustainable
Development, Panama

- Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)

- United States Mission to the United Nations

- Somaliland House of Representatives

- DrivenXDesign award, UNDP COVID-19
Data Futures Platform

The joint efforts in SDG-related areas
have resulted in noteworthy impact
- Amitabh Kant, Chief Executive Officer,
National Institution for Transforming India,
Government of India

The [SDG Impact] Practice Standards
… strategic partnership with UNDP
solidifies our alignment in thinking,
and allows us to support the rollout
and adoption of the standards
- Social Value International

We are very satisfied and
excited for what is yet to come
- Centro de Estudio de Estado y Sociedad
(CEDES), Argentina

[UNDP Accelerator] Labs are helping governments
make complex systems visible and understand
problems closer to real time—enabling them to
respond more effectively to localized issues

UNDP was a formidable presence
in the lists of top 10 influencers …
and was among the top 10 donors in
helpfulness in four of six regions
- Listening to Leaders 2021

- Nesta’s Centre for Collective Intelligence Design

37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

Working near and far
Latin America and the Caribbean
•	 Panama Regional Hub
•	 Argentina
•	 Barbados and the
Eastern Caribbean
(covering Anguilla,
Antigua and Barbuda,
Barbados, the British
Virgin Islands, Dominica,
Grenada, Monserrat,
Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines)
•	 Bolivia
•	 Brazil
•	 Chile
•	 Colombia

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Costa Rica
Cuba
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica (covering
the Bahamas, Belize,
Bermuda, Cayman
Islands, Jamaica, Turks
and Caicos Islands)
•	 Mexico
•	 Panama
•	 Paraguay

Europe and Central Asia

Africa
•	 Peru
•	 Suriname
•	 Trinidad and Tobago
(covering Aruba,
Curacao, Sint Maarten,
Trinidad and Tobago)
•	 Uruguay
•	 Venezuela

North America
•	 New York headquarters

•	 Addis Ababa Regional
Service Centre
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

REPRESENTATION OFFICES
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

38
38

Brussels Representation Office (covering European Union)
Geneva Representation Office
Germany Representation Office
Nordic Representation Office (covering Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden)
Tokyo Representation Office
Washington Representation Office

Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cameroon
Cape Verde
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros 
Côte d’Ivoire
Democratic Republic of
the Congo
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius and Seychelles
Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Republic of the Congo
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Sierra Leone
South Africa
South Sudan
Togo
Uganda
United Republic of
Tanzania
Zambia
Zimbabwe

Asia and the Pacific

•	 Istanbul Regional Hub

•	 Bangkok Regional Hub

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Cyprus
Georgia
Kazakhstan
Kosovo (as per UN Security Council
Resolution 1244 [1999])
Kyrgyzstan
Moldova
Montenegro
North Macedonia
Serbia
Tajikistan
•	 Amman Regional Hub
Turkey
Turkmenistan
•	 Algeria
Ukraine
•	 Bahrain
Uzbekistan
•	 Djibouti
•	 Egypt
•	 Iraq
•	 Jordan
•	 Kuwait
•	 Lebanon
•	 Libya
•	 Morocco
•	 Programme of Assistance to the
Palestinian People
•	 Saudi Arabia
•	 Somalia
•	 Sudan
•	 Syrian Arab Republic
•	 Tunisia
•	 Yemen

Arab States

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Afghanistan
Bangladesh
Bhutan
Cambodia
China
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
India
Indonesia
Iran, Islamic Republic of
Lao People’s Democratic Republic
Malaysia (covering Brunei Darussalam,
Malaysia, Singapore)
Maldives
Mongolia
Myanmar
Nepal
Pacific Office in Fiji (covering Federated
States of Micronesia, Fiji, Kiribati, the
Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Solomon
Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu)
Pakistan
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa (covering Cook Islands, Niue,
Samoa, Tokelau)
Sri Lanka
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Viet Nam

POLICY CENTRES
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Doha (Partnership and Technical Advice Office)
Istanbul International Center for Private Sector in Development
Nairobi Global Centre on Resilient Ecosystems and Desertification
Oslo Governance Centre
Rome Centre for Sustainable Development
Seoul Policy Centre for Knowledge Exchange through SDG Partnerships
Singapore Global Centre for Technology, Innovation and Sustainable Development

39

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

United Nations Development Programme
One United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017
www.undp.org
© UNDP 2022
40

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

