1

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

UNDP IN 2017

170

MORE THAN

17,500

PEOPLE WORKING

IN
COUNTRIES &
TERRITORIES
INVESTING MORE THAN

ON

$4.63

4,500+

BILLION

PROJECTS

UNDP is currently

STRENGTHENING 1 IN 3 PARLIAMENTS

IN DEVELOPMENT
PROGRESS

Invested

WORLDWIDE and

SUPPORTING AN ELECTION EVERY 2 WEEKS

$3.6 BILLION IN GRANTS for
ENVIRONMENT INITIATIVES
in 141 COUNTRIES in 2017

Ranked

Ranked

D
P

in the Aid Transparency Index 20162
N

CC
M

ba
l
lo
G

U

N

IC

EF

Fu

nd

U.
S

UNDP
WORLD BANK

.,

D

FI

D

IN DEVELOPMENT INFORMATION FOR POLICY MAKING
in a recent survey of policymakers by AidData1

#1 IN TRANSPARENCY
U

#1 IN VALUE FOR MONEY

EU
UNICEF
USA

2 1. AidData is a research initiative of the College of William & Mary, Brigham Young University, and Development Gateway.

2. Ranking by the International Aid Transparency Initiative of accountability for aid, development and humanitarian resources.

3

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Introduction
UNDP Administrator

Development does not happen
overnight, but is nevertheless urgent.

When I joined UNDP as Administrator in June of 2017,

cooking and heating. Every year, US $1.26 trillion is lost

The universal commitment to the Sustainable Develop-

we are supporting governments across the globe as

I was pleased to be taking the helm at the world’s

to corruption. In the past decade, 700,000+ people

ment Goals and UN reform together present UNDP with

they transform societies.

leading development organisation. I had inherited from

have been killed in climate-related disasters. There

a tremendous opportunity to help countries become

my predecessor, Helen Clark, a strong organisation

has been a 50% increase in CO2 emissions since 1990.

more peaceful and prosperous.

that was recognized the world over for its transparency

Only 23.5% of the world’s parliamentarians are women.

UNDP will do this work with the rest of the UN system
and our partners. We remain committed to the highest

That’s why UNDP is transforming for a new era of sus-

standards of transparency and accountability to the

The challenges we face can seem overwhelming, and

tainable development. Our innovations and reform are

people, governments, institutions, and organisations

It was then, and is still, an organisation with a proud

the temptation to give in to a dark vision of our future

described in our new Strategic Plan 2018-2021, the first

with which we work.

history of more than a half-century of helping countries

is great.

plan to be conceived and carried out entirely in the era

and bold action.

in every corner of the world to fight poverty, create
jobs, administer elections, prevent disaster, and
recover after crisis. Our thousands of staff dedicate
themselves every day to working with partners to
achieve this and more.
As we continue this work, the world is facing a set of
unprecedented challenges.

But there is much room for optimism. We can take
heart that every country in the world has committed
to a bold plan—the Sustainable Development Goals
set out in the 2030 Agenda—to end poverty, fight
inequality and tackle climate change.
Recognizing this context, the United Nations, led by
Secretary-General António Guterres, is undergoing

A staggering 650 million people are living in extreme

system-wide reforms to remain effective even as

poverty—about 16% of them in fragile countries. Three

more and different demands are made of it.

of the Sustainable Development Goals. The Plan identifies six ‘Signature Solutions’ that build on our strengths
as an organisation; we will use these solutions to focus
our resources and expertise, and make a real impact

With a more dynamic UNDP offering even more
support to countries on the frontlines of the biggest
challenges, we will take another step towards
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals.

on poverty, governance, energy, gender, resilience, and
the environment.
We understand that development does not happen
overnight, but is nevertheless urgent. With a network
encompassing 170 countries and territories,

Achim Steiner
Administrator
United Nations Development Programme

billion people are using dirty sources of energy for
4

5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Progress in numbers
UNDP results 2014-2017

Our initiatives assisted:

Nearly

170M NEW VOTERS
to register in 52 countries

More than
to have improved access
to energy in 55 countries

Nearly

6

That’s why in UNDP’s new Strategic Plan we

partner with on how well we’re able to measure

commit to enhance our business model, cultivate

and deliver results. This level of transparency and

new partners, and, as always, work globally across

accountability is a hallmark of UNDP.

sectors and the Sustainable Development Goals.

But UNDP is not content to rest on the progress

That means ever-greater results in the years to come,

that we’ve worked with countries to achieve.

and maximum impact for every dollar invested.

to gain access to legal aid
services in 39 countries,
51% of them women

2M PEOPLE

to find new jobs,
41% of them women
UNDP is rightly judged by those we serve and

to benefit from
improved livelihoods

4.1M PEOPLE

6.7M PEOPLE

3M PEOPLE

37.3M PEOPLE

to receive antiretroviral
treatment in 22 countries
(as of mid-2017)

104 COUNTRIES

to implement low-emission
andclimate-resilient measures

7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Partnerships

will build new and stronger partnerships with gov-

From artificial intelligence to climate change, the world

ernments, the private sector, international financial

is on the cusp of dramatic changes. For this reason, a

institutions, non-profit organisations, academia, and

dynamic, effective and future-focused UNDP is needed

others. The 2030 Agenda, with its targets and

now more than ever. That kind of UNDP—the one we

No single entity alone can achieve the 2030 Agenda—

The breadth and depth of UNDP’s partnerships is al-

deadline, gives us a clear foundation on which to

envision in the new Strategic Plan—will be possible

the Sustainable Development Goals are a declaration of

ready unparalleled. Few organisations work as closely

forge longer-term partnerships.

only with the continued support and close collabora-

interdependence. Delivering on the promise of the SDGs

as UNDP does with such a wide mix of partners—public

will involve or affect every country, every economy, ev-

and private—across so many different contexts. But

For over 50 years, UNDP has valued the trust of

ery private company, every non-governmental organisa-

the challenges the world faces requires even more. To

all its partners, and understands that such trust

tion, every academic institution, and every UN agency.

better help the countries and people we serve, UNDP

must be earned.

tion of our valued partners.

PARTNERSHIPS IN COUNTRIES

PARTNERSHIPS WITH REGIONAL ORGANISATIONS

UNDP focuses on helping countries achieve their development goals. Countries are at the
centre of our partnerships. From Afghanistan to Zimbabwe, UNDP provides expertise, networks,
and other resources to 170 countries as they face their own specific challenges.

UNDP partners with regional associations such as the African Union, the European Union, and
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). These partnerships are tailored to the
needs of the region and the partners, and focus on a range of issues, such as public health,
good governance, disaster risks and resilience, human rights and the rule of law, access to
justice, and gender equality.

PARTNERSHIPS ACROSS THE UN SYSTEM

UNDP plays a vital role as part of the UN family and the development system, providing worldclass advice, services and support across the broad spectrum of settings in which we operate.
Among our partners within the UN system are:

PARTNERSHIPS WITH THE PRIVATE SECTOR

UNDP’s private sector experience is underpinned by strong relationships with governments,
deep understanding of development, and expertise in sustainable business. In 2017, we
worked with thousands of businesses, from the largest of global brands like Microsoft and Visa,
to small companies, social enterprises, and local cooperatives. These partnerships mean more
effective action in all the programme areas in which UNDP works.

PARTNERSHIPS WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

UNDP’s engagement with international financial institutions (IFIs) is critical to help governments
leverage additional financing, expertise and advocacy for greater development impact. UNDP
currently works with 15 IFIs (including multilateral, regional and national development banks with
international objectives), such as the World Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, and the
Asian Development Bank.

PARTNERSHIPS WITH ACADEMIA

UNDP recognizes the important role that academia can play in understanding and addressing
the world’s most pressing development challenges. We partner with top academic institutions
in Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America.

8

9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Hosting specialized functions
of the UN system

Partnering with the world

UNDP is a vital part of the UN family, and facilitates

the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) and UN

much of the work of other UN agencies.

Volunteers (UNV), and hosts the UN Office of South-

We administer payroll for approximately 17,700

South Cooperation (UNOSSC) and the Multi-Partner

non-UNDP personnel across the system. We provide

Trust Fund (MPTF) Office.

shared premises and common services for agencies

In this and other ways, big and small, UNDP is

in 113 countries, and close to $700 million in financial

essential to the entire UN system’s efforts to

services to the system. In addition, UNDP administers

achieve the SDGs.

UNITED NATIONS CAPITAL
DEVELOPMENT FUND
The UN Capital Development Fund,
administered by UNDP, makes public and
private finance work for the poor in the
world’s 47 least developed countries.

In 2017, after a mudslide in Sierra Leone killed hundreds and displaced thousands, UNDP worked with government agencies such
as the Office of National Security and UN entities such as UNOPS. Here and elsewhere, UNDP works with partners of all kinds
to ensure the best results.

UN VOLUNTEERS
UNDP administers the UN Volunteers
programme, which in 2017 mobilized nearly

PREVENTING CONFLICT

CREATING JOBS AND RESTORING SERVICES

Established in 2004, the Joint UNDP-UN Department

In Yemen, UNDP received a $300 million World Bank Inter-

of Political Affairs Programme on Building National

national Development Association grant for a three-year

Capacities for Conflict Prevention brings together the

project (2016-2018), providing short-term employment and

development and political arms of the UN to enhance the

service restoration in over 300 districts, sup-

organisation’s support to countries in sustaining peace.

porting local institutions to create over 9 million

The Joint Programme has worked with over 50 countries

working days for 400,000 families, and helping

and supported national architectures for peace, medi-

2.5 million Yemenis access basic services.

ation, and dialogue. It brings a multi-faceted approach
to conflict prevention,
capitalizing on the diversity of the UN system.
For example, UNDP and
DPA have been working
closely together with the Government of Papua New
Guinea and the Autonomous Bougainville Government
(ABG) in preparing the steps for a referendum on the
future constitutional status of Bougainville, to be held by
the end of 2020.

10

INSURING FARMERS AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE
Agriculture is a main source of income in Ethiopia, and
farmers are vulnerable to erratic rainfall, crop failure,

25,000 UN Volunteers in 131 countries and
online; they represented 159 nationalities.

UN OFFICE FOR SOUTH-SOUTH
COOPERATION
Hosted by UNDP since 1974, the UN Office for
South-South Cooperation promotes, coordinates
and supports South-South and triangular cooperation globally and within the United Nations system.

UNCDF
unlocked

$475M

for local economies
between 2014 and
2017

Every year

UNV

mobilizes nearly

25,000
volunteers around
the world

UNOSSC
enabled over

2,000

South-South
partnerships between
2014 and 2017

and other effects of climate change. UNDP
collaborated with government ministries and
two insurance firms in Ethiopia, Oromia and

MULTI-PARTNER TRUST FUND OFFICE

Nyala, to provide farmers with crop insurance.

UNDP houses the Multi-Partner Trust Fund

If rainfall is below a certain threshold, the

Office, which allows multiple donors to pool

company pays insurance claims while UNDP

their funding to support large-scale projects

covers the insurance premium. Over 12,000

and initiatives of the UN system and national

smallholder farmers have already benefited.

governments.

A portfolio of

$10

BILLION+
is currently administered
through the
MPTF Office

11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

A new plan for a new era

UNDP’s new Strategic Plan heralds some big changes to help countries meet the SDGs by the target date of 2030.
These include:

UNDP Strategic Plan 2018–2021

SIGNATURE SOLUTIONS
FROM HELPING PARTS of Iraq to stabilize after conflict, to supporting historic open elections in

A set of integrated responses to development in the following

Zimbabwe, to our work in the Maldives on climate change, and building a lasting peace in Colombia,

areas: poverty, governance, resilience, environment, energy

UNDP helps 170 countries to reach their development priorities so that no one is left behind.

access, and gender equality. Each Solution includes a mix of

The Strategic Plan is an essential tool for UNDP to continue to evolve and adapt over the next four

policy advice, technical assistance, finance, and programmes.

years to drive strong progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

Today’s challenges are complex and each country is different.
That’s why we tailor our work to fit the needs of the countries
we serve.

GLOBAL AND COUNTRY PLATFORMS

+

UNDP and the UN Sustainable Development Group
UNDP plays an essential role in the development work of the larger UN system.

+

Support within and across countries: Our new Global Platform
leverages expertise from around the world to support

The UNDP Administrator is the Vice-Chair of the
UN Sustainable Development Group, which unites

+

+

the funds, programmes, specialized agencies,
departments and offices of the UN system that
play a role in development. The UN Sustainable

individual countries, and a Country Support Platform in each
country harnesses the collective policy and covening power
of the UN, and ramps up innovations for development.

+

Development Group is instrumental in enabling
action on the ground and ensuring that UN Country
Teams have the support, guidance and impartial
oversight required as they help governments deliver
on the 2030 Agenda.

DOING BUSINESS BETTER
We’re boosting our performance to maximize return on every
dollar invested. What’s more, we’re harnessing cutting-edge
technologies and research to generate new ideas to test and
scale up.

12

13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

The road to success:

Signature Solutions
To better focus its resources and expertise to deliver on the 2030 Agenda,
UNDP has identified a set of approaches that we call our Signature Solutions.
No one solution will succeed on its own. We need all of them to achieve the SDGs.
Each solution has the potential to unlock the path to sustainable development.

Keeping people
out of POVERTY

SDG

GOVERNANCE for peaceful,
1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

11

12

13

14

15

16

17

just and inclusive societies

Crisis prevention and
increased RESILIENCE

ENVIRONMENT: nature-based
solutions for development
Clean, affordable

ENERGY
UNDP’s Signature Solutions are cross-cutting approaches to development—
for example, a gender approach or resilience approach can be applied to
any area of development, or to any of the Sustainable Development Goals.
The matrix above shows how the Signature Solutions interact with our work
on the SDGs.

Women’s empowerment
and GENDER equality
On the following pages, you’ll see stories of the six Signature Solutions at work.
Spanning the five regions where we work, these stories illustrate the experience,
dedication, and innovation that UNDP applies to the task of achieving the SDGs.

14

15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Keeping people
out of POVERTY

PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE EMPLOYMENT
In the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, UNDP
and the government set up an ambitious programme
to help long-term unemployed people start their own
businesses through coaching and start-up grants.
Since 2007, nearly 10,000 new businesses have been

Today, 650 million people live in extreme poverty, while another 800 million are at risk of falling
back. People stay in or fall back into poverty because of a range of factors—where they live, their
ethnicity, gender, a lack of opportunities, and others.
Ending poverty is UNDP’s primary focus and features in our work with governments, communities,
and a wide range of partners in all of the 170 countries and territories where we operate. UNDP
interventions help eradicate poverty, such as by creating decent jobs and livelihoods, providing
social safety nets, boosting political participation, and ensuring access to services like water,
energy, healthcare, credit, and productive assets.
Our Signature Solution on poverty cuts across our work on all the SDGs, whether it’s decent work
or peace and justice.

INNOVATION STORY

created, 35% of them run by women entrepreneurs
and 31% by young people. A remarkable 70% of
these companies have remained active beyond the
initial five years, and many have expanded. In 2017,
the scheme accounted for 15% of new private-sector
firms registered in the country.

GROWING YOUNG ENTREPRENEURS
UNDP works with partners in Rwanda to inspire,
and train young entrepreneurs and provide them
with the tools they need to succeed through the
YouthConnekt project. The project offers a boot
camp on business skills, and an annual competition for cash awards and other support to help the
best business plans scale up; it has created nearly 4,000 jobs. UNDP is now supporting expansion
of the project to 14 other African countries.

REWORKING A NATION’S FUTURE

COLLABORATING WITH ACADEMIA

Even before conflict erupted in 2015, Yemen was one

On the occasion of the 20th

of the poorest countries in the Arab region. Now, after

anniversary of the Human

three years of fighting, there is widespread hunger.

Development Report, UNDP

UNDP’s cash-for-work projects get people back to

partnered

work and help restore roads and other infrastructure.

based Oxford Poverty and

In partnership with UNICEF, we’ve helped create

Human Development Initiative to develop the

short-term jobs for over 400,000 people, boost small

Multidimensional Poverty Index to make more so-

businesses in agriculture and fishing, and train young

phisticated measurements of global poverty.

with

the

UK-

people as health and sanitation promoters. That way,
Yemenis can look forward to a safer and better future.

UNDP is partnering with the
World Inequality Lab, based
at the Paris School of Economics, to promote research on global inequality dynamics, such as the

BUILDING HOMES AND DREAMS
The Government of India has an ambitious

World Inequality Database and the biennial World
Inequality Report.

plan to build 30 million houses by the year 2022.
With UNDP’s support, the government is creating

WE HELPED

130 designs for houses to fit India’s diverse housing
needs and that use local materials to reduce
the environmental footprint of housing. Thirteen
states are now building “demonstration” houses
to encourage families to adopt locally appropriate
building materials. Engineers and architects are
offering various styles that can be adapted by
families so their houses feel more like homes.

16

37 MILLION

PEOPLE BENEFIT

IMPROVED
LIVELIHOODS

FROM

17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

LEARNING FROM HISTORY

GOVERNANCE for peaceful,
just and inclusive societies

More than three decades of armed civil conflict in
Guatemala left hundreds of thousands of people
dead or missing, and generations of people scarred.
UNDP is supporting government and non-profit

INNOVATION STORY
BIOMETRICS FOR BETTER GOVERNANCE

organisations to reconcile with this violent history.

In Malawi, UNDP is the lead partner supporting

One UNDP-supported project, “The Room of

People’s lives are better when government is efficient and responsive. When people from all
social groups are included in decision-making that affects their lives, and when they have equal
access to fair institutions that provide services and administer justice, they will have more trust in
their government. The benefits of our work on governance are evident in all the areas covered
by the SDGs, whether it’s climate action or gender equality.

the Government’s new system to register and

Absences,” is part museum, part educational centre,

provide identification to the country’s residents.

and part memorial. Visitors leave the experience

Using the latest biometric technology, the new

transformed and committed to helping build a

system will help guarantee that all Malawians

lasting peace. The project is part of UNDP’s work

can enjoy access to services and the full rights

in the country to strengthen institutions and popular

of citizenship. Registration began in May 2017,

UNDP’s governance work spans a wide range of institutions, from national parliaments, supreme
courts, and national civil services through regional and local administrations, to some of the geographically remotest communities in the world. We work with one out of every three parliaments
on the planet, and assist in an election somewhere in the world on average every two weeks. We
help countries expand spaces for people’s participation, and improve how their institutions work,
so that all people can aspire to a sustainable future with prosperity, peace, justice and security.

support for peace and human rights.

with the target of registering 9 million Malawians
above the age of 16 by year’s end, and creating an
automatic registration process for the future. This

PROTECTING LAND RIGHTS
The Amazon is populated by thousands of indigenous
communities, some of them extremely isolated and

landmark project will serve as a model for other
countries that wish to use biometric technology to
register citizens.

under constant threat. A key step to help indigenous
peoples defend their territories is the recognition
of their land rights. UNDP is working with the

COLLABORATING WITH THE EU

government of Peru and communities to secure

UNDP has a longstanding partnership with the Euro-

recognition of land rights for nearly 70 indigenous

pean Union (EU) to promote good governance and

communities in three regions of the Peruvian Amazon,

make societies more inclusive and

helping to conserve more than 300,000 hectares

resilient. Together, UNDP and the

of forest. By recognizing communities’ rights over

EU are among the largest provid-

their ancestral territories, Peru is also fighting against

ers of electoral assistance worldwide, helping coun-

climate change by avoiding deforestation.

tries carry out credible elections and boost women’s
participation as voters and candidates. This partnership helps millions of people worldwide gain better
access to justice and public services, especially in

UNDERSTANDING VIOLENT EXTREMISM

areas affected by conflict or crises.

In 2017, UNDP launched “Journey to Extremism: Drivers,
Incentives, and the Tipping Point for Recruitment,” a
seminal report on violent extremist groups in Africa,
which were responsible for 33,000 deaths between
2011 and 2016. The report was the result of a two-year
study that explored the life histories and personal
perspectives of extremists. The study showed that the
more prosperous and fair the community, the less likely
it is to produce violent extremists. UNDP uses research,
public education and other methods to tackle the root
causes of violent extremism in Africa. In tandem with the
report launch, UNDP also released Stories of Survivors,
a hardcover book of photos and testimonials.
18

WE HELPED NEARLY

170
MILLION

NEW VOTERS
TO REGISTER
19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

PROTECTING COMMUNITIES FROM FLOODS

INNOVATION STORY

Crisis prevention and
increased RESILIENCE

After Georgia was hit by major flash floods, UNDP

modern early-warning system, built dikes along

Two massive hurricanes unleashed fury in the

Crises know no borders. During the past decade, over 1.5 billion people have been affected by
disasters, and that number is likely to increase with climate change. More people have been uprooted
from their homes by war and violence and sought sanctuary elsewhere than at any time since the
Second World War. Poverty, population growth, weak governance and rapid urbanization are driving
the risks associated with such crises. UNDP helps reduce these risks by supporting countries and
communities to better manage conflicts, prepare for major shocks, recover in their aftermath, and
integrate risk management into their development planning and investment decisions.

the river banks, planted forests, and created a

Caribbean, causing catastrophic damage in Sep-

zoning plan to climate-proof buildings and farms.

tember 2017. To kick-start recovery in the region,

The initiative paved the way for a programme to

UNDP helped inspection teams in Dominica and

protect 1.7 million people from floods and other

Barbuda assess damage using high-tech tools to

climate risks.

collect data in real time—assessing a building in an

The sooner that people can get back to their homes, jobs, and schools, the sooner they can start
thriving again. Resilience building is a transformative process of strengthening the capacity of
people, communities, institutions, and countries to prevent, anticipate, absorb, respond to and
recover from crises. By implementing this Signature Solution, we focus on capacities to address
root causes of conflict, reduce disaster risk, mitigate and adapt to climate change impacts, recover
from crisis, and build sustainable peace. This has an impact that not only prevents or mitigates
crises, but also has an effect on people’s everyday lives across all SDGs.

helped develop a flood resistance plan for the
Rioni River basin, the most flood-prone area in
the country. The programme has helped set up a

ASSESSING DISASTER DAMAGE

average time of seven minutes. All the structures in
Barbuda were assessed in five days—a fraction of
the usual time. UNDP is now scaling up the techBACK TO A NEW LIFE
UNDP is supporting recovery efforts by the
Government of Iraq in the country’s second-

nology to provide country offices with the tools to
gather, analyse and act on real-time data, expediting the disaster recovery process.

largest city, Mosul, recently freed from the Islamic
State in Iraq and the Levant. Among many other
projects, UNDP is helping rehabilitate buildings at
the University of Mosul, a vital road from the city

COLLABORATING WITH THE
PRIVATE SECTOR

to a nearby hospital, and water treatment plants

UNDP and Germany’s Deutsche Post DHL Group

that provide safe water to over 600,000 people.

are partners in Getting Airports Ready for Disaster

All told, these projects are giving the people of

(GARD), an initiative that trains airport managers on

Mosul more reasons to return home, and the basic

keeping these vital hubs functioning in tsunamis,

services they need to stay.

earthquakes, and other crises, so they can process
incoming humanitarian relief supplies. Nearly a
thousand people at
40 airports worldwide

DRONES DELIVER DATA
Because of climate change, 80% of the islands
in the Maldives are only one metre above sea
level, and scientists predict that most of the
islands will be submerged by 2050. Traditional
risk maps provide essential data required to
inform emergency-response plans, but they take
a long time to create. UNDP and the Government
of Maldives are working together to use drones
for mapping—a much faster process that yields
3D maps. Drone mapping will provide critical
information to help protect the 400,000 residents
of the Maldives.

have been trained.

$2.1

BILLION

INVESTED IN

DISASTER RISK

REDUCTION
AND RECOVERY
SINCE 2005

20

21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

PRESERVING PEAT, SAVING THE ENVIRONMENT

ENVIRONMENT: nature-based
solutions for development

Healthy ecosystems are at the heart of development, underpinning societal well-being and economic
growth. Through nature-based solutions, such as the sustainable management and protection of
land, rivers and oceans, we help ensure that countries have adequate food and water, are resilient to
climate change and disasters, and can sustain work for billions of people through forestry, agriculture,
fisheries and tourism.
An important part of this work involves helping governments to access global financing facilities
established to advance environment-related challenges like climate change, clorofluorocarbon
emissions or loss of biodiversity. UNDP manages the second-largest portfolio of projects funded
by the Green Climate Fund, for example. In 2017 alone, UNDP country offices have managed 840
environment projects in 141 countries, valued at $3.6 billion, and leveraged another $15 billion in
co-financing for environment and sustainable development priorities in these countries. With these
funds, UNDP creates nature-based solutions that balance two imperatives: secure, restore and
sustainably manage natural resources, while also protecting the environment that enables human
life to flourish. The environment affects all areas of life, and so our work in this area means progress
on all the SDGs.

Worldwide, 100 million tonnes of peat are sold to heat

INNOVATION STORY

homes, fertilize fields, and produce electricity. It’s big
business—and a devastating one. That’s because peat
traps carbon, up to 500 million tonnes of it in Belarus
alone. The fewer peatlands there are, the more
carbon is released into the atmosphere. A grassroots
movement has successfully pressed for strict limits
on peat mining. With support from UNDP, Belarus
is expanding its network of natural reserves, and
preserving the environment.

NEW APPROACH TO AN OLD PROBLEM
Azerbaijan’s economy depends heavily on oil
and gas, leading to high levels of carbon dioxide
emissions. UNDP collaborated with the country’s
state oil company to introduce environmentally-friendly driving habits through training and
smart technologies, such as an eco-driving simulator, which was tested by the company’s fleet
of 1,000 drivers. The drivers reduced fuel consumption by up to 15%, preventing 1,500 tonnes

UNDERSTANDING THE CLIMATE-HEALTH LINK
Perched in the Himalayas, the country of Bhutan is
vulnerable to health risks posed by changes in its

of carbon dioxide from entering the atmosphere.
Given its early success, the programme is set to
expand nationally.

climate—diarrheal diseases are now widespread, and
dengue fever, never detected in the country before
2004, is now endemic during monsoon season. With

COLLABORATING WITH THE UN SYSTEM

support from UNDP, the government is tracking data

The Poverty-Environment Initiative of UNDP and

on the links between climate and disease. The result

the UN Environment Programme provides fi-

is a national health system with more advance warning

nancing and technical support to countries the

for climate-sensitive diseases, and a country with

world over to help government decision-makers

greater resilience to climate change.

and other stakeholders manage the environment
in a way that improves people’s livelihoods and
leads to sustainable growth. So far, the initiative
has provided support to

PROTECTION AGAINST DEFORESTATION

47 national development

In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, UNDP

plans and over 4,400 local

supports a solidarity group that has rallied support

plans in 17 countries.

among the indigenous peoples of Momboyo forest
to protect 2,000 hectares of forest from which they
derive their income. A regional coordinator of that
group, Régine Mboyo, also won an Equator Prize
for her work as head of a network of 43 indigenous
peoples’ organisations nationwide. That network
helped stop concessions for over 600,000 square
kilometres of forest and maintain a moratorium on the
allocation of extractive industry concessions in the
rainforest.

$3.6 BILLION

INVESTED IN

840

ENVIRONMENT

PROJECTS
22

23

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Clean, affordable

BIG PLANS FOR BIOMASS ENERGY
For years, Moldova struggled with the rising costs

INNOVATION STORY

of importing 97% of its energy, most of it imported

ENERGY

gas. UNDP launched the country’s most ambitious
energy—which uses locally-produced, carbon-

China is the world’s largest consumer and pro-

People can’t prosper without reliable, safe, and affordable energy to power everything from lights
to vehicles to factories to hospitals. And yet more than 1 billion people worldwide have no access
to energy, and nearly three billion people use solid fuels to cook or heat their homes, exposing
their families to grave health hazards and contributing to vast deforestation worldwide. In these
and other ways, energy is connected to every one of the Sustainable Development Goals.

neutral agricultural waste—to hundreds of schools

ducer of energy, and the largest emitter of green-

and other public institutions. So far, over 190,000

house gas—30% of the global total. The country’s

people across 216 villages and towns have switched

demand for energy is increasing, especially in the

to green technologies, creating nearly 800 new jobs,

transport sector. Clean hydrogen can be made

and reducing heating bills by 20%. Whereas in 2011,

from renewable resources and has zero emis-

only 3% of Moldova’s energy consumption came from

sions. UNDP worked with the Government to test

UNDP helps countries transition away from the use of finite fossil fuels and towards clean and
sustainable sources of energy. Our sustainable energy portfolio spans more than 110 countries,
representing around $1 billion in grant financing, and leveraging close to $6 billion more for this
goal from public and private sources.

renewable sources, that proportion is now 15%.

THE POWER OF HYDROGEN

renewable energy project, introducing biomass

hydrogen-fuel-cell-powered buses, and now five
more cities are joining the effort to test such vehicles. UNDP’s initial investment has helped hydrogen fuel cells grow into a $12.6 billion industry in

RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR BETTER LIVES

the country.

One in seven people in Lebanon lives without
electricity. UNDP is working with The UN Refugee
affordable energy and encourage the use of

COLLABORATING WITH FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS

renewables. These investments are going towards

With funding from the Green Climate Fund,

streetlights that make women feel safe at night, lights

UNDP partnered with the European Investment

at home so people can study and work, and heat

Bank on a project to retrofit public buildings and

so that families can stay healthy. In another project,

apartment buildings in Armenia, to make them

UNDP is helping provide stoves and environmentally-

more energy efficient, thereby reducing an es-

friendly briquettes to the most vulnerable people in the

timated 5 million tonnes

North and Bekaa regions.

of C02 emissions over

Agency and the Lebanese Government to provide

the life of the project.

SOLAR POWER FOR GOOD
UNDP is helping distribute 1 million portable solar
lanterns donated by Panasonic to schools and health
centres in northern Kenya, making it possible for
kids to read at night and patients to get care. The
lanterns can get recharged only at school during the
day, providing an incentive for students to attend.
The lanterns are clean and safe, and are replacing
kerosene lamps that pose a fire risk and health hazard;
they’re expected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
by 30,000 tonnes through 2018 alone.

WE HELPED

110
$2
BILLION

COUNTRIES
ACCESS ABOUT

IN GRANTS FOR ENERGY PROJECTS
24

25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

ENDING THE SILENCE

Women’s empowerment
and GENDER equality
Women and girls make up a disproportionate share of people in poverty, and are more likely to
face hunger, violence, and the impacts of disaster and climate change. They are also more likely
to be denied access to legal rights and basic services. Women’s participation in all areas of society is essential to make big and lasting change not only for themselves, but for all people.
As the UN’s leading development agency, UNDP has the ability and responsibility to integrate
gender equality into every aspect of the development effort. Gender equality and women’s
empowerment is a guiding principle that applies to everything we do. Our work on gender ranges
from the political to the economic and beyond. It includes support in more than 60 countries to
end gender-based violence. We are also working in more than 40 countries to advance women’s political participation as parliamentarians, elected officials, in climate action and disaster
risk reduction efforts, and in mediation and peace processes. We also work at the community level, such as by supporting women in starting their own businesses and helping women farmers
gain equal access to and control of resources, financing and land. UNDP pushes for genderresponsive budgeting at all levels of government, making sure that the needs and contributions
of women are taken into consideration in all development policies and plans.

During Colombia’s long civil conflict, sexual violence

INNOVATION STORY

was prevalent in areas with armed fighters—as many
as a half-million during the first decade of the century. With the conflict now over, UNDP is supporting

WOMEN’S ENTREPRENEURSHIP

survivors of sexual violence to rebuild their lives with

UNDP partnered with Microsoft and the National

dignity, by providing them with access to health, pro-

Council for Women (NCW) in Egypt to launch So-

tection, psychosocial and legal care, and other forms

cial Innovation Hubs for Women in Cairo and Is-

of reparation. The project has trained officials on how

mailia, and a third is planned for Alexandria. Each

to investigate sexual violence, documented over 1,600

hub promotes entrepreneurship, social-impact

cases, and promoted reparations or compensations

projects, and income-generating opportunities for

for nearly 1,000 survivors.

women. The effort aims to reach 5,000 women initially, and then expand to districts nationwide. In
addition, UNDP partnered with NCW to launch an

CLOSING THE GENDER GAP
Educational opportunities for women and girls in

innovation camp for young people to help design
an app to report violence against women.

Afghanistan are paltry; school enrollment for girls
is only 36%, and higher education is just as limited,
especially in rural areas. With UNDP support, Kabul

COLLABORATING WITH THE UN SYSTEM

University launched the country’s first-ever master’s

With European Union funding of €500 million,

degree programme in Gender and Women’s Studies.

UNDP works with UN Women, the UN Population

The course aims to produce a cadre of gender-equality

Fund, and other partners on

champions who will fill posts in politics, education and

the Spotlight Initiative to End

other sectors. In 2017, the first class of 28 students

Violence Against Women.

graduated from the two-year programme. Demand for

The initiative responds to

spots in the programme is high and is expected to grow.

all forms of violence against
women and girls, recognizing that this effort is essential

PUTTING GENDER AT THE CENTRE OF THE SDGs

to achieving Agenda 2030.

With support from UNDP, the number of women in
positions of political leadership in Algeria has soared
in recent years. The country’s 2008 constitution promised to secure equal access for women to leadership
positions, and, since 2010, UNDP has backed Algeria’s
efforts to fulfill that pledge. Our expertise in support
of a law to improve women’s participation in government, among other efforts, helped increase the number of women elected to local government posts from
1% to 18%, and the number of women in the national
assembly quadrupled. Today, with over a quarter of
the 462 seats in the National People’s Assembly held
by women, Algeria ranks second in the region in women’s political participation.

26

WITH OUR SUPPORT,

305,000
WOMEN
CANDIDATES
PARTICIPATED IN

NATIONAL ELECTIONS
27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Global events 2017
OCEAN CONFERENCE
June 2017 marked the historic Ocean Conference,
with its powerful message about global
interconnectivity: the ‘seven seas’ are, in fact,
one shared ocean. With the support of UNDP, this
game-changing event secured more than 1,300
commitments from the international community
to protect the ocean. UNDP works with over 100
countries to restore and protect life under water,
and better manage marine resources. From
reducing the risks of marine-invasive species to
creating protected areas in Belize, or safeguarding
fishing livelihoods in India, UNDP is tackling many
urgent threats to our life-sustaining ocean.

THE GLOBAL GOALS WORLD CUP
UNDP is a major partner in the Global Goals World
Cup, an open women’s soccer tournament that
fuses sport, teamwork, and advocacy for the
Sustainable Development Goals. In September
2017, the winning teams from each tournament met
in New York City for the 2nd Global Final, helping
to kick-off UN General Assembly Week. Participants
included a team from Liberia championing universal
access to clean water, a team from Ecuador fighting
for quality education, and a local East Harlem team
striving to end inequality.

PLEDGING CONFERENCE FOR THE CARIBBEAN
In November 2017, UN headquarters held the
CARICOM-UN High-Level Pledging Conference—
an event to engender support to build more
climate resilience across Caribbean countries.
With over 400 high-level representatives from
governments, multilateral and civil-society
organisations and the private sector in attendance,
UNDP emphasized the need for a new financing
architecture to address Small Island Developing
States (SIDS), such as the ones affected by
Hurricanes Irma and Maria earlier in the year. The
conference’s message to “Build Back Better” resonated; participants made over $1.3 billion in pledges,
and over $1 billion in loans and debt relief.

THE UN CLIMATE CHANGE CONFERENCE
In November 2017, the Conference of the Parties
(COP23) was held at the World Conference Center
in Bonn, Germany, under the Presidency of Fiji.
UNDP’s delegation—led by Administrator Achim
Steiner—participated in 30 key events during
the conference. With the Paris Agreement and
national climate targets in place, UNDP’s focus
has transitioned to supporting countries’ shift
into accelerated action and implementation. In
conjunction with COP23, UNDP also helped initiate
the Pathway to Paris “Chorus for Climate Action,”
a star-studded, sold-out concert at Carnegie Hall
in New York City.

SOCIAL GOOD SUMMIT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 2017
UNDP leaders were active in events in and
around the 2017 UN General Assembly. UNDP
Administrator Achim Steiner hosted a high-level
side event on “The SDGs in Action,” and also
presented the awards to the 15 winners of the 2017
Equator Prize for climate action, at a ceremony at
The Town Hall theatre in New York. Also during
GA Week, UNDP released a landmark report on
income inequality in Africa as well as a short film on
the joint work of humanitarian and development
actors in Somalia.
28

In September 2017, the Social Good Summit
(SGS) examined how we can unlock technology’s
potential to make the world a better place. Held
annually during UN General Assembly Week, SGS
unites a dynamic community of global citizens and
progressive thought leaders around the theme
of #2030NOW. Organized by UNDP in partnership with the UN Foundation and Mashable, the
Summit featured a flagship event in New York City,
with five panels led by UNDP leaders or Goodwill
Ambassadors, and events in 87 other countries,
from Madagascar and to Albania, Myanmar, Tunisia, El Salvador, and others.

29

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

Resources

Top 30 Government Contributors to UNDP in 2017

In 2017, contributions totalled $4.9 billion, an increase of 1% over 2016.

Government

Earmarked

Grand total

UNDP distinguishes between regular resources, contributed annually for its core activities and functioning, and

Germany

$28,479,531

$311,223,290

$339,702,821

earmarked resources, contributed for a specific activity, project, or theme.

Japan

$66,301,590

$238,250,370

$304,551,960

In 2017 as compared to 2016:

United States of America

$79,804,287

$182,673,868

$262,478,155

United Kingdom

$72,559,367

$142,847,390

$215,406,756

-

$213,528,279

$213,528,279

Sweden

$70,525,392

$98,610,429

$169,135,821

Norway

$64,241,114

$84,532,740

$148,773,855

Ukraine

-

$140,234,077

$140,234,077

$56,660,040

$57,964,907

$114,624,947

$27,252,612

$59,936,208

$87,188,820

$5,903,188

$76,203,185

$82,106,372

$29,692,471

$47,759,684

$77,452,155

-

$67,890,514

$67,890,514

•	

Regular resources decreased to $0.612 billion from $0.618 billion.

•	

Earmarked resources, excluding reimbursable support services, increased to $4.22 billion from

Argentina

$4.16 billion. This includes contributions from programme country governments to projects in their
own countries (government cost sharing), which grew to $1 billion from $892 million.

Switzerland

Contributions by Funding Channel in 2017

$93M

$65M

Denmark

$341M

Italy

Funds earmarked to programmes and projects

Netherlands

$612M

Government cost sharing

Colombia

Vertical funds (e.g. Global Environment Facility)

$1,940M

Regular resources

Canada

$30,581,040

$24,544,465

$55,125,504

UN pooled funding (e.g. Peacebuilding Fund)

Senegal

-

$53,179,990

$53,179,990

$8,500,000

$27,013,123

$35,513,123

Panama

-

$34,743,855

$34,743,855

Paraguay

-

$32,220,650

$32,220,650

Saudi Arabia

$2,000,000

$29,431,058

$31,431,058

China

$3,800,000

$27,078,549

$30,878,549

$9,684,170

$19,518,521

$29,202,691

Dominican Republic

-

$28,819,499

$28,819,499

Togo

-

$27,750,864

$27,750,864

Egypt

-

$27,397,796

$27,397,796

$1,100,000

$25,908,371

$27,008,371

-

$22,148,912

$22,148,912

Turkey

$3,000,000

$19,006,363

$22,006,363

France

$9,836,759

$9,892,410

$19,729,169

Uruguay

-

$19,515,001

$19,515,001

Guatemala

-

$18,655,108

$18,655,108

Reimbursable support services to other UN entities

$858M

Republic of Korea

Thematic funds

$1,006M

Thematic Funding Windows

Australia

In 2016, UNDP launched a number of Thematic Funding Windows. Through these Funding Windows,

$25M

2017
2016

contributors can invest in a particular thematic
area while allowing UNDP to allocate the funds to

$20M

the activities and locations where they are needed the most. The Funding Windows also make for

Russian Federation

$15M

Brazil

lower transaction costs on financial contributions
as compared to other earmarked modalities. Flexi-

$10M

bility and lower costs means better results.
$5M

Total contributions of $99 million have been
received through the Thematic Funding Windows
since their launch.

30

Regular

Sustainable Governance for
Development Peacebuilding
and Poverty and Inclusive
Eradication
Societies

Climate Change
and Disaster Risk
Reduction

Emergency
Development
Response to Crisis
and Recovery

31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

UNDP’s reach
UNDP has 129 offices with programmes and operations in 170 countries

The boundaries and designations used on this map do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the United Nations.

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

NEW YORK HEADQUARTERS

CREDITS

One United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017
United States
www.undp.org

Photo page 4: Freya Morales/UNDP
Photo page 6-7: Vladimer Valishvili/UNDP
Photo page 10: Alpha Sesay/UNDP
Photo page 16: Skreidzeleu/Shutterstock
Photo page 18: Izzet Ugutmen/Shutterstock
Photo page 20: Mike Atwood/UNDP
Photo page 22: Damsea/Shutterstock
Photo page 24: Vaclav Volrab/Shutterstock
Photo page 26: Ronit Valfer
Photo page 28 (Ocean Conference): Enric Sala/Global Goals Campaign
Photo page 28 (The Global Goals World Cup): Freya Morales/UNDP
Photo page 28 (General Assembly): Freya Morales/UNDP
Photo page 29 (Pledging Conference for the Carribean): Freya Morales/UNDP
Photo page 29 (UN Climate Change Conference): UNFCC
Photo page 29 (Social Good Summit): Freya Morales/UNDP

REPRESENTATION OFFICES
Brussels Representation Office
14 rue Montoyer, B – 1000
Brussels
Belgium
Geneva Representation Office
11-13 Ch. des Anémones, 1219 Châtelaine
Geneva
Switzerland
Nordic Representation Office
UN City, Marmorvej 51,
2100 Copenhagen Ø
Denmark

Tokyo Representation Office
UN House 8F, 5-53-70 Jingumae,
Shibuya-ku
Tokyo 150-0001
Japan
Washington Representation Office
1775 K Street, NW, Suite 500
Washington, DC 20006
USA

REGIONAL HUBS
Addis Ababa Regional Service Centre
www.africa.undp.org

Istanbul Regional Hub
www.europe.undp.org

Amman Regional Hub
www.arabstates.undp.org

Panamá Regional Hub
www.latinamerica.undp.org

Bangkok Regional Hub
www.asia-pacific.undp.org

Pacific Office in Fiji
www.pacific.undp.org

Creative Director: Rodrigo Domingues
Writer-editor: Paul VanDeCarr
Co-writer: Pete Barry
Designer: Pragya Mahendru

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

United Nations Development Programme
One United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017
www.undp.org
UNDP 2018

www.facebook.com/undp
www.twitter.com/undp
www.youtube.com/undp

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

