United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction

Annual Report
2020

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

© 2021 UNITED NATIONS
For additional information, please contact:
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
9-11 Rue de Varembé, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 917 89 08
Note: The designations employed and the presentation of maps in this report do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Data disaggregated by region reflects the coverage of UNDRR’s Regional Offices.
Photographs: © Pixabay/Manuel Arias Fernandez
Pictures on page 10: © Shutterstock/Starpstock, © Unsplash/Josue Ladoo Pelegrin, © Shutterstock/Andrew Angelov,
© Unsplash/Atoms, © Shutterstock/Khosro, © Unsplash/Emin Baycan, © Shutterstock/Prostock-studio © Shutterstock/Yashvi
Jethi, © Unsplash/Engin Akyurt
Pictures on page 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21: © Unsplash/Griffin Wooldridge, © Pixabay/ Md. Shazzadul Alam, © Pixabay/ Juraj Varga

United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction

2020 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

The COVID-19 pandemic has reminded the world what the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction is all about: risk is systemic,
interconnected and cascading. Since the adoption of the Sendai
Framework in 2015, the world has seen an ever more urgent need to
better understand and manage the myriad of risks we face.

FOREWORD
In 2020, humanity truly learned what happens
when risk is ignored. COVID-19 changed our
lives, our expectations, relationships, work
prospects, livelihoods – in some instances,
irreversibly. But whilst COVID-19 may have
grabbed more headline space than any other
disaster, it is not the biggest threat facing
us. The climate emergency has continued
unabated: in 2020 global warming reached
the same all-time high as 2016. Climatefuelled disasters, earthquakes, fires, tsunamis
and other natural and manmade hazards hit
countries and communities already suffering
the effects of COVID-19.
Mami Mizutori
Special Representative
of the Secretary-General
for Disaster Risk Reduction

It is no surprise therefore that 2020 set new
records for the numbers of people requiring
humanitarian aid and support.
The cost-benefits of investing in prevention,
in disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation have never been clearer, or more
urgent.
Climate change is driving increased risk
across all countries, and disasters such as
the COVID 19 pandemic have shown how
unpredictable hazards can have devastating
cascading impacts on all sectors, with
long-lasting, debilitating socio-economic
consequences.
Out of crisis comes opportunity. UNDRR
had to pivot immediately. Our convening
power took a new and innovative turn, and
the virtual landscape – as constrained as it
sometimes feels – nonetheless enabled us to
reach many more people than before without
adding to the world’s travel-related carbon
emission burden. Going virtual improved our
reach and engagement across the board
with all our stakeholders. My engagements
doubled: I represented UNDRR on more than

4 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

100 occasions; as an organisation we trained
more than 6,000 individuals, connected peers
and stakeholders in a range of early lessons
learned series; released 85 knowledge
resources; social media reach topped more
than one million impressions a month; and
the PreventionWeb audience more than
doubled to 180,000 users each month.
Risk governance sits at the heart of
prevention, response and recovery. Having
national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies is a way in which countries and
communities can best prepare to frontload
their risk reduction efforts to break the vicious
cycle of disaster>respond>recover>repeat.
I take heart that in a year when UNDRR
campaigned relentlessly on the need to
strengthen disaster risk governance, there are
now 101 Member States reporting that have
national strategies for disaster risk reduction
aligned to a greater or lesser degree with the
Sendai Framework. Deepening our support to
Member States to respond and recover from
COVID-19, we published guidance to help
countries incorporate biological hazards into
their disaster risk reduction strategies.
Local level disaster risk reduction strategies
also took on new importance, recognising
that cities were at the forefront of dealing
with COVID-19. We launched the new Making
Cities Resilient 2030 initiative (MCR2030),
which, through the provision of technical
expertise, linking cities together to learn from
peers will help cities move along a resilience
continuum, and support the development and
uptake of local strategies for disaster risk
reduction. The proportion of countries that
have these in place remains low across all
regions.

The experience of the last year has highlighted
the importance of a human rights-based
approach to disaster risk reduction in a vivid
way. The Sendai Framework emphasizes the
importance of an inclusive, all-of-society focus to
managing disaster risk.
UNDRR has long recognized that nothing exposes
discrimination like a disaster. It is often very
clear from disaggregated data that gender, age,
disability and ethnicity play a significant role in
who lives or dies, or who is disproportionately
affected in a disaster event.
In the last year, the pandemic has starkly revealed
these inequalities. Those living in extreme poverty
and hunger have increased in number and their
chances of receiving the vaccine have receded
to a distant time horizon as wealthy countries
corner the market for available vaccines.

I would like to close by extending my heartfelt
thanks to our donor community for their
steadfast support in difficult circumstances. We
also owe a debt of gratitude to our many partners
and collaborators in enterprises such as ARISE,
MCR2030 and the development of the Words into
Action series.
Last but by no means least, I take enormous
pride in the motivation and dedication of our
staff around the world who have overcome the
constraints and challenges of remote working to
deliver to a high standard as demonstrated by the
results and achievements outlined in this Annual
Report.

The UN Secretary-General and others have
cautioned against the lack of a coherent multilateral approach to global problems and the
triumph of narrow national interests over the
collective good of humanity.
It is important therefore that we see progress
in the coming year on another key target of the
Sendai Framework, Target (f), which spells out
the need to substantially enhance international
cooperation to developing countries so they can
reduce their dependence on humanitarian aid,
strengthen their risk governance and improve
their capacity for early warning and early action.
I look forward to the opportunity to engage even
more closely with the disaster risk reduction
community as we convene a new series of
Regional Platforms around the globe, which will
provide important feedback on progress to date
in implementing the Sendai Framework.

 |   5

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

CONTENTS

8

22

Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction
2015–2030

Strategic Objective 1:
Strengthen global
monitoring, analysis and
coordination of Sendai
Framework implementation

10

UNDRR Strategic
Framework

12

© Unsplash/Jaume Galofré

Executive summary

16

Covid-19 response and
recovery

6 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

32

Strategic Objective 2:
Support to regional and
national Sendai Framework
implementation

50

Strategic Objective 3:
Catalyse action through
countries and partners
for Sendai Framework
implementation

66

Enabler 1:
Enhancing visibility of
Disaster Risk Reduction
through global advocacy

72

Enabler 2:
Strengthened
organizational performance

78

Donor overview

 |   7

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2015–2030

Priorities for action

Guiding principles

There is a need for focused action within and across
sectors by States at local, national, regional and
global levels in the following four priority areas.

•	

Primary responsibility of States to prevent
and reduce disaster risk, including through
cooperation.

PRIORITY 1

•	

Shared responsibility between central Government
and national authorities, sectors and stakeholders
as appropriate to national circumstances.

•	

Protection of persons and their assets while
promoting and protecting all human rights
including the right to development.

•	

Engagement from all of society.

•	

Full engagement of all State institutions of an
executive and legislative nature at national and
local levels.

•	

Empowerment of local authorities and
communities through resources, incentives and
decision-making responsibilities as appropriate.

•	

Decision-making to be inclusive and risk-informed
while using a multi-hazard approach.

•	

Coherence of disaster risk reduction and
sustainable development policies, plans, practices
and mechanisms, across different sectors.

•	

Accounting of local and specific characteristics
of disaster risks when determining measures to
reduce risk.

•	

Addressing underlying risk factors costeffectively through investment versus relying
primarly on post-disaster response and recovery.

•	

«Build Back Better» for preventing the creation of,
and reducing existing, disaster risk.

•	

The quality of global partnership and international
cooperation to be effective, meaningful and
strong.

•	

Support from developed countries and partners to
developing countries to be tailored according to
needs and priorities as identified by them.

Understanding disaster risk
Disaster risk management needs to be based on an
understanding of disaster risk in all its dimensions
of vulnerability, capacity, exposure of persons and
assets, hazard characteristics and the environment.

PRIORITY 2

Expected outcome

Targets

The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses
in lives, livelihoods and health and in the economic,
physical, social, cultural and environmental assets of
persons, businesses, communities and countries.

a.	 Substantially reduce global disaster mortality by
2030, aiming to lower the average per 100,000
global mortality rate in the decade 2020–2030
compared to the period 2005–2015.

Goal
Prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk
through the implementation of integrated and
inclusive economic, structural, legal, social, health,
cultural, educational, environmental, technological,
political and institutional measures that prevent and
reduce hazard exposure and vulnerability to disaster,
increase preparedness for response and recovery,
and thus strengthen resilience.

b.	 Substantially reduce the number of affected
people globally by 2030, aiming to lower the
average global figure per 100,000 n the decade
2020–2030 compared to the period 2005–2015.
c.	 Reduce direct disaster economic loss in relation
to global gross domestic product (GDP) by 2030.
d.	 Substantially reduce disaster damage to critical
infrastructure and disruption of basic services,
among them health and educational facilities,
including through developing their resilience by
2030.
e.	 Substantially increase the number of countries
with national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies by 2020.

© Unsplash/Peter Nguyen

Scope and purpose
The present Framework will apply to the risk of
small-scale and large-scale, frequent and infrequent,
sudden and slow-onset disasters, caused by
natural or man-made hazards, as well as related
environmental, technological and biological
hazards and risks. It aims to guide the multi-hazard
management of disaster risk in development at all
levels as well as within and across all sectors.

8 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

f.	

Substantially enhance international cooperation
to developing countries through adequate and
sustainable support to complement their national
actions for implementation of the present
Framework by 2030.

g.	 Substantially increase the availability of and
access to multi-hazard early warning systems
and disaster risk information and assessments to
people by 2030.

Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage
disaster risk
Disaster risk governance at the national, regional
and global levels is vital to the management of
disaster risk reduction in all sectors and ensuring the
coherence of national and local frameworks of laws,
regulations and public policies that, by defining roles
and responsibilities, guide, encourage and incentivize
the public and private sectors to take action and
address disaster risk.

PRIORITY 3

Investing in disaster risk reduction for resilience
Public and private investment in disaster risk
prevention and reduction through structural and
non-structural measures are essential to enhance
the economic, social, health and cultural resilience
of persons, communities, countries and their assets,
as well as the environment. These can be drivers of
innovation, growth and job creation. Such measures
are cost-effective and instrumental to save lives,
prevent and reduce losses and ensure effective
recovery and rehabilitation.

PRIORITY 4

Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective
response, and to «Build Back Better» in recovery,
rehabilitation and reconstruction
Experience indicates that disaster preparedness
needs to be strengthened for more effective response
and ensure capacities are in place for effective
recovery. Disasters have also demonstrated that the
recovery, rehabilitation and reconstruction phase,
which needs to be prepared ahead of the disaster,
is an opportunity to «Build Back Better» through
integrating disaster risk reduction measures. Women
and persons with disabilities should publicly lead and
promote gender- equitable and universally accessible
approaches during the response and reconstruction
phases.

 |   9

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

UNDRR Strategic Framework

Strategic
Objectives

Vision

Results

Mandate

Overarching
objective

The substantial reduction
of disaster risk and losses
for a sustainable future

1

2

3

1.1

2.1

3.1

1.2

2.2

3.2

1.3

2.3

3.3

1

2

Strengthen global
monitoring, analysis and
coordination of Sendai
Framework implementation

Global Progress of the Sendai
Framework and related
SDG targets assessed and
monitored and reported
annually

Focal point of the United
Nations system for disaster
risk reduction and the
custodian of the Sendai
Framework, supporting
countries and societies
in its implementation,
monitoring and review of
progress

Global risk data, analysis and
policy advice generated

The prevention of
new and reduction of
existing disaster risk and
strengthening resilience
through successful multihazard disaster risk
management

Global coordination and
review mechanisms of the
Sendai Framework are
in place

Enablers

Enhancing visibility of
disaster risk reduction
through global advocacy

10 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Support to regional and
national Sendai Framework
implementation

National and local disaster risk
reduction strategies and plans
are developed and implemented
in line with Sendai Framework
in coherence with climate
action and the Sustainable
Development Goal

Strengthened capacity of
counterparts, UN Country
Teams and partners for
leadership in disaster risk
reduction

Regional and national
coordination mechanisms
mobilized to accelerate Sendai
Framework implementation

Catalyse action through
countries and partners
for Sendai Framework
implementation

Policy coherence, in
line with the Sendai
Framework, fostered across
intergovernmental decisions
related to climate action and
sustainable development

Strengthened coordination
and leadership provided
to all UN system partners
at global level towards the
implementation of the
Sendai Framework

Implementation of the
Sendai Framework
and coherence across
Agenda 2030 facilitated
through the promotion and
implementation of an all-ofsociety approach

Strengthened
organizational performance

 | 11

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

“The COVID-19 pandemic has brought renewed attention to the importance of
strengthening disaster risk reduction.”

Africa. This led to the publication of a document on the
multiple benefits of disaster risk reduction investment
as applied in three African countries and was used in
the development of the executive summary of the Africa
Regional Assessment Report. In the Asia and the Pacific
region, 12 new national Disaster Risk Management Status
Reports were launched. Regional Assessment Reports
(RAR) are ongoing in the Arab States and AmericasCaribbean Regions and the executive summary of the
Africa RAR was released. In Europe, as coordinator of the
European Science and Technological Advisory Group
(E-STAG), UNDRR developed policy guidance papers for
regional and national action on evolving wildfire risk that
led to national legislative change.

United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
speaking on the International Day for Disaster Risk Reduction, 13 October 2020

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Nobody is immune from the COVID-19 pandemic.
It has changed many things: how we live, how
we work, how we relate to one another, and
how we understand cause and effect. While the
global workforce was impacted, UNDRR was
no exception. Suddenly, COVID-19 thrust risk
exposure and vulnerability to the forefront of
individual, community and national experience.
The crisis also delivered ample opportunities
for the application of UNDRR expertise. Almost
overnight, demand escalated for risk information
and guidance on how to incorporate biological
hazards into country risk profiles and risk
reduction strategies on: how to strengthen the
resilience of the health sector; how to enhance
disaster risk governance; and on how to combat
disinformation.
In addition to and as part of UNDRR’s mandated
work supporting Member States to implement
the Sendai Framework, the organisation had to
quickly rethink and pivot to respond to the sharp
rise in urgent demands from Member States for
support on COVID-19. As a multi-hazard systemic
approach to risk underpins the entire UNDRR
Work Programme 2020-21, UNDRR was able to
continue implementing the Work Programme
with only slight modifications to the mode of its
delivery in most regions. This included online
rather than in-person training and an enhanced
focus on biological hazards in general and
COVID-19 in particular.
This 2020 Annual Report outlines how UNDRR’s
work contributed to reducing disaster risk
and building resilience, while adapting to the
changed needs and new obstacles posed by
the COVID-19 pandemic. It is structured along
the three Strategic Objectives and two Enablers
of its Work Programme and outlines UNDRR’s
efforts at global, regional, national and local
levels, in coordination with and in support of a
wide variety of stakeholders, to implement the
Sendai Framework. This is in the context of an
12 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

SUPPORT TO REGIONAL AND NATIONAL SENDAI
FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION

increasingly complex and interconnected risklandscape exacerbated by risk drivers, including
the increase in poverty, inequality, climate
change, conflict, displacement, ecosystem
degradation, biodiversity loss and the ongoing
pandemic.

The ongoing pandemic has clearly demonstrated the
critical role of risk governance in reducing risk and
saving lives and livelihoods. Throughout the year UNDRR
campaigned relentlessly on the need to strengthen risk
governance, in keeping with the early lessons captured in
COVID-19 response and in support of 2020 Target (e) of the
Sendai Framework. Through targeted support, normative
guidance, advocacy, and partnership, 101 Member
States reported having national disaster risk reduction
strategies aligned with the Sendai Framework.

STRENGTHEN GLOBAL MONITORING,
ANALYSIS AND COORDINATION
OF SENDAI FRAMEWORK
IMPLEMENTATION
The pandemic illustrates how the risk landscape
can rapidly change, and the systemic nature of
risk. The crisis laid bare how marginalization and
inequality intersect with risk: the vulnerable are
those most affected.

UNDRR invested heavily in supporting, gathering and using
disaster loss data in all regions and proposed solutions
for reporting disaggregated data by hazard, location,
sex, age, income and disability. By December 2020, there
were 120 countries and territories using the UNDRR
managed DesInventar disaster loss databases. UNDRR
also undertook a major Discovery and Needs Analysis to
guide the development of a new national disaster loss data
management system to better manage the convergence
of Sendai Framework and Sustainable Development Goal
(SDG) indicators, to inform risk policy development and
investment for strengthened risk governance and resilient
economies, and to reduce duplication.

To strengthen Sendai Framework monitoring,
UNDRR upgraded the functionality of its online
monitoring system. By the end of 2020, 143
Member and Observer States were reporting
through the Sendai Framework Monitoring
system, augmented by a variety of online
trainings. UNDRR compiled, analysed and
submitted this dataset to UNDESA to inform a
variety of UN processes and reports.

At the local level, building on the success of UNDRR’s
Making Cities Resilient Campaign (4,000+ cities enrolled
between 2010 and 2020), UNDRR launched the Making
Cities Resilient 2030 initiative to continue supporting
understanding and use of risk information at the local level,
including in the development and implementation of local
disaster risk reduction strategies.

UNDRR analysis of disaster risk trends and
challenges continued through the production of
nine pandemic-focused issue briefs, the Global
Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF) and in
the processes to develop such products as the
Global and Regional Assessment Reports, a
Special Report on Drought, and policy guidance
for developing national risk profiles.
At the regional level, the guidance on risk profiles
was used to upgrade 16 National Risk Profiles
around floods and droughts and to develop 16
Disaster Risk-Sensitive Budget Reviews in

Notably, UNDRR led the development, dissemination
and training of UN Resident Coordinators (RCs) and UN
Country Teams (UNCTs) on a Guidance Note on Integrating
Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change Adaptation
in the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation
Framework. This was coupled with ensuring disaster risk
reduction is prioritized in Issue-Based Coalitions (IBCs) and
providing technical support in developing risk-informed
Common Country Analysis and Cooperation Frameworks.
As a result, the 24 new Cooperation Frameworks signed in
2020 have disaster risk reduction and resilience reflected
in the Results Framework.
UNDRR Regional Offices worked closely with regional
intergovernmental organizations and Regional
Economic Communities (RECs) in implementing the
Sendai Framework at regional and national levels.
Such cooperation focused heavily on providing
targeted technical support to Governments in the
development and implementation of disaster risk
reduction strategies; disaster loss data gathering and
use; undertaking institutional mappings of disaster risk
reduction integration in policy and legislation; and in
delivering capacity building and trainings on enhancing
Sendai Framework implementation in coherence with
other development agendas. UNDRR’s technical and
coordination support to the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) contributed to the new Work Programme
2021-2025 of the ASEAN Agreement on Disaster
Management and Emergency Response (AADMER), a
legally binding policy on disaster risk management.
Across all five regions, UNDRR facilitated a variety of efforts
to strengthen regional and national Sendai Framework
implementation, such as the endorsement of the Africa
Roadmap for Improving the Availability, Access, and Use
of Disaster Risk Information for Early Warning and Early
Action, Including in the Context of Transboundary Risk
Management, by the African Union Commission (AUC),
the African Centre of Meteorological Application for
Development (ACMAD), Intergovernmental Authority on
Development (IGAD) and the four target countries1.
The pandemic prevented planned Regional Platforms for
Disaster Risk Reduction from taking place in 2020, but key
consultations advanced regional coordination, including the
Asia and the Pacific Partnership for Disaster Risk Reduction
(APP-DRR) Forum, the Fifth Arab Partnership Meeting for
Disaster Risk Reduction, the Third Regional Forum of Heads
of National Disaster Management Agencies in Central Asia,
and the African Working Group on DRR.

UNDRR further leveraged UN development system reforms
to strengthen national and regional level mainstreaming of
multi-hazard disaster risk reduction in UN interventions.
1	

The main focus of the Roadmap is on the review of the legal and institutional framework at the continental level and the establishment of a 24/7
situation rooms at the AUC linked to the further capacitated centers in Angola, Ethiopia, Malawi, UR Tanzania and Zambia, as well as, ACMAD and
IGAD

 | 13

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

CATALYSE ACTION THROUGH MEMBER
STATES AND PARTNERS

2020 Highlights

6,986
PARTICIPANTS FROM 165 COUNTRIES
AND TERRITORIES REACHED THROUGH
ONLINE AND BLENDED TRAINING
PROGRAMMES

143
MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
REPORTED THROUGH THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK MONITORING SYSTEM

101
MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES
REPORTED THE EXISTENCE OF
NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
STRATEGIES IN LINE WITH SENDAI
FRAMEWORK

120
COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES USED
THE UNDRR MANAGED DESINVENTAR
DISASTER LOSS DATABASE SYSTEM

600
NEW MEMBERS JOINED THE UNDRR
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
MECHANISM

14 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

To mainstream disaster risk reduction and catalyse action
in the UN, UNDRR enhanced cooperation with the UN
Sustainable Development Group by leading and convening
the UN Senior Leadership Group on DRR for Resilience. With
the highest turnout of the group’s existence in 2020, the 42
UN entities present agreed, “to ensure a UN system approach
to reducing risks and building resilience to a broad scope of
hazards”.
COVID-19 reinforced the importance of disaster risk
reduction and prevention, and UNDRR supported efforts to
make sure this message was heard at the intergovernmental
stage. Member States adopted at least 20 resolutions
at the General Assembly (GA) and Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC), which integrate disaster risk reduction
and promote policy coherence with the Sendai Framework
in COVID-19 recovery and the implementation of the SDGs.
The inclusion of disaster risk reduction in the Quadrennial
Comprehensive Policy Review of UN system operational
activities (QCPR) Resolution also provides a solid basis to
mainstream disaster risk reduction action in support of the
SDGs within the UN system.
UNDRR improved support provided to Member States to
ensure coherence in the implementation of internationally
agreed agendas through signing Memorandums of
Understanding with UNDP and UNFCCC to strengthen
coordination at global and national levels. In coordination
with UNDP and UNFCCC, 16 countries received technical
support, through policy landscape maps and targeted
recommendations on building coherence in national
strategies.
In contribution to the humanitarian-development nexus,
UNDRR undertook global and regional consultations with
a wide range of humanitarian and development partners,
to develop a concrete set of recommendations and the
Checklist on Scaling up DRR in Humanitarian Action. It
identifies entry points for disaster risk reduction in the steps
of the Humanitarian Programme Cycle (HPC). As a result
of pilot testing of the Checklist with OCHA, the Pakistan
UNCT is now considering vulnerabilities and risks within
humanitarian response planning to address root causes of
humanitarian needs.
Multi-stakeholder engagement increased. The UNDRR
Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism (SEM) grew to more
than 600 members and contributed to many different
UNDRR-led efforts, including an extensive global survey
examining the challenges that Small-Medium Enterprises
(SME) face in building resilience. UNDRR worked with
youth as agents for change and launched with UNICEF the
Words into Action Guide on Engaging Children and Youth in
Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Building.

UNDRR continues to work closely with partners to support
gender-responsive disaster risk reduction, including
through the collection, reporting and use of disaggregated
data, backed by the SRSG’s role as an International
Gender Champion. On the International Day for Disaster
Risk Reduction on 13 October 2020, UNDRR launched the
Women’s International Network for Disaster Risk Reduction
(WIN DRR) in Asia and the Pacific to further promote
women’s leadership in disaster risk reduction.
Work undertaken with the International Science Council
(ISC), with the engagement of more than 800 partners
from the UN, science institutes, including national scientific
advisors and the research funding community, led to the
ground-breaking Sendai Hazard Definition and Classification
Review Technical Report, which contains 302 Hazard
Information Profiles and is a key mechanism for building
common definitions for developing comparable datasets for
monitoring and review.
Both externally and internally UNDRR worked closely with
persons with disabilities, including the World Institute
for Disability to deliver an all-staff training as part of the
UN Disability Inclusive Strategy and produced materials
including, People with Disabilities in the Face of COVID-19,
and an addendum to the UNDRR local level assessment tool,
the UNDRR Disaster Resilience Scorecard, for persons living
with disabilities.

ENHANCED KNOWLDEGE, MANAGEMENT,
COMMUNICATION AND GLOBAL ADVOCACY
The demand and appetite for UNDRR’s engagement,
platforms, channels and messages greatly increased in
2020 as the COVID-19 disaster unfolded. UNDRR’s visibility
improved with engagements by Special Representative of
the UN Secretary-General (SRSG) Mami Mizutori doubling
from the year before to more than 100 events, speeches,
and op-eds. UNDRR social media channels (Twitter and
Facebook) reached monthly engagement levels of more
than one million impressions, up from average monthly
engagements in 2019 of approximately 70,000-250,000. In
the space of a year UNDRR’s LinkedIn channel grew from
2,720 followers to 110,000, while PreventionWeb more
than doubled its subscriber base from 80,000 to 180,000
and is now promoted by Google as the place to go to find
information on disaster risk reduction.

COVID-19 exposed the need for a systemic approach
to disaster risk reduction, and the importance of
mainstreaming health-related risks in national disaster
risk reduction strategies. UNDRR worked with UN partners,
in particular the WHO, to develop guidance, including a
supplement on biological hazards for the Words into Action
Guidelines on national disaster risk reduction strategies.

STRENGTHENED ORGANIZATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
2020 challenged UNDRR to adapt to new working realities.
A dedicated and resilient team seized the opportunity to
increase staff development and learning, enhance the use
of technology, institute process improvements, and monitor
implementation.
Key efforts included the design and delivery of a mandatory,
organisation wide training on project management training
and on the use of a variety of new online platforms.
Enhancements to the global enterprise resource planning
system in the area of voluntary funds management allowed
new data mining and timely analysis of key performance
indicators. Real time information across multiple devices
brought a novel approach to monitoring programme
implementation and supported faster decision-making
process.
Recognizing the critical role of UNDRR and disaster risk
reduction in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, donors’
generous voluntary contributions amounted to 98% of
UNDRR’s USD 48.74 million Work Programme in 2020. This
included an increase of USD 1.45 million due to the urgent
needs to address COVID-19. In total, USD 47.7 million was
received in 2020. Donors also allowed for more flexible use
of resources, which was a critical enabler in UNDRR’s agile
response to COVID-19.

UNDRR Campaigns, notably, #PreventionSavesLives,
#NoNaturalDisasters, and #ItsAllAboutGovernance reached
a potential audience of millions and built momentum
throughout the year to the International Day for Disaster
Risk Reduction on October 13 #DRRday, and World Tsunami
Awareness Day #TsunamiDay on November 5. Both days
mobilized a wide variety of stakeholders around the world
and had the direct backing of the UN Secretary-General who
delivered strong messages to mark both days.

 | 15

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

COVID–19

COVID-19 RESPONSE AND RECOVERY
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UN’S PANDEMIC RESPONSE
As travel and mobility were restricted around
the world, UNDRR quickly adjusted, ensuring
the organisation was fit for purpose to continue
working virtually. UNDRR disseminated its
COVID-19 Engagement Strategy, which set
out four interconnected strands of work on
generating evidence and learning, integrating
biological hazards, leveraging partnerships and
disseminating guidance and information2.
The Engagement Strategy included working
closely with the World Health Organization
(WHO) to synchronise the health and disaster risk
management sectors. It encouraged swift national
implementation of the Bangkok Principles for
the Implementation of the Health Aspects of the
Sendai Framework (Bangkok Principles) and the
adaptation of UN Joint Country Action Plans for
pandemic response and recovery.

“UNDRR was one of the
first entities to initiate and
master early lessons learned
and conversations from
practitioners and partners in
the COVID-19 response at
the regional level. These fora
operated as effective fastmoving think tanks in real
time.”

2

Catherine Haswell
UN Resident Coordinator in the Maldives
3

16 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

INTEGRATING HEALTH AND DISASTER RISK
REDUCTION

To support UN Country Teams (UNCTs), UNDRR
led the development of the technical guidance
note, Integrating Disaster Risk Reduction and
Climate Change Adaptation in the UN Sustainable
Development Cooperation Framework, with an
addendum devoted to biological hazards3.

“With the support of
UNDRR, WHO has published
a comprehensive Health
Emergency and Disaster Risk
Management Framework4,
to support all countries to
reduce and manage public
health emergency risks,
including disease outbreaks.”

In July 2020, 42 United Nations entities endorsed
three recommendations to ensure risk-informed
COVID-19 recovery in the implementation of the
UN Plan of Action on DRR for Resilience at the
fifth annual meeting of the UN Senior Leadership
Group on Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience,
chaired by SRSG Mizutori.
UNDRR Regional Offices joined regional IBCs,
particularly those focusing on resilience. In Asia
Pacific, UNDRR led the regional IBC on Building
Resilience, producing a COVID-19 Action Plan for
a multi-sectoral response and a whole-of-society
recovery, using many examples from the region
for post-disaster recovery plans. Similarly, in
the Americas and the Caribbean, UNDRR coleads together with UN Environment the IBC on
Climate Change and Resilience, which developed
a COVID-19 Brief and Workplan to focus on
response and recovery, integrating a systemic
approach to understanding risk and calling for a
strengthened multi-sectorial risk governance.

1) Evidence and learning on COVID-19 prevention, risk reduction and
risk management are generated and disseminated for improved policy
and practice (UNDRR Strategic Objective 1); 2) Biological hazards
(pandemics) are integrated in disaster risk reduction and development
planning and programming, including in the development of national
and local DRR strategies (UNDRR Strategic Objective 2); 3) UNDRR
partnerships are leveraged and key stakeholders are supported to
address the impacts of COVID-19 and to support countries to recover
better with a focus on the socio-economic impact on vulnerable
groups (UNDRR Strategic Objective 3); 4) Information and advice are
disseminated to key audiences to prompt action that will prevent the
spread of COVID-19, mitigate its socio-economic impacts and support
countries to recover better. (UNDRR Enabler 1).
UNDRR, Integrating Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change
Adaptation in the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework
(Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/
integrating-disaster-risk-reduction-and-climate-change-adaptation-unsustainable

Tedros Adhanom
Ghebreyesus
Director-General, World Health Organization,
speaking at a webinar co-organized by
UNDRR, WHO and IPU in April 2020

4	
5	

The Bangkok Principles emphasize the shared need for
risk assessment, surveillance and early warning systems,
resilient health infrastructure, and coordinated health crisis
incident management.
In 2020, UNDRR supported Member States to implement the
Principles through review of national and regional disaster
risk reduction strategies and governance mechanisms
to assess the level of integration of biological hazards.
To support these efforts, UNDRR developed the guide,
Addressing and Reducing Risks from Disease Outbreaks: A
Supplemental Guide in Developing and/or Updating National
DRR Strategies, with the WHO.
UNDRR also developed a new stress test tool, with
collaboration from Finland and the European Centre of
Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats, to help countries
understand and improve their ability to reduce risk, including
to health systems, against complex and cascading disaster
scenarios.
A Review of COVID-19 Disaster Risk Governance in Asia
and the Pacific: Towards Multi-Hazard and Multi-Sectoral
Disaster Risk Reduction5 was published based on a
review of policy documents in 28 countries, providing
recommendations on how disaster risk governance can be
strengthened in context of the pandemic.

WHO, Health Emergency and Disaster Risk Management Framework Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/publications/view/68110
UNDRR, Review of COVID-19 Disaster Risk Governance in Asia-Pacific: Towards Multi-Hazard and Multi-Sectoral Disaster Risk Reduction (Geneva,
UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/review-covid-19-disaster-risk-governance-asia-pacific-towards-multi-hazard-and-multi

 | 17

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

COVID–19

BUILDING CAPACITY

“ We are very encouraged
and building confidence from
these strategies and lessons.
This pandemic has exposed
to us a very important
issue, with the urban poor...
We didn’t realize just how
vulnerable we could get in the
face of such a crisis.”
Doris Ombara
City Manager of Kisumu, Kenya,
Making Cities Resilient Campaign

REDUCING VULNERABILITY

UNDRR quickly recognised Member States’ need to compare
and learn from other countries’ experiences with COVID-19.
Capacity development needs increased, in particular for
support to Member States and other stakeholders to
develop cross-sectoral responses. UNDRR’s virtual and
online work grew exponentially, reaching 25,000 people with
100 training events by December 2020. As people searched
for guidance on COVID-19, UNDRR provided a virtual
platform to reflect on and share emerging lessons learned in
real time.

COVID-19 demonstrated that national preparedness and
response systems are often insufficiently developed and
require greater flexibility, especially regarding those most at
risk. UNDRR webinars and guidance focused on most at-risk
communities across the globe and produced key findings
and policy recommendations on effective social protection
to reduce vulnerability, support recovery, and reach the ‘last
mile’. These included the following:
•	

The first such webinar held in March in partnership with
WHO, shared practical response lessons and reached
1,000 participants from governments, intergovernmental
organisations, the United Nations system, civil society,
researchers, and media from more than 100 countries.
Webinar series topics included business continuity;
parliamentary action to reduce risks, increase resilience, and
strengthen emergency preparedness; building back better;
and the role of emerging technologies related to blockchain,
ICT and data. Early lessons were disseminated through
UNDRR’s global network of more than 3,000 policymakers
and practitioners, including Sendai Framework focal points,
ministries, national sectoral counterparts and members
of national platforms for disaster risk reduction, local
authorities, Making Cities Resilient Campaign partners,
academia, and the private sector.

•	

UNDRR’s advocacy, practice and policy discussions, and
capacity-building and knowledge products that support
effective risk information efforts, reached a diverse
global audience including policy makers, grassroots
practitioners and communications professionals. Soon
after the outbreak, UNDRR immediately re-focused content
across our online channels to amplify WHO health-related
messaging. A webinar on Risk communication and
countering the ‘Infodemic’ was organized in partnership
with the WHO, attended by 888 participants, and an issue
brief was released on the same topic6.

Together with the Solutions Journalism Network, UNDRR
hosted a series of ‘how to talk about risk’ information
sessions, and promoted key messages through digital
content, social media assets, news stories & op-eds. More
than 900 messages were posted across Twitter, Facebook
and LinkedIn and the #PreventionSavesLives campaign,
gaining more than five million impressions. Between March
and December 2020, the organisation’s LinkedIn followers
grew from 2,720 to 110,000. In addition, UNDRR joined the
UN’s #Verified Campaign to fight misinformation.
In July, UNDRR partnered with the WHO and the Inter
Parliamentary Union (IPU) to catalyse parliamentary action
to reduce risk, strengthen emergency preparedness and
increase resilience. UNDRR’s web dialogue drew more than
700 participants from more than 85 countries, who were
encouraged to promote national risk-informed legislation.

UNDRR worked with the International Recovery Platform
(IRP) to support COVID-19 recovery. The eight guiding
principles and nine recovery actions in A COVID-19
Recovery Brief guided governments and stakeholders
to plan for recovery, including assessing the wider
socioeconomic impacts of the crisis; societal recovery;
comprehensive economic recovery; livelihoods and psychosocial recovery and the expanded use of e-governance and
emerging technologies. A toolkit compendium provides
additional support for countries and communities to build
back better.

7	
8	
9	
10	
11	
12	

6	

UNDRR, UNDRR Asia-Pacific COVID-19 Brief: Risk communication and countering the ‘Infodemic’ (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.
undrr.org/publication/undrr-asia-pacific-covid-19-brief-risk-communication-and-countering-infodemic

18 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

With Help Age International and UN Women, Leave No
One Behind in COVID-19 Prevention, Response and Recovery8 outlines key response challenges and ten policy
recommendations, such as targeted economic stimulus
and recovery programmes for vulnerable groups.

Reducing Vulnerability Amongst Displaced Populations
and Migrants9 built on a webinar with the International
Council of Voluntary Agencies (ICVA) and the
International Organization for Migration (IOM)
included lessons from Bangladesh’s refugee camps.

•	

With ONG Inclusiva and the Latin America and the
Caribbean Network for Disability Inclusive Disaster
Risk Management, the publication People with
Disabilities in the Face of COVID-1910 recommended
disaggregated and geo-referenced data to fully
characterise at-risk sectors.

•	

Experience and Challenges in Fragile Contexts: Building
Resilience to Future Shocks,11 highlighted experience
in fragile contexts, including lessons learned from
previous crisis such as the 2016 Ebola outbreak in West
Africa, and the experience of addressing COVID-19 in
Liberia, Iraq and Mozambique.

STRENGTHENING PREPAREDNESS AND PURSUING A ‘GREEN’ RECOVERY

COUNTERING THE ‘INFODEMIC’
Coordinated, clear, and action-oriented messaging is
essential in halting the spread of the pandemic.

The brief Disaster Responsive Social Protection7 – with
the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the
UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (ESCAP) explores how countries can use social
protection systems to reduce vulnerability and boost
resilience.

•	

13	

Opportunities for Resilient Recovery12 includes lessons
from past disaster recovery efforts and an introduction
to the World Bank’s new employment recovery checklist,
restoring degraded ecosystems and reducing climate and
disaster risks. Recommendations for a Resilient COVID-19
Recovery13 in Europe focuses on the three pillars of the Next
Generation European Union instrument, underscoring green
and resilient disaster risk reduction in recovery planning;
investments in sustainable infrastructure; and data driven
investments based on risk and national policies.

UNDRR, Disaster Responsive Social Protection (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/undrr-asia-pacific-covid-19brief-disaster-responsive-social-protection
UNDRR, Leave No One Behind in COVID-19 Prevention, Response and Recovery (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/
publication/undrr-asia-pacific-covid-19-brief-leave-no-one-behind-covid-19-prevention-response-and
UNDRR, Reducing Vulnerability Amongst Displaced Populations and Migrants (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/
publication/undrr-asia-pacific-covid-19-brief-reducing-vulnerability-migrants-and-displaced
UNDRR, People with Disabilities in the Face of COVID-19 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/undrr-americascaribbean-covid-19-brief-people-disabilities-face-covid-19-americas-and
UNDRR, Experience and Challenges in Fragile Contexts: Building Resilience to Future Shocks” (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.
org/event/covid-19-experiences-and-challenges-fragile-contexts-building-resilience-future-shocks
UNDRR, Opportunities for Resilient Recovery (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/undrr-asia-pacific-covid-19-briefopportunities-resilient-recovery
UNDRR, Recommendations for a Resilient COVID-19 Recovery (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/green-andresilient-covid-19-recovery-eu-working-paper-recommendations

 | 19

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

COVID–19

ENSURING BUSINESS RESILIENCE
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) are the
least resilient sector of the economy yet represent about
90 per cent of businesses and more than 50 per cent of
employment worldwide, while contributing up to 40 per cent
of national income (GDP) in emerging economies.
To strengthen the private sector’s capacity to build-in
disaster resilience as part of their sustainable business
approach, UNDRR works at the national, regional and global
level through ARISE, the UNDRR Private Sector Alliance for
Disaster Resilient Societies, comprised of more than 370
private sector entities globally. UNDRR in partnership with
the ARISE networks, Asian Disaster Preparedness Center
(ADPC), UN partners and Resilience Innovation Knowledge
Academy (RIKA) developed:

•	

•	

•	

A review and guidance document on Reducing Risk
and Building Resilience of SMEs to Disasters14 and
factsheets including the impacts of COVID-19 on SMEs
globally.
A COVID-19 Small Business Continuity and Recovery
Planning Toolkit to support MSMEs to protect their
employees, customers and businesses15. Available in
11 languages, it was accessed more than 20,000 times
since its publication in May. UNDRR also launched an
online orientation course16 for the toolkit.
An online Quick Risk Estimation (QRE) tool for MSMEs,
available in multiple languages, to walk business
owners through a survey to estimate their level of risk,
including relating to COVID-19, as a first step to building
their resilience. 17

COVID-19’S IMPACT ON CITIES
Guided by the Bangkok Principles and the Health
Emergency and Disaster Risk Management Framework,
UNDRR improved the UNDRR Disaster Resilience Scorecard
for Cities with the development of an online addendum
to address biological hazards. An introductory webinar
drew more than 1,100 participants from 121 countries
and territories. It triggered requests for additional training,
which led to a new online resilience-training course, with
participants from 56 countries, and new requests for
customized trainings and new courses.

Bangkok Principles
The seven recommendations of the Bangkok Principles for The International
Conference on the Implementation of the Health Aspects of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 are as follows:
1.	 Promote systematic integration
of health into national and subnational disaster risk reduction
policies and plans and the inclusion
of emergency and disaster risk
management programmes in
national and sub-national health
strategies.
2.	 Enhance cooperation between
health authorities and other
relevant stakeholders to strengthen
country capacity for disaster
risk management for health, the
implementation of the International
Health Regulations (2005) and
building of resilient health systems.
3.	 Stimulate people-centered
public and private investment
in emergency and disaster risk
reduction, including in health
facilities and infrastructure.

4.	 Integrate disaster risk reduction
into health education and training
and strengthen capacity-building
of health workers in disaster risk
reduction.
5.	 Incorporate disaster-related
mortality, morbidity and disability
data into multi-hazards early
warning system, health core
indicators and national risk
assessments.
6.	 Advocate for, and support
cross-sectoral, transboundary
collaboration including information
sharing, and science and technology
for all hazards, including biological
hazards.
7.	 Promote coherence and further
development of local and national
policies and strategies, legal
frameworks, regulations, and
institutional arrangements.

14	 UNDRR, Reducing Risk and Building Resilience of SMEs to Disasters (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/
resilience-smes
15	 UNDRR, COVID-19 Small Business Continuity and Recovery Planning Toolkit (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/bcp-ap
16	 The COVID-19 Small Business Continuity and Recovery Planning Toolkit course can be accessed at https://courses.adpc.net/courses/coursev1:UNDRR+COVID19SBCR+2020/about
17	 The Quick Risk tool can be accessed at https://www.businessQRE.net/

20 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 21

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
1

© UN Photo/Logan Abassi

Strengthen global monitoring, analysis
and coordination of Sendai Framework
implementation

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1

1.1

GLOBAL PROGRESS OF THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK AND RELATED SDG TARGETS
ASSESSED, MONITORED AND REPORTED
ANNUALLY
To help Member States track both progress
against the Sendai Framework, and indicators
for Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 1, 11
and 13, UNDRR manages the Sendai Framework
Monitoring (SFM) online system. The functionality
of the SFM was upgraded in 2020 to boost the
quality of inputs, user experience and ease of
reporting.
In April, UNDRR supported Member States to
complete a first round of reporting on 2019 data,
emphasising Sendai Framework Targets (a) to
(e).18 UNDRR compiled, analysed and submitted
this dataset to UNDESA to inform a variety of UN
processes and reports, including through the HighLevel Political Forum, the Special Report of the
Secretary-General (SG) on SDG Implementation,
and the SG’s Report on Sendai Framework
implementation.
This was followed by the second milestone of
reporting in October, when Member States further
reported on all Sendai Framework Targets (a) to
(g). The analysis of the data submitted fed into
other UN reporting processes including the Followup and Implementation of the Vienna Programme
of Action for Landlocked Developing Countries
(LLDCs), the 2020 State of Climate Services
Report, the SG Report on Implementation of the
Programme of Action for LDCs and the Myanmar
LDC Graduation Assessment.

UNDRR also developed two key publications
UNDRR Status Report on Target E19 and Monitoring
the Implementation of Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030: A Snapshot
of Reporting for 2018,20 with detailed analyses
of reporting and progress towards the Sendai
Framework goal and targets. In addition, Member
States were helped in the use of the data collected
by the SFM to support climate change adaptation
(CCA) processes and other planning and research
requiring disaster damage and loss data.

Targeted support to Least Developed Countries (LDCs)
and Small Island Developing States (SIDS) led to first-time
reporting by four Caribbean countries. In Asia and the
Pacific, a national workshop for the Maldives and technical
support for Cambodia resulted in a substantial increase in

data collection and coordination, while in the Pacific, UNDRR
supported greater collaboration between national disaster
management offices and national statistical offices.
UNDRR produced a Regional Snapshot Report for Europe
and Central Asia that analysed 2018/19 data, provided
insights into national reporting practices, and reflected
on biological hazards reporting against each target, data
disaggregation, coherence with SDG reporting and disaster
displacement.22

MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES USING THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK MONITOR

*

By the end of 2020, 143 Member and Observer
States were reporting through the SFM system,
augmented by a variety of trainings including
UNDRR’s e-Learning course. India and China’s
enrolment in the SFM brought data from
approximately an additional 35% of the global
population.
Regional Offices worked to accelerate
disaggregated reporting. For example, a
workshop with Sendai Framework Focal Points in
the Arab States proposed solutions for reporting
data by hazard, location, sex, income and
disability. Countries using DesInventar disaster
loss databases were encouraged to extract the
disaggregated data to use in SFM reporting for
at least Targets (a) and (b). For instance, in the
Americas and the Caribbean, UNDRR supported
the design and operation of disaster related data
in Panama, Paraguay and Peru, and provided
training to 16 countries.21

18	 See page eight for an overview of the seven Sendai Framework Targets
19	 UNDRR, UNDRR Status Report on Target E (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/statusreport-target-e-implementation-2020
20	 UNDRR, Monitoring the Implementation of Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030: A Snapshot of Reporting
for 2018 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/monitoring-implementation-sendaiframework-disaster-risk-reduction-2015-2030-snapshot
21	 Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, Costa Rica, Dominica, Dominican Republic, Grenada, Jamaica, Mexico, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago

24 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

In Africa, UNDRR organized virtual meetings with the
Regional Economic Communities (RECs) and African
Union Commission (AUC) to take stock and discuss
overcoming SFM reporting challenges posed by COVID-19.
In Europe, UNDRR improved reporting by training National
Statistics Offices, the Regional Almaty Centre for
Emergency Situations and Disaster Risk Reduction, and
UN counterparts. Such efforts resulted in Turkmenistan and
Uzbekistan reporting for the first time.

143

Member and Observer
States using the Sendai
Framework Monitor
Africa: 26
Americas-Caribbean: 27
Arab States: 16
Asia-Pacific: 29
Europe: 45

1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States’ self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

22	 UNDRR, Regional Snapshot Report for Europe and Central Asia (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/sendaiframework-monitoring-europe-and-central-asia-regional-snapshot

 | 25

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1

1.2

“I would like to express
my appreciation for having
Ethiopia as part of the Africa
Road Map. It scaled up our
Early Warning Systems
capacity to have an evidencebased response. The Road
Map will create the power to
make informed decisions.
Ethiopia will strengthen its
DRM Policy anchored on
the paradigm shift from
managing crises to managing
risk. UNDRR has given us
the opportunity to identify all
DRM components backed by
robust and comprehensive
early warning systems. This
has enhanced our skills and
knowledge.”
Tadesse Bekele Fanta
Senior DRM Adviser, National Disaster Risk
Management Commission, Ethiopia

GLOBAL RISK DATA, ANALYSIS AND POLICY
ADVICE GENERATED
To facilitate evidence-based decision making
in reducing multi-hazard disaster risk, UNDRR
developed a business case and theory of change
for the Global Risk Assessment Framework
(GRAF) and policy guidance for developing
national risk profiles.23 Open calls for expressions
of interest to join the GRAF Expert and Working
Groups yielded hundreds of applicants. A
network of more than 350 risk practitioners was
established to help UNDRR in its work to better
understand the drivers of risk, to promote inclusive
approaches to managing risk and to increase
access to risk finance. This network is a resource
upon which UNDRR can build to provide advice
and use as a vehicle to accelerate learning and
information dissemination.24 A pilot programme to
develop and learn from methods of understanding
and managing the systemic nature of risk was
developed for Costa Rica, Eswatini and Pakistan.
The four key areas of focus for the upcoming
Global Assessment Report (GAR 2022), the UN
flagship report on the state of the world’s risk,
were defined:
1.	 Understanding the impact of disasters
(including events such as COVID-19 and the
most active cyclone season in recent history).
2.	 Strengthening understanding of risk (with a
focus on case studies).

© CIFOR/Axel Fassio

3.	 Communicating risk, and why risk sometimes
increases even in the face of evidence.

26 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

4.	 Analysing risk governance and how systemic
risk can be better managed.
A call for contributing papers followed, which
resulted in some 238 abstracts, of which 77 were
selected for further development and peer review.
Demand for help in applying the key findings of
GAR 201925 particularly to better understand
the systemic nature of risk and the necessary
governance and management response continued
throughout 2020. The second special issue of the
Disaster Prevention and Management journal was
also published, based on GAR 201926 Propelled
by an eight-article series The COVID-19 pandemic
and the systemic nature of risk and accompanying
webinars, UNDRR saw a proliferation of invitations
to provide lectures, keynote speeches and
authorship in flagship reports exploring systemic
risk governance and management.
Drafting was initiated on the GAR Special
Report on Drought, due in June 2021. The report
further develops the modern understanding of
drought, and the systems that create risk and
can be used to manage it. The report will draw on
extensive case studies and highlight how factors
such as climate change and human action are
necessitating upgraded drought governance
arrangements.
UNDRR was invited as an Advisor to the EU
Joint Research Centre Science for DRM 2020, a
co-author of Pathways to a post-COVID World:

23	 UNDRR, Guidance Note on Using the Probabilistic Country Risk Profiles for Disaster Risk Management (Geneva, UNDRR,
2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/guidance-note-using-probabilistic-country-risk-profiles-disaster-riskmanagement
24	 Through GRAF, UNDRR leverages and connects the work of partners from around the United Nations including FAO, UNDP,
UNESCO, UNHCR UNICEF, UNFCCC, UNU, UNOOSA, WFP, as well as the UN Major Group for Children and Youth ICRC, IFRC,
IPBES and IUCN.
25	 See the UNDRR GAR site at https://gar.undrr.org
26	 Disaster Prevention and Management, Special Issue: Disaster risk governance – solution or driver of vulnerability, volume 29,
issue 5, (Bingley, U.K., Emerald Publishing, 2020). Available at https://www.emerald.com/insight/publication/issn/0965-3562/
vol/29/iss/5

 | 27

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1

“The GRAF was used in the
formulation of the Queensland
Emergency Risk Management
Framework, in articulating
how risk assessment, risk
governance, and disaster risk
reduction are interrelated. The
GRAF identifies and presents
clearly and intuitively how
risk interacts in complex and
manifold ways across the
spectrum of human activity,
and provides prompts for
localising these interactions
to specific contexts.”
Dr Lochlan Morrissey
Senior program officer, Hazard and Risk
Emergency Management and Community
Capability, Queensland Fire and Emergency
Services

Governance for Sustainability of the International Science
Council and International Institute for Applied Systems
Analysis. As Co-Chair of the Insurance Development
Forum’s Risk Modelling Steering Group, UNDRR co-authored
the Development Impact of Risk Analytics Report (DIRA)
together with (re-)insurance industry and public sector
partners. This highlights the role risk analytics can play in
achieving the Sustainable Development Goals and charts
the way for more active public-private partnerships to
address systemic risk.
Throughout the course of 2020, UNDRR developed core
normative guidance. To improve risk assessments, a
Technical Guide on Action Oriented Comprehensive Risk
Assessment and Planning in the Context of Climate Change
was initiated for release in 2021. Together with the UN
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
secretariat, UNDRR developed guidance to enhance
coherence between national disaster risk reduction
strategies and National Adaptation Plans through a Words
into Action Guide (WiA) on integrating climate change
adaptation (CCA) into national disaster risk reduction
strategies.
In the Asia Pacific region, UNDRR’s partnerships led to
an array of new knowledge products. In collaboration
with the Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC),
UNDRR developed 12 new national Disaster Risk
Management Status Reports.27 Each provides a baseline
snapshot of a country’s progress under the four priorities
of the Sendai Framework, along with key challenges
and recommendations for strengthening Disaster Risk
Management (DRM) governance, and have been used to
inform Common Country Analysis processes in countries
such as Myanmar, Lao PDR, Maldives and Thailand.
UNDRR also produced a report entitled Ecosystem-Based
Disaster Risk Reduction: Implementing Nature-based
Solutions for Resilience28, with close engagement from
members of the Partnership for Environment and Disaster
Risk Reduction (PEDRR), on leveraging Nature-based
Solutions (NbS) for reducing disaster risk, providing
examples and tools to help policy makers localize
approaches in Asia and the Pacific.29

27	 Published reports at https://www.preventionweb.net/collections/asiapacific-profiles
28	 UNDRR, Ecosystem-Based Disaster Risk Reduction: Implementing Nature-based Solutions for Resilience (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://
www.undrr.org/publication/ecosystem-based-disaster-risk-reduction-implementing-nature-based-solutions-0
29	 For example, the 2019 National Disaster Management Plan of India provides a comprehensive mechanism to implement ecosystem-based disaster
risk reduction approaches in river basins, mountainous regions and coastlines. By framing ecosystems as natural barriers that moderate hazards, the
responsibilities of both central and state governments towards strengthening DRR governance is manifest.
30	See https://www.undrr.org/about-undrr-where-we-work/asia-pacific

28 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

© Imageo/Velio Coviello

Nine pandemic-focused issue briefs30 that capitalized on
emerging lessons and offered actionable recommendations
were published, ranging on topics from risk communication
and social protection to human rights and displaced
persons. In addition, a more detailed regional policy paper:
Review of COVID-19 disaster risk governance in Asia-

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1

Pacific: Towards Multi-Hazard and Multi-Sectoral Disaster
Risk Reduction31 was published. The policy paper examines
policies, regulatory and institutional mechanisms used
for risk governance in Asia and the Pacific, incorporating
UNDRR’s global strategy and the goals set by the UN
Secretary-General to prevent infections, protect the most
vulnerable and plan for a resilient recovery.

Member State and stakeholder interest in risk-informed
financing has increased. UNDRR developed a guidance
note on risk profiles that was used to upgrade 16 National
Risk Profiles in Africa34 around floods and droughts and to
develop 16 Disaster Risk-Sensitive Budget Reviews.35 This
led to the publication of a document on the application in
Angola, UR Tanzania and Zambia.

Given the paucity of regional disaster risk reduction
literature, in the Arab States region, UNDRR began
developing an Arab States Regional Assessment Report
(RAR) to understand risk trends and risk reduction, in
support of risk-informed sustainable development. The Arab
States RAR will be published in 2021.

The Africa Road Map for Improving the Availability, Access
and Use of Disaster Risk Information for Early Warning and
Early Action, including in the Context of Transboundary
Risk Management, launched in February with UNDRR’s
support, highlighted the need to improve accessibility to risk
information in Africa.36 The roadmap emphasized synergies
with other early warning/early action global, Continental
and sub-regional programmes and initiatives, which will
strengthen the implementation of Sendai Targets (f) and (g)
in the continent.

In the Americas and the Caribbean region, the first RAR
will review six years of progress in Sendai Framework
implementation, with an analysis of recent decades,
the drivers of risk, as well as new regional dynamics
accelerating the creation of new risk. UNDRR co-developed
with the Economic Commission for Latin America and
the Caribbean (ECLAC) an analysis of systemic risk
and COVID-19, which was launched in March 202132.
Additionally, 11 publications and 12 webinars were
organised providing advice on the integration of disaster
risk reduction and supporting the work of partners in their
efforts to respond to the COVID-19 crisis.

1.3

GLOBAL COORDINATION AND REVIEW
MECHANISMS OF THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK
ARE IN PLACE
The seventh session of the Global Platform for
Disaster Risk Reduction (GP2022) is scheduled for
23-28 May 2022 in Bali, Indonesia. Among the first
steps, UNDRR conducted a survey with Member
States, the UN system and stakeholders on their
priority topics, type and format of sessions.

In Europe, as coordinator of the European Science and
Technology Advisory Group (E-STAG), UNDRR developed
policy guidance papers for regional and national action
on evolving wildfire risk. This led to direct impact, for
example, in France, where a law regarding local authority
responsibility in disaster and wildfire mitigation was
amended and became a case study for other countries.

31	 UNDRR, Review of COVID-19 disaster risk governance in Asia-Pacific: Towards Multi-Hazard and Multi-Sectoral Disaster Risk Reduction (Geneva,
UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/review-covid-19-disaster-risk-governance-asia-pacific-towards-multi-hazard-and-multi
32	 UNDRR, UNDRR & ECLAC Report: The coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic - an opportunity for a systemic approach to disaster risk for the
Caribbean (Geneva, UNDRR, 2021). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/undrr-eclac-report-coronavirus-disease-covid-19-pandemicopportunity-systemic-approach
33	 UNDRR, The Highlights: Africa Regional Assessment Report (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/highlights-africaregional-assessment-report-2020
34	 Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Kingdom of Eswatini, Côte d’Ivoire, Namibia, Rwanda,
São Tomé and Príncipe, United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia.
35	 Accessible at http://riskprofilesundrr.org/riskprofiles/
36	 Jointly authored and endorsed by the AUC, IGAD, and governments of Angola, Ethiopia, UR Tanzania and Zambia.

30 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

© UNDRR/Antoine Tardy

In the Africa region, UNDRR published the executive
summary of The Highlights: Africa Regional Assessment
Report,33 with the full report and a COVID-19 addendum
planned for release in 2021. The Africa RAR analyses the
continental challenges, opportunities, innovations, lessons
learned, and progress made in implementing the Sendai
Framework in Africa.

Preparations for a key stock-take review exercise
at the midterm point of the Sendai Framework also
began in 2020, with the adoption of the General
Assembly Resolution 75/216, which: “recognizes
that the Sendai Framework, including its core
provision to “build back better”, provides guidance
relevant to a sustainable recovery from COVID-19
and also to identify and address underlying drivers of
disaster risk in a systemic manner, decides to hold
and midterm review of the Sendai Framework in
2023 to assess progress on integrating disaster risk
reduction into policies, programmes and investments
at all levels, identify good practice, gaps and
challenges and accelerate the path to achieving the
goal of the Sendai Framework in 2023.”37

Image from the sixth session of
the Global Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction in 2019.

37	 General Assembly Resolution 75/216, available at https://
digitallibrary.un.org/record/3896586

 | 31

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
2

© Unsplash/Macau Photo Agency

Support to regional and national Sendai
Framework implementation

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

In the Asia and the Pacific region, most countries finished
2020 with a strategy, plan or framework that aligns with
the Sendai Framework, marking a shift from disaster
management to disaster risk management. Of 39 countries,
29 have developed national disaster loss databases.

2.1

NATIONAL AND LOCAL DISASTER RISK
REDUCTION STRATEGIES AND PLANS
ARE DEVELOPED AND IMPLEMENTED
IN LINE WITH SENDAI FRAMEWORK IN
COHERENCE WITH CLIMATE ACTION AND THE
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS

34 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

*

Europe

Asia-Pacific

Arab States

Americas-Caribbean

Africa

COUNTRIES AND TERRITORIES
USING DESINVENTAR DISASTER
LOSS DATABASES ALIGNED WITH
THE SENDAI FRAMEWORK

101

Member and Observer
States reporting the
existence of a National
Disaster Risk Reduction
Strategy in the Sendai
Framework Monitor
Africa: 18
Americas-Caribbean: 18
Arab States: 13
Asia-Pacific: 23
Europe: 29

11

34

10

23

1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States’ self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

28

38	 59% of LDCs, SIDS and Landlocked Developing
Countries developed national disaster risk reduction
strategies in line with the Sendai Framework by the
end of 2019 compared to 25% in 2015. For more
information see: UNDRR Status Report on Target
E (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020), available at https://
www.undrr.org/publication/status-report-target-eimplementation-2020

SENDAI FRAMEWORK TARGET (e): 101 MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES REPORTED
THE EXISTENCE OF A NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION STRATEGY IN THE
SENDAI FRAMEWORK MONITOR

106
Region

UNDRR undertook a major Discovery and
Needs Analysis to guide the development of a
new national disaster loss data management
system to enhance synergies, including
interoperability of systems, to better manage
the convergence of Sendai Framework and
SDG indicators, and to inform risk policy
development and investment for strengthened
risk governance and resilient economies. By
December 2020, there were 120 countries and
territories using DesInventar disaster loss
databases.

Support in revisions or development of national strategy
documents to shift from disaster management to disaster
risk management was provided in Cambodia, Maldives,
the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Lao PDR, Sri Lanka
and Vietnam. As part of a coordinated approach towards
country support on national disaster risk reduction
strategies, UNDP and UNDRR closely collaborated to
support the Government of the Philippines in revising its
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management (DRRM) Plan,
which was adopted in October 2020.39

Grand total

Number of countries/territories

2020 was the deadline for achievement
of Sendai Framework’s Target (e), the
development of national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies. To support this milestone
UNDRR conducted a quantitative analysis of
SFM data, and found highly exposed LDCs,
SIDS and LLDCs had a high rate of Target (e)
achievement.38 The global pandemic added
urgency to the importance of policy coherence
between national disaster risk reduction
strategies and sustainable development
frameworks, the Paris Agreement, as well as
ensuring that health and biological hazards are
adequately incorporated.

In the Pacific, UNDRR, UNDP, and the Pacific Community
(SPC) significantly updated records of recent disasters
in the Pacific Damage and Loss (PDaLo) system and
DesInventar disaster loss database, while in Asia UNDRR
supported the government of India’s development of a
National Disaster Management Information System, while
continuing to provide regular technical support to other
countries in the region.

Regulatory work with the governments of Fiji, the
Philippines and Kiribati for improved disaster risk reduction
governance were continued, and with the Solomon Islands
to manage and use disaster loss data, to boost integrated
risk governance, and to draw from experience regionally and
globally.

DesInventar Disaster Loss Databases

39	 The revision builds on the implementation of the first nine years of the long-term DRRM Plan (2011-2028) and paves way for a more coherent
implementation for the next nine years.

 | 35

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

UNDRR initiated an Asia and the Pacific regional analysis on integration between disaster risk reduction and
climate change adaptation to show current trends and
good practices, and to identify strategic entry points for
national integration and regional advocacy. In early 2020, a
workshop was held for central and local governments from
Bangladesh, Indonesia, Nepal and Maldives,40 to incorporate disaster risk reduction integration and climate change
adaptation into local planning and policy development.
In the Arab States, UNDRR surveyed entry points for
implementation of the pilot phase of the Coherent Approach
in Sudan, Djibouti, the Comoros, and Mauritania (LDCs
and SIDSs).41 In Sudan, UNDRR improved the government’s
disaster risk reduction programming alignment with climate
change and the SDGs. In Somalia, a project was started to
improve governance and the understanding of disaster risk,
to mainstream and localize disaster risk reduction, to build
a disaster loss database and multi-hazard country profile,
to centralize COVID-19 data, and to strengthen coherence in
the national disaster risk reduction strategy.

Using disaster loss databases, UNDRR mapped historic
disaster losses in the Arab States from 1970 to 2019
and completed an assessment in ten Arab countries,
demonstrating that disasters and exposure to multiple
hazards reverses social development. 13 national disaster
risk reduction strategies were reviewed to understand how
biological hazards, including epidemics and pandemics, are
addressed in the disaster risk reduction cycle. This review
fed into a guidance note on integrating biological hazards
for the Fifth Arab Partnership Meeting for Disaster Risk
Reduction held in November 2020.
Underscoring that local governments are critical for
inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable human settlements,
local governments in the Arab States region moved quickly
to contain the COVID-19 threat to health systems, the
economy, and people. In a UNDRR webinar with various Arab
cities it was clear that cities with pre-existing emergency
plans or disaster risk reduction strategies coped better
with the COVID-19 crisis.

“Fiji is now more invested
in preparedness, with
strengthened disaster risk
governance capacity to
manage disaster risks.”
Ms. Vasiti Soko
Director of the Fiji National Disaster
Management Office

By the close of 2020 in the Americas and the Caribbean,
there were 24 countries (69%) that had national disaster
risk reduction strategies aligned to the Sendai Framework
adopted or in process.42 UNDRR provided both overall
guidance and technical support to increase capacity
and improve data collection using DesInventar disaster
loss databases, and provided in-country support to six
countries on disaster loss data collection and analysis.43
In coordination with the Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Management Agency (CDEMA), UNDRR is supporting
14 countries in the development of national disaster
risk reduction plans, ensuring stronger risk analysis and
contributing to enhanced risk governance mechanisms.
In the Africa region 18 countries validated strategies or policies aligned to the Sendai Framework and seven countries
are developing or validating their strategies. To achieve this
and strengthened disaster risk management in the context
of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNDRR worked closely with the
African Union Commission (AUC) and the Regional Economic Communities (RECs) in the region throughout the year.
In early 2020, UNDRR held a multi-country policy coherence
peer-to-peer exchange on disaster risk reduction, climate
adaptation, and the SDGs in Niger with participants from
Benin, Cote d’Ivoire, Niger, and Togo. Countries examined
policy coherence to improve climate change adaptation,
disaster risk reduction for operational purposes, regional
coordination mechanisms and assessments, and
investment. As one example, Niger integrated CCA into their
disaster risk reduction strategy.

© IFRC

An April UNDRR survey44 of disaster management
agencies’ roles showed that sub-Saharan Africa is
strengthening government coordination forums composed
of public officials and sectoral experts to steer COVID-19
response. The UNDRR desk review of biological hazards
integration into 18 national disaster risk reduction
strategies in Africa highlighted a need to improve
understanding of the linkages between epidemic policy and
prevention.

40	 In partnership with the Asian Institute of Technology Regional Resource Centre for Asia and the Pacific and the EPIC network.
41	 Read more about the survey findings here https://www.preventionweb.net/files/72168_dataandinterventionsrelatedtocovid1.pdf

36 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Notably, there is increased demand for disaster loss data
coordination so that economic loss can be mapped. In
Ethiopia for example, UNDRR worked with the National
Disaster Risk Reduction Commission (NDRMC) to support
the development of an early warning system for forest
fires using open-source platforms to establish standard
operating procedures for thresholds, early warnings, and to
boost linkages amongst national agencies. In partnership
with NDRMC and other partners, including the Ministry of
Finance, UNDRR undertook a risk sensitive budget review in
order to allow for disaster risk reduction budget tracking to
be established in the future and for national authorities to
have a clear picture of disaster risk reduction investments.

42	 Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Barbados, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Ecuador, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, United States of America and Uruguay
43	 Antigua and Barbuda, St. Lucia, Guyana, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago and Uruguay
44	 UNDRR, COVID-19 Brief: Preliminary Evidence from Sub-Saharan Africa (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/covid19-brief-preliminary-evidence-sub-saharan-africa

 | 37

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

H.E. U. Khürelsükh
Prime Minister of Mongolia (2017-2021),
speaking at the MCR2030 launch
October 2020

A webinar series critically assessing the investments
required for a harmonized system of Early Warning for
Early Action and transboundary risk management was held
in collaboration with the AUC. In Malawi, UNDRR engaged
national partners across the water, disaster, meteorological,
information, survey sectors (as well as the Red Cross) to
boost the myDewetra platform for early warning, and to
establish joint disaster risk and climate change coordination
committees.45
In Europe, UNDRR continued to develop national
competence and capacity around disaster loss databases.
Trainings and workshops were organized for participants
from Armenia, Portugal, Slovakia and Romania. An
analysis of data collection structures in Kazakhstan, the
Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan
initiated the establishment of data steering committees and
focal points.
To support Target (e) of the Sendai Framework, in Bosnia
& Herzegovina, UNDRR shared expertise, collaborated in
disaster risk reduction strategy development, and assessed
draft and existing strategic plans at sub-regional and
national levels, helping to develop its national strategy.
In Bulgaria, experts from the European Science and
Technology Advisory Group, the government and other
stakeholders evaluated the country’s National Strategy
and draft national programme, with a report that will help
authorities to finalize elements of their strategic plan.
In Moldova, a similar 2019 UNDRR-supported process
continued through 2020. In Ukraine their national strategy
will emphasize the reduction of biological risk.

45	 myDewetra is a real-time system for hydro-meteorological forecasting and monitoring. It is a web-based platform that systematically organizes
data and information produced by multiple institutions and agencies, from local to national and international levels. It links data producers and civil
protection operators while assisting users to prepare real time risk scenarios based on the available data. The data infrastructure is built to minimize
the data transmission time and to share data in real-time to different users in order to reduce the reaction time and have all the information available
in one unique system-platform. It can be accessed at https://www.mydewetra.world/

38 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

© Unsplash/Ismail Mohamed

“During my tenure as Deputy
Prime Minister of Mongolia,
all 22 major cities in
Mongolia joined the Making
Cities Resilient Campaign
in 2017, and I inform you
that the Government of
Mongolia has fulfilled its
commitment to implement
Target (e) of the Sendai
Framework by 2020, and all
our major cities have adopted
and are implementing
local DRR strategies as
of today... Through this
Campaign, I believe that
we have been able to build
better community disaster
resilience and recognize
the importance of local
leadership in DRR.”

The UNDRR report Pathways for policy coherence among
disaster risk reduction and adaptation in Sub-Saharan
Africa assesses the level of integration between the
disaster risk and climate adaptation fields in 32 countries,
suggesting that coherence is more incidental than
structural. To address this, support was provided to five
countries to include the convergence of disaster risk
reduction and CCA through the submission of National
Adaptation Plans (NAPs) to the UNFCCC. Increasingly,
UNDRR’s work has reached down to the city and
departmental levels, a fact attested as municipalities of
Mukono, Uganda and Kisumu, Kenya now prioritize disaster
risk reduction planning.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

MAKING CITIES RESILIENT CAMPAIGN
TO MCR 2030
In 2020, UNDRR continued to deliver the advocacy
and tools of the Making Cities Resilient Campaign
(the Campaign) while beginning preparations for
Making Cities Resilient 2030 (MCR 2030). In the
ten years of the Campaign, awareness was built
and commitments were made by 4,360 cities
from around the globe. However, over the decade,
it became increasingly apparent that cities need
to build ‘vertical’ governance linkages (local, to
regional, and to central), as well as horizontal
engagement across government agencies, civil
society, the private sector, media, academia, and
private citizens.
UNDRR, partners, and city networks conceived
of the MCR2030 initiative to put a stronger
focus on implementation.46 MCR2030 seeks to
support cities to assess their various resilience
profiles, accelerate the development of local
disaster risk reduction and resilience strategies,
and to integrate strategies with climate change
adaptation for urban resilience and sustainable
development, risk-informed development backed
by local, regional and global partners, whilst
cohering with global frameworks.

record and monitor progress; and a registry to find
potential specialist service providers who can support
implementation of actions.
In anticipation of the launch of MCR2030, UNDRR
established a Global Coordinating Committee and five
Regional Coordinating Committees (RCC) responsible
for coordinating and ensuring synergies among regional
partners in providing technical support to cities to empower
them to progress along the resilience roadmap.47 All five
UNDRR Regional Offices organized either a regional launch
RCC meeting in 2020 or made plans for one in 2021.
Even as the MCR2030 was launched in October 2020, the
MCR campaign continued to support cities up to the end
of the year through advocacy, information, planning and
implementation of risk reduction and resilience plans,
emphasizing disaster risk reduction coherence with climate
risks and SDG 11. As the COVID-19 pandemic unfolded,
cities found themselves on the forefront of the response
to COVID-19, managing complex scenarios that involved
successive disease outbreaks whilst addressing cascading
socio-economic impacts as well as other emergencies.
UNDRR immediately began supporting cities through
establishing joint engagement between the WHO Healthy

“When we started
the understanding of
risk management, the
understanding specifically
of disaster risk and climate
change was very low...we
are glad to say that to date
we have a resilient strategy
for disaster risk and climate
change”

The new initiative offers cities a clear, three-stage
resilience roadmap. From January 2021, MCR2030
will provide advisory support for improved disaster
risk reduction and resilience planning, climate
finance, municipal finance and climate adaptation;
improve coordination between national and local
governments and national associations of local
governments; and forge strong implementation
partnerships at the local level.
It also incorporates lessons from the Campaign
by providing a resilience roadmap for cities with
time-bound commitments; key global partnerships
that keep MCR2030 connected to global policies
and the 2030 Agenda; a regional network of actors
with strong links and implementation experience
to connect cities; a governance structure that
supports, connects and facilitates resiliencebuilding and knowledge sharing; an online
dashboard application allowing cities to

46	 Core partners that supported the launch of the MCR2030 in October were Local Governments for Sustainability (ICLEI), IFRC,
JICA, the Resilient Cities Network, United Cities and Local Governments (UCLG), UN-Habitat, UNOPS, the World Bank Group
and World Council on City Data (WCCD).

40 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Consolate Nakyagaba Kiyingi
Manager, Risk Management, Kampala City
Capital Authority (KCCA)

47	
48	
49	
50	
51	

Cities Network and the MCR campaign, and the Public
Health System Resilience Addendum for the UNDRR
Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities (Scorecard), a local
risk assessment tool, became instrumental in 2020 helping
local governments understand public health exposure
related to COVID-19. For instance, a local strategy for
disaster risk reduction, which emphasized the public health
sector, was developed for Tajikistan’s capital Dushanbe.
The Scorecard was translated into additional languages,
bringing the total to 16 languages,48 and two additional
addendums to the Scorecard were also initiated: an
addendum on cultural heritage management and an
addendum for people living with disabilities. Eleven cities in
Peru49 applied the Cultural Heritage Resilience Scorecard as
part of the pilot project held with UNESCO and AECOM. The
addendum to promote the inclusion of people living with
disabilities will be rolled-out in 2021.
UNDRR further provided tailored support across regions
to raise awareness and strengthen capacity to develop
local strategies through a series of virtual training and
engagements with partners in Argentina, Brazil, Chile,
Colombia, El Salvador and Peru to share resilience tools,
methodologies and learnings related to urban resilience
building and strengthening in the region. Dubai, UAE and
Incheon Metropolitan City, Republic of Korea were both
recognised as role model cities of the Campaign for their
sustainability and resilience building achievements.
Virtual workshops with speakers from cities and regional
authorities from across Europe, to share best practices
around the COVID-19 pandemic, organized in partnership
with the European Committee of the Regions Natural Resources Commission and the Centre for European Volunteering, led to cities from 13 countries to develop holistic local
disaster risk reduction strategies using MCR tools.50
Following a request by the Mayor of Mutare, Zimbabwe,
UNDRR provided the Urban Councils Association of
Zimbabwe with disaster risk reduction awareness training.
As a result of the training, 11 cities committed to reducing
disaster risk and joined MCR2030. An orientation was also
provided for 21 mayors from Burundi, Democratic Republic
of Congo and Rwanda on Urban Risk Reduction and Making
Cities Resilient.
In coordination with the Asian Disaster Reduction and
Response Network (ADRRN), UNDRR released a publication
entitled Local Leadership for Disaster Resilience: Profiles
from Asia and the Pacific.51 The publication analyses the
good practices and success stories of community leaders
in Asia and the Pacific to outline common threads across
these examples and propose local leadership principles.

The Regional Coordinating Committees (RCC) are supported by the Regional Secretariats served by the respective UNDRR Regional Offices.
Arabic, Bengali, Burmese, Chinese, English, French, Italian, Korean, Mongolian, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Russian, Spanish, and Turkish
Piura, Lima, Rímac, Cusco, Chachapoyas, Cajamarca, Lambayeque, Ayacucho, Trujillo and Arequipa
Armenia, Bulgaria, Georgia, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, North Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan
UNDRR, Local Leadership for Disaster Resilience: Profiles from Asia and the Pacific (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/
publication/local-leadership-disaster-resilience-profiles-asia-and-pacific

 | 41

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

TARGETED SUPPORT TO UNDCOs AND UNCTs

2.2

HOW UNDRR TRAININGS & WEBINARS
ARE USED

STRENGTHENED CAPACITY OF
COUNTERPARTS, UN COUNTRY TEAMS AND
PARTNERS FOR LEADERSHIP IN DISASTER
RISK REDUCTION

Another key mechanism UNDRR led was the development,
dissemination and training for RCs and UNCTs based on
the Guidance Note on Integrating Disaster Risk Reduction
and Climate Change Adaptation in the UN Sustainable
Development Cooperation Framework56 The Cooperation
Frameworks determine and reflect the UN development
system’s contributions in the country and shapes the
configuration of UN assets required inside and outside the
country. It guides the entire programme cycle, planning,
implementation, monitoring, reporting and evaluation of
collective UN support for achieving the 2030 Agenda. As
such, this guidance on such aspects, as use of climate and
disaster risk information to inform the Common Country
Analysis and ultimately the Cooperation Framework,
presents a key opportunity to reduce risk and strengthen
resilience to disasters at the national level.

New participants included healthcare providers, prison
management officers, postal service officers, small-business
owners, local NGOs, technology sector representatives
and community leaders. Through new partnerships new
resources were developed for online delivery, including
with ARISE, MCR partners, the IPU, IFRC, UN agencies
and Resident Coordinators (RCs), intergovernmental
organisations, multilateral agencies and national ministries
of health, economy and finance.

72%

45%

61%

56%

In the Asia and the Pacific region, eight regional webinars
on integrating COVID-19 considerations into disaster risk
reduction were recorded, shared online and followed by
a summary story and issue brief with an average webinar
attendance of around 1,000 each.54 In addition, a virtual
workshop on SFM was organized for participants from
China and UN staff members based in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.55

UNDRR’s orientation series on the Guidance Note, targeting
RCOs and UNCTs, reached over 130 participants from
more than 20 UN partners to support its uptake in 2021.
As a result of UNDRR’s support to the development of new
Cooperation Frameworks, undertaken in close coordination
with UN partners, all 24 new Cooperation Frameworks
signed in 2020 have disaster risk reduction and resilience
reflected in the Results Framework.

44%

New approaches reached new audiences. The winter
edition of UNDRR and UNITAR’s recurring online course
on developing local disaster risk reduction strategies was
made more accessible for the hearing and visually impaired
in line with the UN Disability Inclusion Strategy. As a result,
officers with hearing and visual impairments from the Asia
and the Pacific region were trained. South-South, NorthSouth and triangular approaches were further encouraged,
including through enhanced engagement with the United
Nations Office for South-South Cooperation.

40%

UNDRR’s annual global Training of Trainers (ToT) on Sendai
Framework Monitoring and Disaster Loss Accounting
continues to build a pool of experts to develop national
monitoring capacity. To adapt to the pandemic context, the
previous four-day face-to-face training was adapted to a sixweek online interactive training. The virtual modality enabled
training of more participants, twice as many as the previous
year. The number was caped to provide interactive one-onone coaching and guidance.53

New content was quickly integrated into training materials
and webinars, from a variety of sources, such as the
systemic risk messages of the UNDRR Global Assessment
Report 2019. New tools were featured to meet the needs
of stakeholders, such as the Public Health Scorecard
Addendum. Lessons learned from online training delivery
were shared in training-of-trainer sessions.

Percentage of total UNDRR 2020 Survey Respondents

NEW TRAINING APPROACHES BUILT NEW PARTNERSHIPS
UNDRR swiftly adapted to COVID-19 pandemic realities
that spurred rapid growth in online training programmes.
New audiences were built and shaped by the nature of the
emergency and the urgent need for reliable information. As
a result, in 2020 UNDRR either adapted or newly developed
47 online and blended training programmes that reached
more than 5,000 participants from 165 countries and
territories, as well as organized 27 webinars that drew more
than 6,000 participants.52

Shared learning within the national platform
Shared learning within their ministry or department
Led or contributed to consultations with local government
Contributed their learning to COVID-19 response and recovery
planning
Shared learning formally in other meetings, training or events
Shared the acquired knowledge informally with colleagues

52	 Note, some participants attended both online training programmes and webinars.
53	 This figure only counts those participants that attended a critical number of sessions.
54	See: https://www.undrr.org/about-undrr-where-we-work/asia-pacific
55	See: https://www.undrr.org/news/strengthening-and-learning-chinas-work-disaster-risk-reduction

42 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

UNDRR leveraged UN development system reform to
strengthen national level mainstreaming of multi-hazard
disaster risk reduction into UN interventions, in alignment
with strengthened global and regional engagement. UNDRR
developed and shared, in close coordination with UNDCO, a
briefing package for RCOs and other UN agencies in-country
to share guidance on how to operationalize the Sendai
Framework in a national context and outline the support that
UNDRR can provide in this endeavour.

In Europe, support was extended to18 UNCTs to integrate
disaster risk reduction results into Common Country
Analysis and Cooperation Frameworks and in the
implementation of the Cooperation Frameworks. Together
with the Regional UN Development Coordination Office
(UNDCO) a webinar for UNRCOs to introduce a regional
briefing package developed by UNDRR was held.
In the Americas and the Caribbean, consistent one-on-one
support was provided to national counterparts on Sendai
Framework monitoring and reporting as well as support for
the development of national strategies and plans and overall
guidance for disaster-risk informed development policies
and practices.57 UNDRR is working closely with the Peer
56 UNDRR, Integrating Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change
Adaptation in the UN Sustainable Development Cooperation
Framework (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.
org/publication/integrating-disaster-risk-reduction-and-climate-changeadaptation-un-sustainable
57 Including Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, St. Lucia,
Guyana, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago, Perú,
Panamá, Paraguay and Uruguay

 | 43

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

Support Group to provide guidance to UNCTs and RC offices
developing new Common Country Analysis and Cooperation
Frameworks. In Panama and Barbados, UNDRR ensured
the inclusion of disaster risk reduction and environmental
and biological hazard management in the new Cooperation
Framework and contributed to the development of
Cooperation Frameworks for Argentina, Colombia, Guyana,
Jamaica and Uruguay.
Also in the Americas and the Caribbean, UNDRR co-leads
the IBC on climate change and resilience, together with
UNEP and developed a document called Addressing
COVID-19 – IBC Climate Change and Resilience, Latin
America and the Caribbean region which contains 26 tools
and resources on IBC topics, and a section on common
advocacy and communication messages.58
In the Arab States, coordination with RCOs in Egypt,
Jordan, and Lebanon yielded an agreement between
UNDP, UNEP and UNDRR on support to the UNCTs through
developing joint diagnostic papers on disaster risk reduction
and climate change, and implementing the guidance note
on integrating disaster and climate risk in the Cooperation
Framework processes.

In the African region, disaster risk reduction was included
for the first time in several significant development
programming documents such as Uganda’s Sustainable
Development Cooperation Framework (2021-2025) which
notes that “By 2025, Uganda’s natural resources and
environment are sustainably managed and protected, and
people, especially the vulnerable and marginalized, have
the capacity to mitigate and adapt to climate change and
disaster risks.” Ethiopia’s Cooperation Framework (20202025) notes that “All people in Ethiopia live in a society
resilient to environmental risks and adapted to climate
change.” UNDRR contributed to the development of these
two Cooperation Frameworks and ensured that disaster
risk reduction was integrated across many sectors in these
planning documents.
In Nigeria UNDRR provided inputs to the preliminary
analysis of the Common Country Analysis diagnostic paper
on Climate and Environment. UNDRR is also supporting
Kenya’s Common Country Analysis to ensure resilience and
risk informed programming is integrated. This will form
the basis for initiating the process of developing the new
Cooperation Framework 2022-2026. In Malawi, UNDP and
UNDRR are supporting the government’s implementation of
a bill on disaster risk management and resilience.

© Shutterstock/Narongpon Chaibot

In the Asia Pacific region, UNDRR organised a regional
orientation for UN agencies on integrating CCA and disaster
risk reduction into the Cooperation Framework processes.
UNDRR adapted the training to support the Bangladesh
RCO and UNCT in their efforts to integrate the impacts of
COVID-19 in their Country Common Analysis. UNDRR also
leveraged support from several UNDP country offices, and

regional organisations, such as the Pacific Community
(SPC), by delivering training-of-trainer sessions to support
governments in their reporting and use of SFM data. The
development of this in-country expertise will increase
UNDRR’s ability to support countries, particularly with travel
restrictions in place for COVID-19.

58	 Seven webinars organized and led by different members of the coalition under the framework and in alignment with approaches of the IBC, reaching
more than 2,500 participants from across the region and beyond. Five brief documents (Three in Spanish and two in English) with conclusions from
the webinars were produced and made available.

44 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

2.3

REGIONAL AND NATIONAL COORDINATION
MECHANISMS MOBILIZED TO ACCELERATE
SENDAI FRAMEWORK IMPLEMENTATION
UNDRR’s approach to work through and leverage regional and national coordination mechanisms allowed
acceleration of the Sendai Framework implementation, as regional and national entities worked to continue
their work while responding to the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.

CENTRAL ASIA
In Central Asia, UNDRR steadily built the
foundations for greater resilience through aligned
data, capacity, governance and cooperation at
local, national and regional levels. All Central
Asian states reported on national implementation
using the SFM. Activities in the sub-region
include training for Sendai Focal Points and
trainers across five countries, analysing regional
and national disaster risk reduction legislation,
and compiling a list of existing bilateral and
multilateral agreements on cooperation around
transboundary hazards.
The pandemic contributed to the urgency of
assessing national response measures. In Almaty
an agreement was established with the Centre
for Emergency Situations and Disaster Risk
Reduction (CESDRR) to develop a work plan that
includes establishing and maintaining a regional
disaster loss database, with data to be shared
across countries, and support for an annual
forum for disaster management authorities of
Central Asian countries. In December, at the Third
Regional Forum of Heads of National Disaster
Management Agencies in Central Asia, CESDRR
presented the draft of the regional risk profile
and a draft version of the Regional disaster risk
reduction strategy.

AFRICA
In the Africa region, in March 2020, the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development
(IGAD) requested that UNDRR deliver a workshop
on SFM and disaster loss databases for its
Member States. Two key outcomes were a
roadmap to accelerate disaster data collection
and management and monitoring of disaster risk
reduction, and a new collaboration with FAO on
reporting agricultural losses. In April 2020, UNDRR
and the AUC held a virtual meeting for disaster
risk reduction focal points in which 70 participants
exchanged experiences related to the COVID-19
challenges.59
UNDRR continued as the Secretariat for the AUCchaired African Working Group on DRR. In July
2020, more than 80 participants from Member
States, RECs, AUC, UN agencies, IFRC, the World
Bank, the African Development Bank, civil society
organisations and donors met virtually to support
advocacy and awareness raising; strengthen
coordination mechanisms and multi-hazard early
warning systems; to mobilize resources, improve
risk governance; and understand the management
of systemic risk. In October 2020, more than 60
participants met to review progress, next steps
on Sendai Framework Target (e) and resource
mobilization.

59	 UNDRR, COVID-19 Brief: Virtual Dialogue between national and regional Disaster Risk Reduction Focal Points (Geneva, UNDRR,
2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/covid-19-brief-virtual-dialogue-between-national-and-regional-disasterrisk-reduction

 | 45

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

At the African Peer Review Mechanism’s (APRM) virtual
workshop on building state resilience, UNDRR, WHO, the
AUC, and the APRM agreed to help governments in the
region strengthen disaster risk reduction for resilience,
as well as enhance capacity for preparedness, response
and recovery, and to support Member States to implement
international frameworks relating to shocks, disasters and
infectious diseases.
UNDRR actively shaped input, policy and outcomes in the
Greater Horn of Africa Climate Outlook Forum (GHACOF),
the theme of which was Managing Climate-Related
Risks for Resilience; and the Africa Regional Forum on
Sustainable Development’s integrated approach to disaster
risk reduction, climate change and mitigation strategies.
In November 2020, the AUC held The Special Session of
African Ministers of Environment and Natural Resources,
on the Challenges and Opportunities presented by the
COVID-19 Pandemic, which recognized the urgency of
mainstreaming disaster risk reduction, harmonizing or
pooling multi-hazard disaster management funds at all
levels, and strengthening multi-hazard early warning
systems. In February a Workshop on Risk Profiling
and Early Warning with both high-level and technical
engagement endorsed a continental impact-based early
warning system for early action and transboundary risk
management.

the establishment of the African Multi-hazard Early Warning
System in cooperation with RECs, Member States, the
African STAG and other partners.61
In October, following Anticipate and Act: The Stockholm
High-Level Meeting on Addressing the Humanitarian
Impact of Climate Change, Sweden, UNDRR and WFP
announced the establishment of the Horn of Africa
Partnership for Early Warning and Early Action. A key
feature of the project includes the development of a
dedicated Cell for risk information compilation at IGAD’s
Climate Prediction & Applications Centre.
Disaster risk reduction, development, and climate action
convergence in Africa through inter-agency country
development cooperation, and IBCs were mainstreamed.
UNDP and UNDRR prioritized collaboration in Ethiopia,
Malawi, Senegal, and Uganda, and are trying to strengthen
the collection of disaster loss data in the Sahel region.

In 2020, UNDRR and CDEMA/CARICOM worked closely
together to support countries to develop their national
disaster risk reduction strategies. Extra support was
provided to CEPREDENAC/SICA on the development of a
multi-hazard information platform, which helped countries
to identify COVID-19 response infrastructure and services
that were in the path of Tropical Storm Amanda in May
2020.

In the Asia and the Pacific region, UNDRR furthered the
disaster risk reduction agenda through its partnership with
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) and
other key regional organisations, and within the UN system.
Organisations have integrated disaster risk reduction
and the Sendai Framework into plans and activities, as
evidenced by new ASEAN regional work plans and in the
outputs of UN agencies that make up the IBCs.
In Asia and the Pacific, five IBCs were established as part
of UN development system reform. While co-leading the
IBC on Building Resilience, UNDRR is also ensuring that
disaster risk reduction and resilience is included in other
IBCs on climate mitigation, human rights and gender
equality, urbanization and human mobility, and inclusion and
empowerment.63 UNDRR also contributed to other regional
reform components such as knowledge management, and
data and statistics.

The cartoon above was produced as part of the Anticipate and Act: The Stockholm
High-Level Meeting on Addressing the Humanitarian Impact of Climate Change
event organized by the Government of Sweden, UNDRR and WFP.

60	 Note: the national officer who led the risk profiling, in close coordination with UNDRR, also led the development of the national strategy.
61	 UNDRR, Africa Road Map for Improving the Availability, Access and Use of Disaster Risk Information for Early Warning and Early Action, including in
the Context of Transboundary Risk Management (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/africa-road-map-improvingavailability-access-and-use-disaster-risk-information-earlys

46 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

In the Americas and the Caribbean region, UNDRR leveraged
four inter-governmental organisations (IGOs) to accelerate
action. All four key regional IGOs62 incorporated disaster risk
reduction policy into planning and committed to submitting
regional SFM reports in 2021. UNDRR worked with the
Latin American and Caribbean Working Group for Disaster
Risk Reduction and Disaster-Related SDG Indicators in
coordination with the ECLAC Statistics Conference of the
Americas to provide webinars and trainings for regional
participants.

“UNDRR’s support has
been a significant enabler
for the ASEAN Community
in developing this
comprehensive and robust
work programme for the next
5-years.”
His Excellency Kung Phoak
Deputy Secretary-General of ASEAN for
ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community

ASIA AND THE PACIFIC

The risk profiles of Angola, Tanzania and Zambia were
reviewed and validated by national authorities and endorsed
at the political level. Angola’s Chief Fire Commissioner
expressed the expectation that the profile drive future
development strategies, climate change adaptation and
disaster risk reduction measures across all sectors, as
well as cost-benefit analysis for disaster risk reduction
investments. Tanzania used information from the risk
profile in the situation analysis and sub-section on the future
impacts of climate change in its newly developed national
disaster risk reduction strategy.60
In February the AUC called for a continental early warning
and preparedness system for natural hazards through
the Africa Roadmap for Improving the Availability,
Access, and Use of Disaster Risk Information for Early
Warning and Early Action, Including in the Context of
Transboundary Risk Management. Endorsed by the AUC,
ACMAD, IGAD and the four target countries – Angola,
Ethiopia, Tanzania, and Zambia – it identifies activities
and practical recommendations aiming to improve the
availability, accessibility to and use of risk information at
the continental, regional, national and local levels. UNDRR
provided technical guidance and support throughout the
entire process, including organising study tours to Belgium
and Italy. As a result, Italy provided support to UNDRR for

AMERICAS AND THE CARIBBEAN

In addition, UNDRR continued to work with the Peer Support
Group of the UN’s Regional Collaboration Platform and
provided targeted technical guidance to 12 UNCTs on
ensuring quality assurance and programming support to all
stages of the development of Cooperation Frameworks.64

The 2020 Asia-Pacific Ministerial Conference on DRR
(APMCDRR)65 was postponed because of the COVID-19
pandemic; however preparations for the development
and launch of the Asia-Pacific Action Plan 2021-2024
commenced at the virtual Asia-Pacific Partnership for
Disaster Risk Reduction (APP-DRR) Forum.66 More than
175 participants from 30 Asia and the Pacific governments,
10 intergovernmental organisations, several UN agencies
and international organisations, and stakeholder groups
consulted on regional disaster risk reduction and thematic
priorities.67 In subsequent virtual thematic consultations
held in December, multiple stakeholders identified
actionable priorities and commitments for the Action Plan.
2020 marked the end of the implementation of the ASEANUN Plan of Action 2016-2020. The subsequent Plan of
Action 2021-2025 continues to prioritize disaster risk
reduction. UNDRR also contributed to the ASEAN Agreement
on Disaster Management and Emergency Response
(AADMER) Work Programme 2021-2025 in particular the
formulation of its monitoring and evaluation framework68
and the review process in the ASEAN-UN Joint Strategic
Plan of Action on Disaster Management.

62	 RMAGIR/MERCOSUR, CAPRADE/CAN, CEPREDENAC/SICA and CDEMA/CARICOM.
63	 During the year 22 UN entities joined the IBC on Building Resilience structured around four work streams:1) Integration of health emergencies in
disaster risk reduction; 2) Disaster and climate risk analysis; 3) Resilient recovery; and 4) Disaster and climate-related displacement.
64	 Bangladesh, Bhutan, China, Indonesia, I.R. of Iran, Lao PDR, Malaysia, Maldives, Myanmar, Timor-Leste, Thailand and Viet Nam.
65	See https://www.undrr.org/apmcdrr
66	See https://www.undrr.org/event/asia-pacific-partnership-disaster-risk-reduction-app-drr-forum-0
67	See https://www.undrr.org/news/asia-pacific-resolves-move-crisis-resilience
68	See https://asean.org/asean-adopts-new-disaster-management-framework-2021-2025/ and https://www.undrr.org/news/asean-achieves-milestonetowards-regional-disaster-risk-reduction

 | 47

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2

In the Pacific, UNDRR worked closely with the Pacific
Resilience Partnership on a monitoring, evaluation
and governance framework for the management of
information and knowledge for the Framework for Resilient
Development in the Pacific.

“The Africa Working Group on
Disaster Risk Reduction has
been playing an important
role, including in the face
of COVID-19 pandemic,
in advancing the disaster
risk reduction agenda for
resilience in the context of
the Sendai Framework for
Disaster Risk Reduction
2015-2030 and the Africa
Regional Strategy for
Disaster Risk Reduction to
contribute to the achievement
of the Agenda 2030: The
Africa We Want and the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable
Development. I am grateful
for the partnership we have
with UNDRR in this regard.”
H.E. Ambassador Josefa
Leonel Correia Sacko

At the country level, UNDRR ensured that disaster risk
reduction was included in UN joint work plans and
indicators, and provided technical input into activities. For
instance, in Lao PDR, support led to inclusion of disaster
risk reduction in the new 9th National Socio-Economic
Development Plan. In Thailand, UNDRR actively contributed
as a member of the first COVID-19 Intra-Action Review,
strengthening links between the Ministry of Health and
the Department of Disaster Prevention and Mitigation. In
addition, contribution was made to the Joint Work Plan
in support of Solomon Islands’ Graduation from the LDC
category.

ARAB STATES
In the Arab States, the Fifth Arab Partnership Meeting for
Disaster Risk Reduction was held virtually and attended by
15 Arab States, the League of Arab States, key members of
the five Arab Stakeholder Groups for disaster risk reduction
and representatives from ten UN regional offices. The
meeting showcased solid progress made by governments
and stakeholders in implementing the Arab Strategy for
Disaster Risk Reduction 2030 and its corresponding action
plan. There were calls for more collective and coordinated
efforts to advance regional disaster risk reduction. One of
the main outcomes of the meeting was to review Phase
I of the Prioritized Action Plan 2018-2020 for the Arab
Strategy for DRR 2030, and to begin Phase II (2021-2024). A
guidance note on integrating biological hazards is underway
and will be released in 2021.

The Arab States Regional Collaborative Platform continued
to deepen collaboration on sustainable development across
the UN system. UNDRR joined two regional IBCs, one on
urbanization, and one on climate change action and natural
resource management. For the regional IBC on urbanization,
UNDRR developed and shared a survey on preparedness and
response of cities to COVID-19 and organized the webinar
on Lessons Learned: Arab States Cities Preparedness and
Response to COVID-1969 with six UN partners.

In the Pacific, UNDRR continued to take a leading role in
the UN Pacific Strategy’s Outcome Group 1, which focuses
on disaster, climate and environmental resilience. Support
was provided to UNDP to strengthen UN agency support to
Pacific Island Countries in their development of Nationally
Determined Contributions (NDCs) by the December 2020
deadline. In addition, UNDRR represented the UNCT on
the advisory committee of a planned major programme of
support to Pacific SIDS and guided the Pacific Resilience
Partnership’s Technical Working Groups on displacement,
disaster risk finance, risk governance and localization.
UNDRR further actively engaged in the climate service user
forums for the South Asia Climate Outlook Forums (SASCOF
16 and 17) and contributed to strengthening translation
of early warning into early action through impact-based
forecasting.

© UNDRR

Commissioner for Agriculture, Rural
Development, Blue Economy and
Sustainable Environment, African Union
Commission

Meeting of the UNDRR Arab States
ARISE network.

69	 ESCWA, IOM, UNEP, UN-Habitat, UNOPS and WHO

48 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 49

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE
3

© CIAT/Neil Palmer

Catalyse action through countries
and partners for Sendai Framework
implementation

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

resilience, while the resolution on Comprehensive and
Coordinated Response to the COVID-19 Pandemic called for
the integration of risk reduction into recovery strategies.

3.1

POLICY COHERENCE, IN LINE WITH THE
SENDAI FRAMEWORK, FOSTERED ACROSS
INTERGOVERNMENTAL DECISIONS RELATED
TO CLIMATE ACTION AND SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT
2020 was a seminal year for intergovernmental
policy-setting on disaster risk reduction.
Intergovernmental decisions and high-level events
indicated the increasing political space given to
disaster risk reduction in deliberations and their
outcomes; the increasing understanding of the
policy-setting needed in response to the systemic
nature of risk; and the increasing recognition
of disaster risk reduction as essential to the
achievement of the 2030 Agenda.

Member States adopted at least 20 resolutions at
the GA and ECOSOC which integrate disaster risk
reduction and promote policy coherence with the
Sendai Framework in the implementation of the
SDGs and COVID-19 recovery, including several
of the year’s major intergovernmental decisions.
In the Declaration on the Commemoration of the
Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the UN, Member
States recognized the historic opportunity brought
by the pandemic and climate crisis to build back
better and to focus on risk reduction for systemic

Disaster risk reduction also featured more prominently than
ever before in the 2020 Quadrennial Comprehensive Policy
Review resolution, which ensures that the UN system’s
support for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda at the
country level will be risk-informed and aligned with the
Sendai Framework.
On climate change, UNDRR extended technical guidance
during deliberations of the Adaptation Committee, the LDC
Expert Group, the Standing Committee on Finance and
the Executive Committee of the Warsaw International
Mechanism for Loss and Damage, including the Technical
Expert Group on Comprehensive Risk Management.
Critical policy gaps in financing for disaster risk reduction
were addressed in the outcome document of the ECOSOC
Forum on Financing for Development and the Menu of
Options for the Consideration of Ministers of Finance on
Financing for the 2030 Agenda in the Era of COVID-19
and Beyond. Together they provide Governments, financial
institutions, development banks, and the UN system with
a clear medium-term agenda for policy development and
technical support in this area. This includes a call for the
development of national disaster risk reduction financing
strategies and instruments, for risk-informed investments,
and for the international and national financial institutions
and development banks to align their strategies and
activities with the Sendai Framework.

In support of these policy-setting achievements, UNDRR
was a member of the working group on Recovering
Better for Sustainability as part of the Heads of State and
Governments initiative on Financing for Development
in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond. UNDRR also plays
an instrumental role in the Inter-Agency Task Force on
Financing for Development. Mainstreaming a risk-informed
approach in the Integrated National Financing Frameworks
was a key outcome of this engagement in 2020.
As the focal point in the UN system for disaster risk
reduction, UNDRR provided substantive inputs and
data to 13 reports of the Secretary-General and led the
drafting of the annual report of the Secretary-General on
the implementation of the Sendai Framework, with input
from across the UN system. Policy recommendations
provided through these reports supported Member
States in their deliberations by highlighting bottlenecks,
gaps and challenges in implementation of the Sendai
Framework; underscoring the breadth of areas where
disaster risk reduction and the implementation of the
Framework enable progress; and offering guidance to
strengthen policy coherence with the implementation of key
intergovernmental agreements on sustainable development,
financing for development, climate action, biodiversity and
the environment, and countries in special situations.
This guidance was reinforced in virtual events targeted
at New York audiences, co-organized by UNDRR, Member
States, UN agencies, and civil society partners. For the
first time, disaster risk reduction was included in the
official programme of the High Level Political Forum on
Sustainable Development (HLPF), with a special session
on Protecting the Planet and Building Resilience. The GA
second committee also chose disaster risk reduction as the
topic for its only side event in 2020.

©CIFOR/Ollivier Girard

At UNFCCC CoP 25, UNDRR organized five events and
sponsored the attendance of youth activists. At 14 events
our staff highlighted how climate action can include
disaster risk reduction and advocated for coherence
between the Sendai Framework, the Paris Agreement, and
the SDGs. While CoP 26 was postponed, UNDRR contributed
to the UNFCCC Climate Dialogues held in November 2020,
with staff presenting information to governments at the
Structured Expert Dialogue on the second periodic review
of the long-term global goal and the progress towards
achieving it.

52 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

Collaboration with the Committee for Development Policy
(CDP) also bore positive results in 2020. The consideration
of disaster risk and risk reduction has been strengthened
across the CDP’s work and in the coordinated UN support
offered to countries graduating from the least developed
category.

 | 53

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

in order to inform health security and emergency planning,
joining forces to identify and share best practices and
lessons learned, and jointly promoting investments in health
security to build back better.

3.2

In support of UN system efforts to implement risk-informed
sustainable development and the Sendai Framework,
UNDRR supported the Interagency Group on Industrial and
Chemical Accidents in support of the ‘Convention on the
Transboundary Effects of Industrial Accidents’ and is linked
to the OECD Working Group on Chemical Accidents.72

STRENGTHENED COORDINATION AND
LEADERSHIP PROVIDED TO ALL UN SYSTEM
PARTNERS AT GLOBAL LEVEL TOWARDS
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK

Building coherence, work was started with
UNFCCC and interagency partners through the
Coherent Approach, to support 40 LDCs and SIDS
over the next three years in aligning policies,
financing, and implementation of climate change
adaptation and disaster risk reduction strategies.
16 countries were supported, mainly through
policy landscape maps and recommendations for
national action plans.
The UN development system reform offered
new opportunities to strengthen implementation
of the UN Plan of Action on DRR for Resilience,
particularly at the country level. In July, the
guidance note, Integrating Disaster Risk Reduction
and Climate Change Adaptation in the UN
Sustainable Development Cooperation Framework,
was made available to UN Resident Coordinators
and UNCTs. Supported by a training package, this
document outlines the impacts of climate and
disaster risks on the SDGs and suggests how
to risk-inform the UN Sustainable Development

Cooperation Framework throughout its lifecycle
and includes an annex on biological hazards.

COVID-19 exposed the need for a multi-hazard
approach to disaster risk reduction, and the
importance of mainstreaming health-related risks
in national disaster risk reduction strategies.
UNDRR worked with UN partners, in particular
WHO, to develop guidance, including the
forthcoming supplement on biological hazards
for the Words into Action Guidelines on national
disaster risk reduction strategies.
UNDRR and WHO strengthened collaboration
between Sendai Framework and International
Health Regulations (IHR) focal points. This
included joint situation analysis of systemic risks

70	 UNDRR, Scaling up disaster risk reduction in humanitarian action (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/
publication/scaling-disaster-risk-reduction-humanitarian-action
71	 The IASC Results Group 4 on Humanitarian-Development Collaboration, the HPC Steering Group, and the Global Cluster
Coordinators Group were engaged in different stages of the development and roll-out of the Checklist.

54 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

UNDRR partnered with the WMO through a Climate Risk
and Early Warning Systems (CREWS) initiative project to
develop a set of custom indicators for countries to measure
the effectiveness of their multi-hazard early warning
systems, related to Target (g) of the Sendai Framework.
LDCs and SIDS in the Caribbean, Pacific, and West Africa
regions are especially vulnerable to natural and biological
hazards. An expert working group was formed to review
indicator proposals, which will be translated into the six
official UN languages, and made accessible to all Member
States through the SFM system in 2021.74

UNDRR undertook global and regional
consultations in Asia, Africa and Arab States
with a wide range of humanitarian and
development partners, to develop a concrete set
of recommendations and a Checklist on Scaling
up DRR in Humanitarian Action70 which identifies
entry points for disaster risk reduction in the steps
of the Humanitarian Programme Cycle (HPC).
Pilot testing of the Checklist was undertaken in
collaboration with OCHA in Haiti and Pakistan,
to inform a final iteration of the Checklist to be
launched in 2021.71 In Pakistan the country team
is now considering vulnerabilities and risks within
humanitarian response planning to address root
causes of humanitarian needs.
© Unsplash/Kate Ferguson

Considerable progress was made in strengthening
coordination amongst UN system partners’
contribution to reducing risk and building
resilience, and in improving coherence between
the Sendai Framework, the Paris Agreement
and the SDGs. Notably UNDRR signed a
Joint Statement of Intent with UNDP and a
Memorandum of Understanding with UNFCCC to
strengthen coherent and coordinated disaster and
climate risk reduction.

UNDRR pushed ahead on a common statistical framework
for disaster-related statistics, in pursuit of scientific
rigour and common reporting.73 An Inter-Agency and Expert
Group on Disaster-related Statistics was approved by the
United Nations Statistical Commission (UNSC). More than
160 membership nominations from over 85 countries
and expressions of interest from an array of international
organisations were received. A Core Group has been
formed with UNDRR and UNESCAP as co-chairs, UNDRR
as secretariat and all regional commissions and the UN
Statistics Division as members.

Under the UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction
for Resilience75 UNDRR coordinates two mechanisms:
the high-level UN Senior Leadership Group on Disaster
Risk Reduction for Resilience and the UN Disaster Risk
Reduction Focal Points Group (Focal Points Group) at
the working level. Areas of collaboration include national
reporting on the Sendai Framework, achieving Target (e),
ensuring coherence with climate change and the SDGs, and
providing guidance and technical assistance to support
risk-informed and sustainable development, through riskinformed CCAs and Cooperation Frameworks.

72	See https://www.unido.org/sites/default/files/files/2019-05/Hirsh_Publication%207.pdf
73	 See E/2019/24-E/CN.3/2019/34, accessible at https://unstats.un.org/unsd/statcom/50th-session/documents/Report-on-the-50th-session-of-thestatistical-commission-E.pdf
74	 UNDRR is also further collaborating with WMO and the World Bank/GFDRR in the Caribbean, Pacific and Indian Ocean Commission Regions through
CREWS.
75	 UNDRR, United Nations plan of action on disaster risk reduction for resilience (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.preventionweb.net/
publications/view/49076

 | 55

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

UNDRR’s coordination of the DRR Focal Points Group
supports disaster risk reduction mainstreaming across the
UN system. Through the Focal Points Group, guidance on
reporting more than doubled the number of UN partners
submitting UN Plan of Action progress reports. This
provided a comprehensive overview of the UN system’s
support to advancing the Sendai Framework at country
level and underscored the extent to which UN partners had
supported countries in the development or updating of
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies (a total
of 66 countries) and supported 129 countries to develop or
update risk-informed development plans.
The UN Plan of Action progress report highlighted the need
to further systematise the efforts of the UN systems related
to gender sensitive disaster risk reduction. In response, the
UN SLG called for the development of a study on gender
and disaster risk reduction. Another area of improvement
revealed the lack of technological or biological hazard
consideration in national and local planning instruments,
leading to a recommendation to adopt a whole-ofsociety approach, and ensure multi-hazard risk sensitive
development and disaster risk reduction planning at all
levels.
UNDRR continued its coordination of the International
Recovery Platform (IRP), a thematic platform and joint
initiative of international organisations, national and local
governments, and civil society to promote building back
better. In 2020, the IRP issued a series of publications to
support pandemic recovery. The first in the series, Applying
IRP Disaster Recovery Tools and Guidelines to Pandemic
Recovery77 offered a compendium of relevant, existing
disaster recovery tools that could be immediately adapted.
The second, a ‘COVID-19 Recovery Brief,’78 outlined
principles and key actions for government and stakeholder

recovery plans. The third publication linked previous
recovery knowledge experience with emerging practices
from the current crisis to support recovery.79 In January, the
IRP organized the annual International Recovery Forum
to draw on good practice, strategy, and lessons learned,
around the theme of Building Back Better through Resilient
Infrastructure.

DISASTER RISK REDUCTION AND
DISPLACEMENT
To explore the risk factors that influence whether disaster
displacements become multiple and/or protracted, UNDRR
developed the publication Reducing the risk of protracted
and multiple disaster displacements in Asia-Pacific80
with the Overseas Development Institute (ODI). Further,
in Asia Pacific, through the Issue-based Coalition on
Building Resilience, UNDRR supported the organization
of a consultation with the High-Level Panel on Internal
Displacement, and a virtual briefing by the UN Special
Rapporteur on the Human Rights of Internally Displaced
Persons.
In the Americas and the Caribbean Region, UNDRR
collaborated with key IGOs, CAPRADE/CAN and
CEPREDENAC/SICA, in the dissemination of the Words
into Action on Disaster Displacement. In Africa, UNDRR
actively contributed to the Platform on Disaster
Displacement’s policy mapping to define how disasterinduced displacement is integrated in disaster risk reduction
strategies. UNDRR further encouraged consideration of
displacement in data disaggregation and in the development
of national disaster risk reduction strategies and plans.

76	 UNDRR, Progress report on the implementation of the UN plan of action on DRR for resilience (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.
org/publication/progress-report-implementation-un-plan-action-drr-resilience
77	 Applying IRP disaster recovery tools and guidelines to pandemic recovery (issued on 18 May 2020) is available at: https://www.preventionweb.net/
publications/view/71895
78	 The IRP COVID-19 Recovery Brief was downloaded more than 700 times in the first three months post-publication. It is available at: https://www.
recoveryplatform.org/assets/publication/Covid19_Recovery/COVID-19%20Recovery%20Policy%20Brief.pdf
79	 UNDRR, IRP Practical Lessons for Recovery from the COVID-19 Pandemic: Principles for Recovery (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.
preventionweb.net/publications/view/75428
80	 UNDRR, Reducing the risk of protracted and multiple disaster displacements in Asia-Pacific (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at: https://www.undrr.
org/publication/reducing-risk-protracted-and-multiple-disaster-displacements-asia-pacific

56 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

© UN Photo/Logan Abassi

The 5th meeting of the UN Senior Leadership Group on
Disaster Risk Reduction for Resilience (UN SLG) held in
July 2020 had the highest level of participation since the
group’s establishment. The 42 UN entities present reviewed
progress during 2019 towards the UN Plan of Action and
endorsed a set of nine recommendations to strengthen the
implementation of the UN Plan of Action and disaster risk
reduction in the context of the socio-economic response
to the global pandemic. The UN SLG also initiated a review
of key lessons from UN coordination mechanisms for
COVID-19 “to ensure a UN system approach to reducing risks
and building resilience to a broad scope of hazards, including
biological hazards.”76

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

PRIVATE SECTOR

3.3

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE SENDAI
FRAMEWORK AND COHERENCE ACROSS
AGENDA 2030 FACILITATED THROUGH THE
PROMOTION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF AN
ALL-OF-SOCIETY APPROACH
Throughout 2020 UNDRR boosted its engagement
across a broad variety of stakeholder groups
– the private and finance sectors, science
and technology, civil society organisations
and community-led organisations, indigenous
people, children and youth, parliamentarians and
regulators, in the delivery of new evidence as well
as advocacy at key global and regional meetings.
The UNDRR Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism
(SEM) was used to coordinate the wide variety of
stakeholder groups and support their engagement
in key policy processes, including the Financing
for Development Summit, HLPF, Financing for
Development in the Era of COVID-19 and Beyond
Initiative (FFDI) ministerial event, the World Urban
Forum, and CoP26 preparatory events. The SEM
grew to represent more than 600 members and
contributed to many different UNDRR-led efforts,
including an extensive global survey examining
the challenges that Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) face in building resilience.
To catalyse stakeholders and monitor action,
UNDRR continued to maintain its Sendai
Framework Voluntary Commitments online
platform.81 The platform allows stakeholders to
showcase their work, monitor their commitments,
track progress on deliverables and provide brief
periodical progress reports. It is a key tool to
promote accountability of non-state actors and
81	See https://sendaicommitments.unisdr.org/commitments

58 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

is the main reference point for information about
stakeholders’ efforts to implement the Sendai
Framework. Voluntary commitments grew
throughout 2020 and are key tools in engaging
local governments, the private sector, civil society
organisations and academia.
UNDRR continued to bring stakeholders together
to boost engagement in key areas, such as
the need for increased investment in resilient
infrastructure. This is done largely through
supporting efforts of the Coalition for Disaster
Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), including through
serving on its Executive Committee. In a virtual
seminar marking the one-year anniversary of the
establishment of CDRI, SRSG Mizutori presented
a five-point plan to boost, amongst other things,
private investment and regulatory frameworks in
pursuit of greater resilience in new and existing
infrastructure against climate and disaster risks.
The growth of membership in the Coalition in
the first year of its existence is a testament to
UNDRR’s ongoing advocacy efforts related to
CDRI.
While all stakeholder groups were supported
through the SEM, the following outlines
engagement with five key stakeholder groups in
2020: the private sector, parliamentarians, the
science and technology community, women,
persons with disabilities, and children and youth.

“As the Caribbean is prone
to the occurrence of various
types of hazards, UNDRR’s
guidance has been crucial
to enhancing our work
to support private sector
resilience whilst integrating
a prevention perspective,
our linkages, and improved
access to resources
and personnel leading
to successful trainings,
discussions and webinars
across the region. I believe
that this has been extremely
valuable in contributing to the
work of the ARISE networks,
Chambers of Commerce and
other support organisations
in the Caribbean and around
the world.”
Lizra Fabien
ARISE Network of Chambers of Commerce
from the Caribbean Community

The private sector is responsible for significant investments
worldwide, including new buildings and public services
such as utilities and transportation. The decisions made by
businesses have important consequences on whether they
increase or reduce risk drivers. In many cases, investors
have not paid attention to the growing exposure to hazards
and the threat to business resilience and competitiveness.
Worldwide, micro, small and medium enterprises account
for about 90% of businesses and more than 50% of
employment.82 COVID-19 has rocked the resilience of
businesses around the world, large and small. Smaller
businesses for example often lack capacity to form basic
business continuity and disaster risk management plans.
Protecting their investment makes good business sense for
individual enterprises and strengthens the entire economy.
The UNDRR Private Sector Alliance for Disaster Resilient
Societies (ARISE) expanded rapidly, now with 27 networks
globally, with notable growth in Africa and the Arab
States and expanded membership in the Americas and
Europe. ARISE has identified four priority areas, namely: to
promote the resilience of SMEs; risk informed investment;
incentivising disaster risk reduction through the insurance
industry; and resilient infrastructure.
UNDRR published Reducing Risk & Building Resilience of
SMEs to Disasters,83 and established new partnerships
with key actors from the financial sector, such as the
International Cooperative and Mutual Insurance Federation
(ICMIF). This support offers new guidance on risk-informed
investment and policy and legal frameworks that support
SME resilience. The insurance industry can play a pivotal
role in tackling the risks faced by SMEs, by helping them
absorb shocks, build assets, and manage and prevent risks.
The UNDRR-ICMIF partnership, launched in November 2019,
saw the collection of case studies in 2020 on the role of
insurance mechanisms in disaster risk reduction, and the
move from protection to prevention.
In Asia Pacific, to help the private sector build business
resilience, UNDRR worked with ARISE partners, UN partners,
Asian Disaster Preparedness Center (ADPC) and the
Resilience Innovation Knowledge Academy to create a
number of tools, including the COVID-19 Small Business
Continuity and Recovery Planning Toolkit,84 available in 11
languages, and which has been accessed more than 20,000
times since its publication in May. A dedicated webinar to
inform this topic was also organized that was attended by
743 participants.85

82	 See The World Bank, Understanding Poverty, Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) Finance, accessible at: https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/
smefinance
83	 UNDRR, Reducing Risk and Building Resilience of SMEs to Disasters (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/
resilience-smes
84	 UNDRR, COVID-19 Small Business Continuity and Recovery Planning Toolkit (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/bcp-ap
85	See https://www.undrr.org/event/webinar-business-resilience-face-covid-19

 | 59

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

In the Americas and the Caribbean, UNDRR provided
support to 19 national and two sub-regional ARISE networks
in Central America and in the Caribbean, promoting peerto-peer collaboration on business continuity risk mitigation,
and integrated multi-hazards approaches. Twelve webinars
were co-organised, in support of 15 ARISE networks86
and more than 30 events were directly conducted by
ARISE networks, in which good practices and tools were
shared among companies for better integration of risk into
business practices, such as the ARISE Mexico Resilience
Protocol in the context of pandemics87 and the ARISE
Colombia risk assessment tool, which provides guidance on
the development and implementation of Business Disaster
Risk Management Plans.88
In Central America and in the Caribbean four trainings
were co-organized with partners to build capacity and
disseminate tools for enhanced risk awareness and the
development of business disaster risk reduction plans,
with a special focus on SMEs. A study on Disaster Risk
Reduction and the Caribbean Private Sector: The role of
the Telecommunications sector in the context of COVID-19

was developed in cooperation with the ARISE national
networks.89 Through ARISE, the private sector has been
a thought leader with respect to resilient approaches to
COVID-19 economic recovery in the region.
In the Arab States, partners and stakeholders from the
government and private sector were engaged to elaborate
on risk management, the emergency response structure,
and business continuity through the Business Resilience in
the Face of COVID-19 Webinar led by ARISE, the National
Crises and Emergency Management Authority in the United
Arab Emirates and the National Technology Group from the
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
In Africa, UNDRR held a virtual Africa Private Sector
Engagement Meeting comprised of ARISE members from
Africa and potential members from the private sector.
UNDRR called for increasing private sector engagement
in disaster risk management coupled with investments
in disaster risk reduction, to build and foster business
resilience and prosperity.

SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Few other years have so profoundly demonstrated the value
of engaging the scientific community in planning for risk
reduction, creating resilience, and providing science and
technology-based solutions for disaster.
The formal partnership of UNDRR and the International
Science Council (ISC), to co-sponsor the Integrated
Research on Disaster Risk (IRDR), led to the launch of the
ground-breaking Sendai Hazard Definition and Classification
Review Technical Report. The report, containing 302 Hazard
Information Profiles, was developed in collaboration with
more than 800 partners from the UN and other science
institutes, including national scientific advisors and
the research funding community. It provides a critically
important common set of hazard definitions for monitoring
and reviewing the Sendai Framework implementation.90

In Asia Pacific, COVID-19 highlighted the importance of
the science-policy-practice nexus. The UNDRR-led AsiaPacific Science, Technology and Academia Advisory
Group (APSTAAG) was instrumental for the development
of guidelines on the integration of biological hazards into
disaster risk reduction and UN Cooperation Frameworks. In
October around 200 researchers and practitioners gathered
virtually for the 2020 Asia-Pacific Science and Technology
Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction,91 at which three
regional publications were launched: a regional framework
on NATECH (Natural Hazards Triggering Technological
Disasters) risks,92, the Status of Science and Technology
in Disaster Risk Reduction in Asia-Pacific 2020 report,93
and 30 Innovations linking disaster risk reduction with
sustainable development goals.94

86	 Webinars included the Trinidad and Tobago Resilience Conference, the Salvadorian Forum for Sustainability and the Colombian ARISE public private
partnerships meeting.
87	See https://arise.mx/en/lanza-arise-mx-protocolo-de-resiliencia-para-mipymes-ante-la-pandemia/
88	See http://portal.gestiondelriesgo.gov.co/Paginas/Herramienta-de-Autoevaluacion-Dto-2157-de-2017.aspx
89	 National ARISE networks were from the Dominican Republic, Saint Lucia and Trinidad and Tobago
90	 UNDRR, Hazard definition and classification review (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/hazard-definition-andclassification-review
91	See: https://www.undrr.org/news/undrr-convenes-asia-pacific-scientists-and-policy-makers-prevent-next-unexpected-disaster
92	 UNDRR, Asia-Pacific Regional Framework for NATECH (Natural Hazards Triggering Technological Disasters) Risk Management (Geneva, UNDRR,
2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/asia-pacific-regional-framework-natech-natural-hazards-triggering-technological
93	 UNDRR, Status of Science and Technology in Disaster Risk Reduction in Asia-Pacific 2020 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.
org/publication/status-science-and-technology-disaster-risk-reduction-asia-pacific-2020
94	 UNDRR, 30 Innovations linking disaster risk reduction with sustainable development goals (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.
preventionweb.net/go/70713

60 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

In the Americas and the Caribbean, the regional Scientific
and Technological Advisory Group for DRR (STAG Americas)
developed the briefing note: Science and Technology
for DRR in the Context of COVID-19,95 which highlighted
the contributions of the scientific community and the
technological developments to enhance comprehensive
risk management and the needs for a better understanding
of the systemic nature of risk in the region. The Group also
held an exchange meeting with the European STAG to share
views on the challenges and opportunities to disaster risk
reduction in the COVID-19 context.
In the Arab States, the Scientific and Technological Advisory
Group for Disaster Risk Reduction (Arab-STAG) developed
and shared with diverse partners a questionnaire on the
state of science and technology in disaster risk reduction.
Members of the Arab-STAG contributed to a variety of
UNDRR led processes, including the Expert Review Group
to support the development of the IRDR integrated agenda
until 2030.
In Europe, the European Scientific and Technological
Advisory Group (E-STAG), developed a position paper on
the role of science and priorities in Horizon Europe,96 the
EU’s research investment programme and policy guidance
papers for regional and national action on evolving wildfire
risk that led to legislative change.
In the Africa region in March, UNDRR participated in the
first AUC African Scientific and Technological Advisory
Group (Af-STAG) for Disaster Risk Reduction and Africa
Youth Advisory Board annual meeting, where by-laws, a
communications strategy and a roadmap were adopted. In
May, 156 academics and researchers discussed systemic
risk, the multi dimensionality of risk and the role of the
academia in evidence-based disaster risk reduction with
disaster risk reduction professionals from UNDRR and
Af-STAG to develop research contributions to reinforce
resilience in the face of COVID-19 and beyond.

“Disasters push millions of
people into poverty each year,
threatening progress, peace
and security, and costing
billions of dollars – and we
have the science that tells us
that climate change is going
to increase the frequency and
intensity of these disaster
events of natural origin...
This is why tools like this
Protocol are so valuable for
parliamentarians. It gives us
the information we need to
more effectively design and
approve laws – and hold our
governments accountable
to implementing those laws
– to ensure we are taking
measures for comprehensive
disaster risk reduction. Now
is the time to take action. Our
citizens expect this of us and
we need to deliver.”
Honourable Robert Nault
Member of Parliament of Canada and
President of ParlAmericas speaking about
the Parliamentary Protocol for Disaster Risk
Reduction and Climate Change Adaptation
developed by ParlAmericas and UNDRR

95	 UNDRR, UNDRR Americas & Caribbean COVID-19 Brief: Science and Technology for DRR in the Context of COVID-19 (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020).
Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/undrr-americas-caribbean-covid-19-brief-science-and-technology-drr-context-covid-19
96	 UNDRR, Evolving Risk of Wildfires in Europe (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/evolving-risk-wildfires-europethematic-paper-european-science-technology-advisory

 | 61

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

PARLIAMENTARIANS
Parliaments and parliamentarians are key to improving
disaster risk reduction governance. In April, UNDRR
partnered with the IPU, IFRC, and WHO to explore ways
to reduce risk, strengthen emergency preparedness, and
increase resilience in the face of the burgeoning pandemic;
more than 700 people represented 85 countries in the
discussions. UNDRR and the IPU began development of a
Parliamentarian Advocacy Toolkit on disaster risk reduction
to achieve the SDGs, identifying actions for parliamentarians
to take in accordance with their parliamentary functions,
to be published in 2021. To support parliamentarian action
through coherent disaster risk management and climate
change legislation, UNDRR worked closely together with
IFRC to review existing plans and legislation. This directly
contributed to the first Target of the Risk-informed Early
Action Partnership (REAP).97
Together with Parlamericas, UNDRR organised a meeting
for parliamentarians in the Americas to provide guidance
on how to support the development of legislation on
disaster risk reduction by integrating a multi-hazard
approach and a systemic risk understanding to key policies
that could support state institutions to reduce risk and
its cascading effects. As a result of this meeting UNDRR
contributed to the development of the Guide on Supporting
a Post-COVID-19 Green Economic Recovery,98 in which
a special section on how parliaments can apply the
Sendai Framework in their efforts to build back better was
developed.

©Pixabay/Wilfried Strang

Engagement continued with Members of the European
Parliament (MEPs) on key areas of EU legislation.
This included work on the revision of the Union Civil
Protection Legislation, which helps to coordinate disaster
preparedness and prevention activities of national
authorities and contributes to the exchange of best
practices. UNDRR engaged MEPs on topics of sustainable
finance, climate change adaptation and through a UNDRR
publication on Making Critical Infrastructure Resilient.99
At the national level, UNDRR, through the Kenya UNCT
Resilience Group, developed a common position in support
of the Government of Kenya’s draft 2020 National Disaster
Risk Management Bill. The inputs provided are being shared
with the Parliamentary committee. The Bill is expected to
reflect the mainstreaming of disaster risk reduction, climate
change and SDGs.

WOMEN’S LEADERSHIP AND GENDER
RESPONSIVE DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
UNDRR continues to work closely with partners to support
gender-responsive disaster risk reduction, including through
the collection, reporting and use of disaggregated data,
backed by the SRSG’s role as an International Gender
Champion. In 2020, UNDRR recruited the organization’s
first full-time Gender Advisor and launched the Women’s
International Network on Disaster Risk Reduction in
Asia-Pacific (WIN DRR), a three-year project that seeks to
promote women’s leadership in disaster risk reduction.
UNDRR closely supported the UN Women and the
Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI) on a Review of
Gender-Responsiveness and Disability-Inclusion in DRR
in Asia and the Pacific, and co-published with UN Women
Gender and disaster risk reduction and response in the
context of COVID-19, exploring links between gender
inequality, disaster management and COVID-19. Through a
project with UN Women, UNDRR provided support on gender
sensitive disaster risk reduction to Solomon Islands so that
national stakeholders can monitor the gender commitments
of the Sendai Framework.

“The Sendai Framework
refers to the role of
parliamentarians in terms
of how we can strengthen
legislative framework. What
we have to do now is make
sure that biological risks and
pandemics are covered.”
H.E. Saber Chowdhury
Honorary President, MP and IPU
Bangladesh

97	 As a member of the REAP Board and the lead focal point for the initiative for the Office of the UN Secretary-General, UNDRR contributed to all four
targets and provided comprehensive updates about the work of the initiative to the SG, as follow-up to the 2019 Climate Action Summit.
98	 See Guide on Supporting a Post-COVID-19 Green Economic Recovery, page 14, accesible at https://www.parlamericas.org/uploads/documents/
Green_Recovery_ENG.pdf
99	 UNDRR, Making Critical Infrastructure Resilient: Ensuring Continuity of Service - Policy and Regulations in Europe and Central Asia” (Geneva, UNDRR,
2020). Available at https://www.undrr.org/publication/making-critical-infrastructure-resilient-ensuring-continuity-service-policy-and

 | 63

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3

PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
Persons with disabilities are especially exposed to the
disruption of health, transport, educational, and critical
service networks. UNDRR produced an issue paper, People
with Disabilities in the Face of COVID-19, proposing
recommendations such as accessible communications
and information platforms, including Braille, sign language,
captioning and the use of geo-referenced data, as well as
the provision of more flexible social protection packages.
Across all regions UNDRR encouraged and provided
guidance on gathering and reporting disaggregated disaster
loss data, including related to persons with disabilities.
Several webinars focused on inclusion and accessibility,
including the Global Digital Summit on Inclusive
Management of Disaster and Disability Risk organized by
ONG Inclusiva, which reached more than 27,000 people.

© Adobe Stock/Satjawat

In the Africa region, UNDRR hosted special tsunami
awareness training in Madagascar for youth and volunteers
including youth representatives from the local deaf school.
In Asia, the Disability-inclusive DRR Network (DiDRRN)
produced a series of disaster preparedness quick guides
for persons with disabilities100 and actively engaged with
and trained members of the Pacific Disability Forum. In the
Americas and Caribbean, tools and guidelines on inclusive
local disaster risk reduction plans began in 2020, including
the Scorecard to promote the inclusion of people living with
disabilities at the local level, which will be applied in 2021
with 51 local governments in the greater metropolitan area
of Santiago, Chile.

100	 See Arbeiter-Samariter-Bund reports, accesible at http://www.asbindonesia.org/category-34-material-and-publication.html#

64 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

CHILDREN AND YOUTH
Children and young people are particularly vulnerable
to disaster impact. Disruptions to school, home life,
community bonds, and employment opportunities all
affect the long-term progression and stability of children
and youth. At the same time, youth are key advocates and
stakeholders in building more resilient societies. UNDRR
amplified the role and voice of the youth in understanding
and reducing disaster risk through the UNDRR Youth Action
plan, rolled-out globally in 2020. Key successes included the
launch of the Words into Action Guide, Engaging Children
and Youth in Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience
Building.101

In the Arab States, members of the Arab Disaster Risk
Reduction Children & Youth Group organized a range of
events, including the International Quiz Competition on
DRR and Towards a Safer and More Resilient Rainy Season
in Yemen. In partnership with the Arab Children & Youth
Stakeholder Group for disaster risk reduction, UNDRR
organised a webinar that showcased youth engagement
in supporting COVID-19 response and preparedness in
Lebanon.

In Africa, UNDRR teamed up with the Africa Youth Advisory
Board for Disaster Risk Reduction for a webinar titled
Youth Engagement on COVID-19 for the Africa We Want,
to reach new and diverse audiences; utilize social media
platforms to communicate and engage with youth across
the continent; identify youth led innovations to combat
COVID-19; and work with other youth networks across the
continent to promote a culture of safety and risk aversion
amongst youth. UNDRR partnered with UNESCO to develop
a Know DRR102 Smartphone Edutainment application for the
educational community and students in Africa.
In Asia and the Pacific, UNDRR worked with a children and
youth stakeholder group in a region-wide consultation of
10,000 of their peers on climate-related disasters, which
resulted in a report entitled Guardians of the planet: AsiaPacific Children and Youth Voices on Climate Crisis and
Disaster Risk Reduction.103 More than 2,800 people watched
the online launch webinar.
In the Americas and Caribbean, together with partners
(UNICEF, IFRC and UNESCO) and youth leaders, UNDRR
organized a youth forum and presented the results of a
survey on the impact of disasters and climate change
on young people in the region to a 300-strong youth
audience. Preparations began for a special session on
youth engagement for the Regional Platform 2021 and
participation of youth in the Caribbean Safe School
Initiative (CSSI) continued to grow, engaging 18 countries
and overseas territories across the greater Caribbean. In
the framework of CSSI a webinar on systemic risk and the
education sector was held to contribute to a multi-sectorial
approach for the implementation of safe school policies and
tools in the context of the COVID-19 crisis.

© Unsplash/Terry Boynton

In the Arab States, as part of the voluntary commitments
programme, The Arab Gender Equality & Women
Empowerment Group (GEWE) developed a Technical
Resource Repository; worked on a facility migration joint
research study; and contributed to Gender and Disaster
Risk Reduction: Good Practices and Lessons Learned.
UNDRR supported five Caribbean countries on the design,
development and implementation of their country work
programmes using a comprehensive disaster management
approach which ensured that the Strengthening HydroMeteorological and Early Warning Services Project was
gender transformative and inclusive of marginalized groups.

101	 UNDRR, Words into Action: Engaging Children and Youth in Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience Building (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at
https://www.preventionweb.net/files/67704_67704wiachildyouthdrr202067704undrr.pdf
102	See https://en.unesco.org/news/know-drr-smart-phone-edutainment-app
103	 Guardians of the planet: Asia Pacific Children and Youth Voices on Climate Crisis and Disaster Risk Reduction. Available at https://reliefweb.int/
report/world/guardians-planet-asia-pacific-children-and-youth-voices-climate-crisis-and-disaster. The consultation with youth to produce this report
was jointly organised by a group of partners that included the Asia Pacific Coalition for Safe Schools, Plan International, Save the Children, UNDRR,
the UN Major Group of Children and Youth, UNICEF, and World Vision International.

 | 65

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

ENABLER
1

© Save the Children/Marcos Villalta

Enhancing visibility of Disaster Risk Reduction
through global advocacy

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

ENABLER 1

ENHANCING VISIBILITY OF DISASTER RISK
REDUCTION THROUGH GLOBAL ADVOCACY

Early in the pandemic, the SRSG urged
governments and disaster management agencies
to prioritize biological hazards in their efforts to
implement Target (e). A focus on lessons learned
from the pandemic, both the failure to act on early
warnings and the resulting protection gap for
vulnerable groups, was a constant theme of the
SRSG’s advocacy.
On International Human Rights Day the SRSG was
one of many UN Principles mobilized in support
of the day. Her tweet on that day, which reached
a potential audience of over 124,000, stated:
“Nothing lays bare inequality and discrimination
like a disaster. #COVID19 confirms the truth of
this. We must learn the lessons of the pandemic
and place human rights at the heart of the
recovery. #StandUp4HumanRights”
104	 For UNDRR Words Into Action Resources see https://www.
preventionweb.net/sendai-framework/wordsintoaction

68 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

SRSG
engagement activity
Social Media
reached monthly

The Sendai Seven campaign focus for 2020
was Target (e) – “Substantially increase the
number of countries with national and local
disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020” –
highlighting the need to strengthen disaster
risk governance. In March, UNDRR launched the
#PreventionSavesLives campaign reflecting
largest disaster of the year and possibly the
century, COVID-19.

A GROWING APPETITE FOR RISK
(INFORMATION!)

LinkedIn
followers

A ‘virtual’ SRSG was in many places, increasing
engagement levels. Webinars and online events
were the new norm. In contrast to 48 speaking
events in 2019, the SRSG participated in more
than 100 events to advocate for disaster risk
reduction and resilience building. This output was
complimented by a range of 12 opinion pieces,
video messages, press releases, media interviews
and web stories, along with a monthly newsletter
update that began in May 2020.

The release of three new Words into Action
(WiA) guides enhanced visibility of disaster risk
reduction in the three areas: effective response; L
land use and urban planning; and the engagement
of children and youth. Three new multi-media
guides were launched, amplifying the use and
reach of the usual printed WiA resources.104

PreventionWeb
subscribers

In an exceptional year, the switch to virtual and
online stimulated greater engagement between
UNDRR and our stakeholders and partners.
UNDRR’s online presence was overhauled with the
launch of a new corporate website and the scaleup of communication across all social channels,
leading to an overall audience reach of 17 million
plus during 2020.

AWARENESS OF DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
THROUGH GLOBAL EVENTS FOR
BEHAVIOURAL CHANGE

year in the build-up to the October 13 International Day for
Disaster Risk Reduction, #DRRday, and World Tsunami
Awareness Day #TsunamiDay on November 5. Both days
were actively supported by the UN Secretary-General, who
delivered strong messages in support of the two days.

The SRSG’s year started with a visit to New Delhi for
consultations with the Indian Government on the newly
launched Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure
(CDRI) and ended with a well-attended webinar organized
with CDRI looking at the issue of lessons learned from
COVID-19 for public health infrastructure and global supply
chains.

The two days were supported by targeted content
production including webinars, social media assets and
the press launch of the report Human cost of disasters
2000-2019 which highlighted the fact that climate related
disasters have almost doubled by comparison with the
previous twenty years. This theme was taken up again
in UNDRR’s inputs for the launch and content of WMO’s
Climate Services Report 2020.

The SRSG also attended the World Urban Forum in Abu
Dhabi where she was a keynote speaker on urban resilience,
leading up to the launch of Making Cities Resilient 2030 in
October.
The 5th anniversary of the adoption of the Sendai
Framework triggered a significant response on social media
and was also the subject of a SRSG opinion piece and a
press release on disaster loss data gathered by the SFM.
The Target (e) theme for 2020’s International Day for
Disaster Risk Reduction (IDDRR) was announced by the
SRSG at the HLPF in July where she gave a speech on
water-related disaster risk reduction.

50
events
2019

100
events
2020

1 million +
70,000
250,000
2019

2,720
February 2020

80,000
January 2020

2020/2021

110,000
February 2021

180,000

The SRSG also gave her support to the No Natural
Disasters Campaign, another online success, arguing
that a natural hazard only becomes a disaster when it
combines with exposure and vulnerability to cause loss of
life, hurt and injury to people, along with economic loss.
She also addressed two new events, the Anticipate and
Act: Stockholm High-Level Meeting on Addressing the
Humanitarian Impact of Climate Change and the Reykjavik
Global Forum – Women Leaders 2020.

On World Tsunami Awareness Day, the UN Secretary-General
made an arresting link between #TsunamiDay and the
coronavirus: “Currently we are struggling with what some
describe as a tsunami of death and disease due to COVID-19.
This metaphor comes easily because living memory remains
strong of the worst sudden onset disaster this century,
the Indian Ocean tsunami of 2004 that took more than
227,000 lives.” That living memory came vividly alive in the
recollections of survivors and high-level representatives
from tsunami-affected countries in both the Third Annual
Tsunami Museum Conference and the Ready for the Next
Wave webinars organized jointly with IOC-UNESCO and
UNDP. In addition, together with UNDP a checklist for school
tsunami evacuation during COVID-19 was launched.105
Still images from ‘Tsunami ladies’,
documentary directed by Nicolás Kasakoff in 2020.

GLOBAL ADVOCACY CAMPAIGNS
The #PreventionSavesLives Campaign was launched on 15
April and was instrumental to significant growth on LinkedIn
which stood at 85,000 followers by year’s end. The sharing
of 215 PreventionWeb and UNDRR stories, 23 videos and
almost 3,000 social media posts supported the Campaign.
By the time the Campaign wound down in September it
had reached a potential audience of five million. It also
dovetailed with the #NoNaturalDisasters Campaign
supported by a SRSG opinion piece and a video which
received 31,000 views.
#ItsAllAboutGovernance was both the catch cry and
hashtag for much of UNDRR’s advocacy throughout the

December 2020

105	 UNDRR and UNDP, Tsunami Evacuation during COVID-19: A Guide for
School Administrators (Geneva, UNDRR, 2020). Available at https://www.
undrr.org/publication/tsunami-evacuation-during-covid-19-guide-schooladministrators

 | 69

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Recognizing the role of early warning and early action in
saving lives, UNDRR launched a new Media Saves Lives
campaign together with the World Broadcasting Union,
represented by the Asia Pacific Broadcasting Union,
the African Union of Broadcasting, the Arab States
Broadcasting Union and the Caribbean Broadcasting Union.
DIRAJ, a network of African journalists supported by UNDRR
grew substantially during 2020, with the establishment
of a new English and French-language version website.
Membership grew to 70 journalists across the continent and
more than 15 different training events were held.
UNDRR’s media seminal reference guide Disasters Through
A Different Lens, aimed at reporters and broadcasters to
increase their understanding of disasters and engagement
throughout their coverage, was completely revised.
An online portal was developed and a new journalists’
training course was rolled out in the Caribbean. The aim
of the project Media Saves Lives is to reach 100 public
broadcasting unions by the end of 2021, ensuring that
journalists are equipped to provide information before,
during, and after disasters, and that broadcasting unions are
supported to continue transmission during disaster events.

DISASTER RISK REDUCTION CHAMPIONS,
ACTORS AND INITIATIVES
Support for UNDRR’s work on raising awareness through
campaigns on COVID-19, disaster risk governance and
tsunami risk gained support from a broad range of actors
including many from within the UN family, including the
Secretary-General, António Guterres, the President of the
General Assembly, Volkan Bozkır, the Director General
of WHO, Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the WMO
Secretary-General, Petteri Taalas, UNESCO Director-General,
Audrey Azouley, and UNDP Administrator, Achim Steiner.

© Adobe Stock/Courage

UNDRR also cooperated closely with political
representatives from the Climate Vulnerable Forum and
the IPU including Saber Chowdhury, former President of
Bangladesh, and IPU Secretary-General, Martin Chungong.
Joint opinion pieces were produced with the International
Science Council CEO Dr. Heide Hackmann; UN-Habitat
Executive Director, Maimunah Mohd Sharif; World Food
Programme Executive Director, David Beasley; and Sweden’s
then Minister for International Development Cooperation,
Peter Eriksson.

Communications support was key to the successful launch
in October of MCR2030, the new phase of the Making Cities
Resilient Campaign, which becomes operational in 2021,
building on a decade of advocacy and capacity-building that
reached more than 4,000 cities. The MCR2030 is designed
to support mayors, local governments and urban planners
focusing on the development and implementation of
disaster risk reduction strategies.

INCREASING REACH AND PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT IN DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
THROUGH COMMUNICATION, MEDIA AND
MARKETING
As one Member State representative at the November
donors’ meeting noted: “UNDRR transformed the COVID-19
crisis into an opportunity to mainstream disaster risk
reduction in other policy frameworks and raise awareness
of risk.” UNDRR pivoted almost exclusively to online activity
for most of the year. The multiplicity of online events, both
COVID-19 and non-COVID-related, supported by real-time
communication through social media, has seen UNDRR’s
audience grow significantly to a potential audience reach of
over 17 million on Twitter alone and over one million visitors
for the first time to the corporate website.
Audience reach was nurtured throughout the year
by compelling campaigns around the themes of
#PreventionSavesLives, #NoNaturalDisasters,
#It’sAllAboutGovernance (DRRday) and #Plan2Survive
(TsunamiDay) fuelled by hundreds of social media posts
and original video material.
In support of these campaigns, UNDRR produced 75 videos,
1,800 posts across all social media channels, and 135
social cards carrying key campaign messages. UNDRR’s
corporate Twitter account grew from 68,300 to 77,000 and
potential audience reach grew from 10 million in 2019 to 12
million in 2020. The SRSG twitter grew from 7,000 followers
to 9,600 and potential audience reach grew from 1.4 million
in 2019 to 2.3 million in 2020.
PreventionWeb, the world’s only disaster risk reduction
knowledge platform, increased followers from an average
of 92,000 users per month in 2019 to 186,000 in 2020,
reaching 2.2 million users during 2020.

UNDRR’s influence in the private sector continued to expand
with the launch of a new website and communications
toolkit developed in conjunction with the ARISE Global Board
to guide how members can carry out communications
activities.

 | 71

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

ENABLER
2

© CIFOR/Aulia Erlangga

Strengthened organizational performance

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

ENABLER 2

ENHANCED EFFECTIVENESS, EFFICIENCY
AND QUALITY OF OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE, BASED ON APPROPRIATE
GENDER-SENSITIVE INTERNAL POLICIES,
STRUCTURE AND STAFFING
The year 2020 challenged UNDRR to adapt to
new working realities. A dedicated and resilient
team seized the opportunity to increase staff
development and learning, enhance the use of
technology, institute process improvements, and
monitor implementation.
To remain safe, UNDRR staff and their families
dispersed across 18 locations,106 had access to
timely information and were well connected with
their colleagues throughout the year. Working
virtually and under social distancing conditions
strengthened the sense of community across
offices and increased internal communication.

STRATEGIC PLANNING, MONITORING,
REPORTING AND EVALUATION
ENHANCED FOR IMPROVED WORK
PROGRAMME DELIVERY
In the early months of 2020, a mandatory,
organisation-wide training on project management
was implemented. As online platforms could
support more participants, more staff logged
in to UNDRR webinars or the scheduled training
activities.
Going virtual was not without its challenges.
Connectivity issues and high service provider
costs limited internet access in some regions,
and large virtual meetings restricted two-way
communication, requiring follow-up sessions.
There was an increased investment in content
production, and programmatic activities had to
be adapted wherever feasible, or postponed.
The support of the donor community in allowing
a more flexible use of resources has been
invaluable.

The investment in learning and new programme
delivery is testament that UNDRR’s programme
delivery is reflecting global demand for disaster
risk reduction knowledge. The ongoing planning
process for the Strategic Framework 2022-2025
will build on lessons learned, achievements, and
challenges from five years of Sendai Framework
implementation, to accelerate UNDRR’s
contribution to the UN Decade of Action.

FINANCIAL PLANNING, MANAGEMENT
AND MONITORING STRENGTHENED
FOR EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF
THE WORK PROGRAMME
Increased flexible resources meant the timely
allocation of funding for the pivot to virtual mode.
The selection process for implementing partners
with specialist knowledge improved independence
and accountability. The continued enhancements
to the global enterprise resource planning (ERP)
system in the area of voluntary funds management
allowed new data mining and timely analysis of
key performance indicators. Real time information
across multiple devices brought a novel approach
to monitoring programme implementation and
supported faster decisions.
The work programme of the year was adjusted to
match financial forecasts and prudent financial
management meant maintaining operational
reserves. The postponement of key regional
meetings and workshops into 2021 resulted in
under expenditure in 2020, which is expected to be
offset once the planned activities take place in the
future.

106	 Addis Ababa, Almaty, Ashgabat, Bangkok, Bishkek, Bonn, Brussels, Cairo, Dushanbe, Geneva, Incheon, Kobe, Manila, Nairobi,
New York City, Panama City, Suva and Tashkent.

74 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

SENDAI FRAMEWORK TARGET (E): 101 MEMBER AND OBSERVER STATES REPORTED
THE EXISTENCE OF A NATIONAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION STRATEGY IN THE
SENDAI FRAMEWORK MONITOR

BRUSSELS
NEW YORK

BONN
GENEVA
INCHEON
CAIRO

PANAMA CITY

*

ADDIS ABABA

KOBE

BANGKOK

NAIROBI

SUVA

UNDRR Headquarters
Regional office
Presence

1.	 The designations employed and the presentation of material on this map do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat
of the United Nations concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or
boundaries.
2.	 The maps used reflect the Member and Observer States’ self-defined geographic coverage for the purpose of reporting to the Sendai Framework Monitor.

HUMAN RESOURCES PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT ENHANCED FOR IMPROVED WORK
PROGRAMME DELIVERY
In a year like no other, staff welfare took centre stage as
the organisation pivoted to fulltime teleworking across all
locations in response to national policies on COVID-19.
Adherence to the corporate guidance on COVID-19
measures, detailed business continuity guidance, the
organisation-wide emergency-call tree systems and
activation of the Crisis Management Team ensured
that staff at all the 18 locations were well informed
and connected to colleagues. The organization also
implemented a series of webinars on work-life balance and
staff wellbeing to support colleagues during this challenging
period. The collective vigilance and duty of care to one
another prevented an outbreak of the pandemic within the
offices and the work of the organisation continued.
Significant value creation was realised through the all-staff
training activities in the areas of project management and
work planning, work-life balance, and wellbeing, through
focused topic-specific webinars. All staff completed

training on the implementation of the UN Disability Inclusive
Strategy (UNDIS) and disability inclusive disaster risk
reduction, developed with the World Institute for Disability,
generating a list of activities to be undertaken in 2021.
These initiatives have led to an increased understanding
of the programmatic priority and improved productivity.
Practical integration of geographic diversity, inclusiveness,
and multilingualism in the work programme activities as
well as the establishment of working groups dedicated to
topics identified through the UN Staff Engagement Survey
are some notable achievements. UNDRR has significantly
improved the completion rate of mandatory learning
programmes and the timely completion of performance
appraisals in compliance with the guidelines. Gender
parity across the organization was maintained and further
improvements to geographic diversity are anticipated as the
activities under the new action plan are implemented.

 | 75

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

ENABLER 2

ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
STRENGTHENED TO EFFECTIVELY
ANTICIPATE AND MITIGATE WORK
PROGRAMME DELIVERY RISKS

“Better disaster resilience
leads to better response to
global pandemics, such as
COVID-19. The world has
been stuck in the “disaster –
response – recover – repeat”
cycle for too long. It is critical
that we start investing in
preventing the risks. This
applies to our own countries
as well as globally, because
the fact is that nothing
eliminates development more
effectively than pandemic
and other disasters.”
H.E. Kirsti Kauppi

A centrally developed suite of online tools, dashboards
and increased data mining provided invaluable information
for increased monitoring and timely decisions. Regular
updates of the key performance indicators associated
to the delegation of authority ensured close attention to
implementation trends and adherence to the regulations
and rules. UNDRR reviewed in 2020 the various internal
controls of its operations and ensured that appropriate
remediation plans are in place to support the preparation of
the Statement of Internal Control required at the entity level
by the accounting standards.
Enhanced understanding of corporate and operational risk
from the trainings and webinars allowed for the UNDRR Risk
Register and the Risk Treatment Plan to be comprehensively
reviewed and updated. A more rigorous due diligence
process closely aligned to the Global Compact Principles
and the procurement of the Rep Risk gives access to a
comprehensive database on environmental, social and
governance (ESG) information and business conduct
risk allowing for independent evaluation of potential
partnerships.

© Unsplash/Michał Parzuchowski

Ambassador and PR, Permanent Mission of
Finland to Geneva

76 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

© CIFOR/Ollivier Girard

DONOR
OVERVIEW

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

DONOR OVERVIEW

DONOR OVERVIEW
In December 2020, Member States reiterated
the importance of funding UNDRR in General
Assembly Resolution 75/216, paragraph 46, which:
“Recognizes the continued importance of voluntary
funding, and urges existing and new donors to
provide sufficient funding and, where possible,
to augment financial contributions to the United
Nations trust fund for disaster reduction to support
the implementation of the Sendai Framework,
including through unearmarked and, where
possible, multi-annual contributions.”
Throughout the year donor partners responded
to this call, recognising the critical role of UNDRR
and disaster risk reduction in the context of the
COVID-19 pandemic. Donors provided 98% of
UNDRR’s USD 48.74 million Work Programme
in 2020 which included an increase of USD
1.45 million due to the urgent needs to address
COVID-19, in total, providing USD 47.7 million
in 2020. By end of 2020, USD 10.11 million was
pledged for 2021 onwards.
The flexible nature of unearmarked core funding
is particularly important to UNDRR, given the
reliance on extrabudgetary support (99.9% funded
through extrabudgetary resources). Unearmarked
donors continued to increase their support for
UNDRR, providing USD 22 million in 2020 (46%
of funding received). Multi-year funding also
enables UNDRR to better plan and leverage funds
and several donors contributed via multi-year
agreements to UNDRR’s 2021 funding.107

2020 INCOME BREAKDOWN

The Governments of Canada and Italy expanded
UNDRR’s funding base in 2020, and Italy also
joined the top five donors to UNDRR who provide
more than USD 4 million per year: Sweden,
Germany, Japan, Norway and Italy (in descending
order).
Member States and partners supported UNDRR in
its work through donating their time and expertise.
In-kind professional support, such as Junior
Professional Officers (JPOs) and UN Volunteers
was provided by the Governments of Finland,
France, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Sweden,
Switzerland, and the United States of America and
were critical assets that enabled UNDRR to deliver
its mandate. UNDRR also made a commitment in
2020 to seek financial support for JPOs from UN
under-represented countries, particularly from the
Global South. Throughout the year UNDRR also
facilitated south-south cooperation and triangular
cooperation and knowledge sharing through
trainings, workshops, and a variety of virtual and
in-person platforms.
UNDRR engaged actively with Member States
throughout 2020, regularly consulting through
the Geneva-based UNDRR Support Group, the
New York-based Group of Friends, and two donor
meetings held virtually to discuss progress in
implementing its biannual Work Programme
2020-2021 and preparations for the new Strategic
Framework 2022-2025 and corresponding Work
Programme.

46%

“The Covid-19 pandemic
showed us the human and
economic costs of a lack
of preparedness. The close
collaboration between the
EU and UNDRR is ever more
important in the efforts
to build back better from
the COVID-19 pandemic.
However, building back better
will not be enough. We also
need to build back greener
to make communities and
societies less vulnerable to
future shocks and achieve a
more inclusive, resilient and
greener COVID-19 recovery.”

54%
Earmarked
funding
Unearmarked
funding

2020 WORK PROGRAMME
EXPENDITURE BREAKDOWN

21%

5% 12%
SO1
SO2

15%

47%

SO3
E1
E2

Mr. Janez Lenarčič
European Commissioner for Crisis
Management

2020 EXPENDITURE BREAKDOWN
BY REGION

35%

21%
7%
8%

15%

14%

Africa
AmericasCaribbean
Arab States
Asia-Pacific
Europe
Global

107	 Member States: Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland and the European Commission and CREWS
Initiative (funded by Australia, France, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom).

80 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

 | 81

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

DONOR OVERVIEW

UNDRR 2020 DONORS

1 January 2020 - 31 December 2020

USD

Sweden 3

9,975,526

Germany 1

5,683,930

Japan 3

5,288,154

Norway 2

4,664,470

Italy 1

4,606,903

United States of America 1

3,369,453

Republic of Korea 1

2,588,102

Finland 2

2,280,519

Switzerland 3

2,090,911

European Commission 5

2,022,774

Australia 1

1,986,091

CREWS 4

1,666,160

Czech Republic

2

428,247

China 2

299,980

Luxembourg 2

294,118

Canada 1

177,136

Spain 1

119,474

UPS Foundation 1

75,000

UNDP 1

52,920

Kazakhstan 1

50,000

UN Women 1

45,270

France 2

10,917

GRAND TOTAL

47,776,055

82 | UNITED NATIONS OFFICE FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

“We need to prepare
ourselves better for the next
climate-related humanitarian
crises by anticipating,
reducing and managing
risk. And we need to
respond swiftly, intelligently
and efficiently to the
humanitarian consequences,
be it hunger or forced
migration. We need to both
Anticipate and Act.”
H.E. Per Olsson Fridh
Minister for International Development
Cooperation, Sweden

1	 Earmarked contribution
2	 Unearmarked contribution
3	 Combination of unearmarked and
earmarked contribution
4	 Donors to CREWS: Australia, France,
Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Switzerland, United Kingdom
5	 Earmarked contributions from two
Directorate Generals (INTPA and ECHO)
6	 Earmarked contributions from two
Directorate Generals (DEVCO and ECHO)
Note: IPSAS compliant audited financial
statements will be published upon availability
on: https://www.undrr.org/about-undrr/
funding

© Unsplash/Önder Örtel

GOVERNMENTS

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction

United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction
9-11 Rue de Varembé
CH 1202 Geneva, Switzerland
Telephone: +41(0)22 917 89 07-8
E-mail: undrr@un.org
Website: www.undrr.org

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

