Annual Report

2018
For every child, every right

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Data in this report are drawn from the most
and other United Nations agencies, annual
reports prepared by UNICEF Country Offices
and the Annual Report of the Executive
Director of UNICEF presented to the
Executive Board, 11–13 June 2019.
For any corrigenda found subsequent to
printing, please visit our website at
www.unicef.org/publications
ISBN: 978-92-806-5032-7
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
June 2019

FRONT COVER: Jasmin, 7, washes her
clothes in the sea near the Shamlapur
refugee camp. She is one of many
thousands of Rohingya who have sought
refuge from Myanmar in Cox’s Bazar
District, Bangladesh.
© UNICEF/UN0203392/Sokol

PAGE 3: UNICEF Executive Director
Henrietta H. Fore joins children in their
classroom during a visit to the Alexandria
School in a rural area of northern Hama,
Syrian Arab Republic.
© UNICEF/UN0264631/Al-Droubi

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual Report

2018
For every child,
every right

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

UNICEF Annual Report 2018
MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

On a clear, cold morning in January 2018, I walked
through the front door of UNICEF headquarters in New
York to take up my new role as Executive Director. I felt
privileged to begin leading an organization with a noble
mission: protecting the rights of every child. But I wanted
to do something more. I wanted to open up opportunities
for every child.
I knew there was no more important cause than
children.
As it happened, 2018 would be a uniquely challenging
year for the world’s children, and for UNICEF. It was also
a uniquely rewarding one. I am enormously proud of the
results we achieved – and the values we have worked
to uphold – together with our partners, our generous
supporters, our dedicated staff and the children and
young people we serve.
Some of the most sobering moments of 2018 came
during my visits to UNICEF offices at the centre of several
of the world’s worst protracted conflicts. In Mali, South
Sudan, Syria and Yemen, I saw the terrible toll of those
conflicts on children, who always pay the highest price
when crisis strikes.
The year brought a series of devastating natural disasters,
as well. In all, UNICEF responded to nearly 300 humanitarian emergencies in 90 countries throughout 2018.
When UNICEF responds to emergencies and
development challenges – in wartime and in peace – we
strive to reach children in every context and every
circumstance. Our goal is to save and improve the lives of
the world’s youngest citizens, no matter where they live.

2

and medical care they need. The families reunited with
children who have been recruited into armed forces and
armed groups. The refugee children finding the protection
and opportunities they could not find at home.
The often painful stories of the children and young people
I met on my travels in 2018 confirmed, for me, that we
have much more work to do. I also heard many stories of
hope – stories about the tangible impact made by UNICEF
and our partners on the ground.
Like the story of Fatima, a young girl I met at a
psychosocial support centre in Aden, Yemen. Fatima
talked to me about fleeing violence in her hometown. She
said she was now learning to reconnect with her peers
and showed me a drawing she had made. It was a picture
of a girl sitting in a park on a sunny day.
Staff members at the UNICEF-supported centre recalled
that when Fatima first arrived, she drew pictures of guns
and blood.
The dramatic turnaround in Fatima’s perspective reflected
the very outcome we want for all children caught in crisis,
indeed for every child: a sense of safety and well-being in
the present, and hope for the future.
Beyond humanitarian action – which accounted for about
half of UNICEF’s total expenses in 2018 – we operate
ongoing programmes in more than 190 countries and
territories to build sustainable improvements in children’s
health, nutrition, education, protection, and water,
sanitation and hygiene.

We are immunizing children against disease. Delivering
safe water and nutrition. Providing access to education
and cash transfers to help families cope. Working with
communities to rebuild hospitals, schools, and water and
sanitation systems.

Over the decades, UNICEF and our valued partners have
contributed to dramatic progress in newborn survival and
young child nutrition, to cite just two critical indicators.
We have also begun to make advances in early childhood
development, based on a growing consensus about the
long-term, positive impact of learning and stimulation in
the early years.

I have seen this work reflected in the faces of the children
and families UNICEF has reached. The children proudly
overcoming obstacles to go to school. The parents
relieved that their children are finally getting the education

In 2018, we sharpened our focus on the second decade
of life, when children make the transition to adolescence
and young adulthood. Speaking with these young
people – hearing their voices and being inspired by their

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

vision – has been the best part of my job. But I have also
heard their concerns about the future.

young people – even as these partners strive for greater
corporate social responsibility and look for future talent.

They worry that they will not get the education or
skills they need and will not find a job. They worry
about violence at home, online, at school and in their
neighbourhoods. And girls, in particular, worry about
the discrimination and violence they continue to face –
simply because they are girls.

None of our current efforts and future aspirations would
be possible, of course, without the commitment, skill
and resilience of UNICEF’s staff around the world. The
women and men who work for UNICEF – particularly in
our field offices – can face enormous obstacles, including
challenges to their own safety, and to their personal and
family lives. They deserve not only gratitude for a job well
done, but also strong support to help them through any
hardships they may face.

As a global community, we cannot ignore the voices of
young people. After all, they hold our shared future in
their hands.
With those high stakes in mind, one of our signature
efforts in 2018 was the launch of Generation Unlimited.
Through this global initiative, UNICEF has joined with our
partners – and with young people themselves – to reach
an ambitious but, we think, achievable goal: By 2030,
we want every young person in school, training or ageappropriate employment.
To that end, the partnership is gathering cutting-edge
solutions that will give all young people – including the
disadvantaged and marginalized – a fighting chance to
meet the 21st century challenges they face. The next
step will be to seek wider support from the public and
private sectors for implementing innovative solutions at
scale and reaching more young people in more countries
and communities.
Much support, we believe, can come from private-sector
partners who recognize the business opportunity
inherent in a vast global demographic of 1.8 billion

In 2018, UNICEF took significant steps to provide such
support by fostering a culture driven by our core values
of care, respect, integrity, trust and accountability. These
efforts are increasing in 2019.
The year 2019 marks the 30th anniversary of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child – and UNICEF
remains committed to realizing the rights and meeting the
changing needs of the world’s children and young people.
We are also committed to opening up opportunities for
all. Today, even more than on that winter’s day when it
became my turn to lead this extraordinary organization,
I am confident that we will succeed.

Henrietta H. Fore
UNICEF Executive Director

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Contents
Message from the Executive Director	

2

Introduction	

6

Continued progress	
Challenges to overcome	
Delivering on the Strategic Plan	
Looking ahead	

Goal Area 1: Every child survives and thrives	

12

Health	
Immunization	
Nutrition	
HIV and AIDS	
Early childhood development	
Humanitarian settings	
Capacity building	

Goal Area 2: Every child learns	

20

Learning outcomes	
Equitable access to education	
Skills development	
Education in emergencies	
Global commitment	

Goal Area 3: Every child is protected from
violence and exploitation	
Protection against violence and sexual exploitation and abuse	
Humanitarian action	
Child marriage and female genital mutilation	
Justice issues	
Strengthening systems	
Global commitment	

4

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

26

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

Goal Area 4: Every child lives in a safe and
clean environment	

32

Water, sanitation and hygiene	
Disaster risk reduction, peacebuilding and urban programming	
Climate change, energy and the environment	

Goal Area 5: Every child has an equitable
chance in life	

38

Social protection	
Adolescent development	
Gender equality	
Children with disabilities	
Global commitment	

Humanitarian Action	

42

Focused response	
Linking development and humanitarian action	
Global commitment	

Gender Equality	

46

Mainstreaming gender equality	

Communication for Development	

50

Benchmarks and results	
Leadership and advocacy	

Partnership and Stewardship	

54

New funding mechanisms	
Engagement with businesses	
Strategic procurement	
Innovation and research	
Living UNICEF’s values	

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

FOR EVERY CHILD RESULTS

UNICEF plays
a vital part in
achieving this
progress. In 2018,
the organization
provided support for:
•	 Birth in health facilities for 27 million
babies
•	 Three doses of the Pentavalent
(five-in-one) vaccine for an estimated
65.5 million children
•	 Access to safe drinking water for
43 million children in emergencies
•	 Education support for more than
12 million children
•	 Life-saving treatment for 4 million
children with severe acute
malnutrition
•	 Programmes in critical skills for
learning, personal empowerment,
active citizenship or employability
for about 2 million children and
adolescents
•	 More than 16 million children’s births
registered in 49 countries
•	 Cash transfer programmes that
reached more than 38 million children
– including over 7 million children in
humanitarian settings.

RIGHT: Cameroonian children play in the
village of Adoum Soin. The implementation
of a new point-of-care early infant diagnosis
system has the potential to promote an AIDSfree generation in Cameroon.
6
© UNICEF/UN0255822/Schermbrucker

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

UNICEF Annual Report 2018

Introduction
In 2018, UNICEF embarked on a new chapter with a
new plan.
Anchored in the Convention on the Rights of the Child,
the UNICEF Strategic Plan, 2018–2021 sets ambitious
goals aimed at contributing to the achievement of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development – especially
its vision of a world in which no one is left behind. The
driving focus of the Strategic Plan is achieving results
that realize the rights of every child, particularly the
most disadvantaged. It guides UNICEF’s efforts aimed
at making sure that every child survives, thrives and
reaches his or her potential.
The Strategic Plan is also rooted in UNICEF’s core
values: care, respect, integrity, trust and accountability.
It leads the way for UNICEF to maintain and strengthen
its role as an effective, efficient and compassionate
organization for children and young people.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#WorldChildrensDay
In 2018, a total of 178 countries
took part in UNICEF’s annual
‘for children, by children’
moment: World Children’s Day,
20 November. Activities linked
to the day engaged millions
of supporters and followers,
including more than 140,000
who signed UNICEF’s secondever global petition for children’s
rights. The World Children’s
Day video – ‘Go Blue’ – featured
UNICEF’s youngest-ever Goodwill
Ambassador, Millie Bobby Brown,
and garnered nearly 16 million
views online. And one corporate
partner, Johnson & Johnson,
used the day to announce a
new US$10 million commitment
to support UNICEF’s health
programmes.

Continued progress
Around the world, many key aspects
of child health and well-being continue
to improve. More children survive
beyond their first five years of life and
fewer are stunted by malnutrition.
Learning outcomes have improved
in 67 per cent of countries where
UNICEF works, and access to safe
drinking water is on the rise. In
the past decade, 25 million child
marriages were prevented.
UNICEF’s work focuses on solutions
to the challenges children face in their
daily lives. Some of these solutions
come in the form of vaccines,
nutrition supplements, training for
community-based health workers
and learning materials for students.
Some are solutions that work by
strengthening national and local
systems to better provide essential
services for children and their
families. Others are solutions that
seek to empower children and young
people to take charge of their futures
– and ours.
Partnerships remain critical, and
UNICEF continues to collaborate
closely with governments, donors,
businesses, civil society organizations,
and children and young people. In 2018,

UNICEF expenditure, 2018
(in millions of US dollars)
BUDGET CATEGORY
Development

5,351

Programme

Every day, 15,000 children die, mostly
from preventable causes. As the
number of malnourished children who
suffer from stunting falls, the number
of overweight children rises – and
more girls and women of reproductive
age suffer from anaemia.
Around the world, nearly 60 per cent
of primary school-aged children fail to
meet minimum learning standards, and
as of 2017, only half of all pre-primary
school-aged children were enrolled
in pre-primary education. As a result,
175 million children globally did not
benefit from early structured learning.
Unless the rate of child marriage
declines faster globally, more than
150 million girls are likely to be married
as children. For many, it will mean
an end to their education and a lost
opportunity to achieve their dreams.

150

Management

373

United Nations development coordination
Special purpose (including capital investment)
Other (including private fundraising and partnerships)

8

Challenges to overcome
Despite the progress already made,
much work remains if the Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) are to be
reached by the 2030 deadline. Many of
the world’s children remain left behind.

5,201

Development effectiveness

Total expenditure

for example, UNICEF helped launch a
new partnership, Generation Unlimited,
which connects secondary-age
education and training to employment
and entrepreneurship for adolescents
and young people. The partnership
brings together the private and public
sectors, civil society and youth to
co-create large-scale breakthroughs
that can secure a better future for the
world’s 1.8 billion young people.

7
23
192
5,946

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

NOTE: UNICEF expenditure by budget
categories as shown in this table is
presented on a modified cash basis
and reflects cash disbursements and
internal obligation documents (such as
purchase orders) created in 2018.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Direct programme expenses, 2018
(in millions of US dollars)

Regular resources

Total

Other resources (regular)
Other resources (emergency)

$5,394
million

by region

Interregional
49.8

by goal area

112.8
28.9

Latin America and the Caribbean

Fair chance
102.9

45.1

201.0

94.0

123.2

38.6

Europe and Central Asia

Learning
149.7

27.4

508.7

102.0

533.6

180.8

Asia

Environment
171.4

242.8

341.3

525.9

498.7

152.2

Middle East and North Africa

Protection
172.2

44.5

254.8

402.5

231.1

904.8

Sub-Saharan Africa*

Survive and thrive
352.8

539.5

1,160.1

1228.6

592.8

674.1

0

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1,000 1,100 1,200

millions of US dollars

0

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1,000 1,100 1,200 1,300

millions of US dollars

* Programme expenses for Djibouti and Sudan are included under sub-Saharan Africa.
NOTE: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Delivering on the Strategic Plan
Against this backdrop, UNICEF has begun delivering
on its Strategic Plan, which identifies five goal areas for
achieving results across thematic areas.

The Strategic Plan also identifies two cross-cutting
areas: humanitarian action and gender equality.
And it highlights the importance of communication
for development. In addition, the plan outlines eight
change strategies and four organizational enablers
to improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness
of UNICEF’s programmes and partnerships.

Goal Area 1
Every child survives and thrives involves thematic
work in health, nutrition, HIV and AIDS, and early
childhood development.

Looking ahead
UNICEF Annual Report 2018 highlights UNICEF’s
drive for results, informed by its core values and
shaped by its Strategic Plan, throughout the year in
review. But this report also looks ahead.

Goal Area 2
Every child learns focuses on education, from
pre-primary through skills development for
young people.

Goal Area 3

As the world prepares to celebrate the 30th
anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the
Child in November 2019, the report demonstrates
the successes achieved and the challenges that
continue to threaten the rights, lives and futures of
children and young people.

Every child is protected from violence and exploitation
encompasses UNICEF’s work for and with migrant,
refugee and displaced children, and its efforts on
child marriage, female genital mutilation and the
multiple kinds of violence children face.

Goal Area 4

With this historic marker on the horizon, UNICEF
and its partners have an opportunity to do more
– to advocate for children’s rights and move the
world closer to the goal of a fair chance in life for
every child.

Every child lives in a safe and clean environment
features UNICEF’s work in water, sanitation and hygiene,
and its efforts on climate, pollution and urban issues.

Goal Area 5
Every child has an equitable chance in life is a clear
manifestation of UNICEF’s commitment to leave no
one behind. It involves UNICEF’s efforts to address
extreme poverty and discrimination, and provide
support for adolescents and children with disabilities.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Accelerating results

UNICEF and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
have worked together for almost two decades to
achieve shared goals, including child survival and
global polio eradication. As the relationship has
evolved and strengthened, both organizations have
come to recognize the potential to do much more for
the world’s children. At their Leadership Meeting in
September 2018, UNICEF and the foundation agreed
on a new partnership strategy aligned with the
Sustainable Development Goals. Specifically, they
agreed to explore new cross-cutting approaches
to ending preventable maternal and child deaths;
accelerating gains on maternal and child nutrition;

10

enhancing children’s cognitive development
outcomes; and improving adolescent health and
well-being.
UNICEF partner ARM helped accelerate innovations
for children in 2018 with the release of Tech Bets for
an Urban World – groundbreaking new research that
reveals six areas in which technology investments
can change up to 2 billion lives in emerging cities.
The partnership with ARM has also benefited
children and youth through joint initiatives such as
the Wearables for Good Challenge and U-Report,
UNICEF’s social messaging tool for young people.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

A boy plays and learns at an early childhood development centre in Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
The UNICEF-supported centre is housed in a ger, a traditional Mongolian living structure.
The ger centres, which are linked to kindergartens, have been a key factor in increasing the
country’s capacity to reach children with quality learning and stimulation in the critical
early years.
© UNICEF/UN0243334/Pasquall

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
worked to achieve
outcomes set forth
in Goal Area 1 of
its Strategic Plan in
126 countries.
UNICEF and partners provided support for:

•	 27 million births in health facilities
in countries with high neonatal and
maternal mortality
•	

65.5 million children who received three
doses of the Pentavalent vaccine, which
includes the vaccines for diphtheria,
tetanus and pertussis (DTP/Penta)

•	

5.5 million children suspected of having
pneumonia who received antibiotics

•	

More than 475,000 children in
emergency situations who benefited
from ECD programmes

•	

Life-saving treatment in 73 countries
for more than 4 million children with
severe acute malnutrition – 82 per cent
of whom fully recovered

•	

New HIV point-of-care testing
platforms in 20 countries in Africa.

The total Goal Area 1 expense was
US$2.1 billion.

RIGHT: Tania Begum holds her infant son, Alif,
who is receiving medical attention for a cold,
an eye infection and jaundice at a special-care
newborn unit supported by UNICEF in Bangladesh.
12
© UNICEF/UN0233018/Mawa

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Goal Area 1:
Every child survives
and thrives
More children survive now than ever before.
From 2000 to 2017, neonatal mortality decreased 41 per cent; post-natal mortality
decreased 51 per cent; mortality of children aged 1 to 4 decreased 60 per cent; and
mortality among children aged 5 to 14 decreased 37 per cent.
Despite this remarkable progress, far too many children do not grow into adulthood.
In 2017, an estimated 6.3 million children died, mostly from preventable causes.
In other words, one child dies every five seconds.
To make sure every child survives and thrives, UNICEF supports an integrated and holistic
approach to child survival, growth and development. As part of this approach, UNICEF
has scaled up work on primary health care at the community level and teamed up with
governments and other partners to improve outcomes in maternal, newborn and child
health; nutrition; HIV prevention and treatment; and early childhood development (ECD).

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#EveryChildALIVE
More than 120 UNICEF country
offices and at least 10 National
Committees supported the
global launch of this campaign,
which featured a new report
on child survival and the
first-ever worldwide petition
calling for expanded resources
to save newborn lives. The
campaign engaged governments,
intergovernmental organizations
such as the African Union
and global private-sector
partners like Lixil and Takeda
in advancing the newborn
health agenda.

Health
UNICEF recognizes that primary
health care – integrated programmes
and interventions across the life cycle,
delivered within strong community
health systems – is the most
sustainable path to achieving Goal
Area 1 results and the third SDG:
healthy lives and well-being for all. The
2018 Global Conference on Primary
Health Care renewed a commitment
to primary health care as the means
to achieve universal health coverage
and the SDGs. UNICEF and the World
Health Organization (WHO) now
co-lead a global effort to strengthen
primary health care.
During the year, UNICEF provided
support to 23 countries with high
maternal and neonatal mortality as
they improved the quality of maternal
and newborn care. Sixteen countries
started to monitor the implementation
of kangaroo mother care, a method
of skin-to-skin contact that helps
pre-term babies survive. In addition,
UNICEF helped improve WASH
services in 3,355 health facilities
serving mothers and children. In six

RIGHT: A young boy in Afghanistan
celebrates with a balloon and an inked left
pinkie after receiving a polio vaccination
from one of the country’s dedicated
immunization workers.
© UNICEF/UN0202777/Hibbert

14

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

countries, UNICEF supported the
vaccination of 8.5 million women of
reproductive age against maternal
and neonatal tetanus; notably, Kenya
eliminated this deadly threat.
In 2018, 60,000 community health
workers participated in UNICEFsupported skills enhancement
programmes on integrated community
case management, an effort to bring
health care to the most marginalized
children. To prevent malaria, UNICEF
distributed insecticide-treated nets to
28.3 million people in 17 countries,
including 1.5 million in humanitarian
situations in 11 countries

Immunization
In 64 priority countries in 2017 – the
most recent year for which data are
available – UNICEF and partners
supported the vaccination of an
estimated 65.5 million children
with three doses of the DTP/Penta
vaccine. Despite the near-eradication
of polio worldwide, transmission
of the wild polio virus continues in
Afghanistan and Pakistan.

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Health
The Government of Japan continued its strong
advocacy for universal health coverage in
2018. With a total financial contribution of
US$11.5 million and technical support from
UNICEF, Japan is committed to improving health
information management systems in post-conflict
countries. Over three years, that commitment will
support essential health services to 2.2 million
pregnant women and 3.5 million children under
age 5 in these countries.

Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd also
sustained its partnership with UNICEF in 2018
to help protect the health of vulnerable families.
In Benin, Madagascar and Rwanda, Takeda
supports a five-year programme, launched
in 2017, to help 1.3 million mothers keep their
children healthy in the crucial first 1,000 days
of life. In addition, Takeda has contributed to
strengthening health systems in Angola, Guinea
and Togo.

The Government of the Republic of Korea also
remains dedicated to improving health care for
mothers and children. Among other initiatives in
2018, the Republic of Korea supported improved,
equitable access to quality health services for
pregnant women, children under age 5 and
newborns in Nepal.

Since 2015, Philips Foundation and UNICEF have
forged a partnership focused on improving
maternal and neonatal health. In 2018, UNICEF
and Philips Research developed a software
application to assess the status of 163 health
facilities in Kenya, providing data on how to
improve health care in the region.

The Government of Germany sustained its
generous support with an annual contribution
of €11.6 million to continue financing polio
control programmes in Afghanistan, Nigeria and
Pakistan. This partnership provides funding for
supplemental immunization activities, vaccine
procurement and technical assistance.

Over the past three decades, Johnson & Johnson
has supported programmes for children and
families in 20 countries and territories, with a
focus on strengthening health systems through
the training and empowerment of frontline
health workers and a commitment to improving
maternal and neonatal health. In November 2018,
Johnson & Johnson committed to contributing
US$10 million over the next three years to
support UNICEF’s efforts to bridge gaps in
health equity.

UNICEF and another strategic partner, the
United States Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), are long-term allies in the
effort to eradicate polio and accelerate control of
measles, rubella and other vaccine-preventable
diseases. In 2018, UNICEF and the CDC signed
a five‑year, US$180 million agreement to
strengthen immunization programmes at the
national, regional and global levels.
Also in 2018, Rotary International maintained its
leadership role in the Global Polio Eradication
Initiative through advocacy and generous
support for UNICEF’s polio immunization efforts.
There were only 33 known cases of paralysis
from wild polio virus globally in 2018, down from
350,000 in 1988. Similarly, Kiwanis International
remained a leading partner in the global effort to
eliminate maternal and neonatal tetanus.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Nutrition
As part of its effort to help children
survive and thrive in 2018, UNICEF
also focused on providing nutritious
diets and preventing all forms of
malnutrition – including stunting,
wasting and overweight. In particular,
UNICEF helped:
	 Treat 3.4 million children suffering
from severe acute malnutrition in
emergency situations – 88 per cent
of whom recovered
	 Reach more than 255 million
children with two doses of vitamin
A supplement
	 Provide 15.6 million children with
micronutrient powders containing
essential vitamins and minerals

With UNICEF support,
56 governments implemented
programmes for the prevention
of overweight in childhood, and
108 countries scaled up programmes
to improve the quality and diversity
of young children’s diets. UNICEF
also worked with governments in
30 countries to improve the quality
of adolescents’ diets and raise
their nutritional status. As a result,
more than 58 million adolescent
girls and boys received services to
prevent anaemia and other forms of
malnutrition. In India, over 44 million
adolescents benefited from an iron
and folic acid supplementation
programme to prevent anaemia.

	 Counsel 23 million caregivers on
optimal infant feeding practices
	 Roll out large-scale food fortification
programmes in 74 countries.

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2018: Nutrition

The Government of the Netherlands is the biggest
contributor to UNICEF’s Global Nutrition Thematic
Fund, having committed US$56 million to lifesaving nutrition programmes for the period from
2018 through 2021.
The Government of Germany continued
to invest in UNICEF’s integrated nutrition
programmes in 2018, particularly through
ONE World – No Hunger, a special initiative
of Germany’s Federal Ministry for Economic
Cooperation and Development (BMZ) in Eastern
and Southern Africa. As part of the initiative,
nearly 267,000 children benefited from holistic
nutrition interventions in Burundi, Ethiopia,
Malawi and Somalia.

16

The Government of the United Kingdom, through its
Department for International Development, provided
£78 million to help screen, prevent and tackle
malnutrition in Yemen. Between 2018 and 2020,
this funding will support malnutrition screening for
some 2.2 million children under age 5 and urgent
treatment for 70,000 of the most vulnerable.
The United Kingdom also provided £15 million
in multi-country support to UNICEF’s nutrition
programmes in West and Central Africa in 2018.
The nutrition programming addresses severe
acute malnutrition among young children
while strengthening food systems and building
resilience in Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali, Mauritania
and Niger.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

HIV and AIDS
By the end of 2017, 80 per cent of the
world’s 1.4 million pregnant women
with HIV were receiving lifelong
treatment. This progress in coverage
translates into a cumulative 1.8 million
paediatric HIV infections averted since
2000. In the same period, treatment
rates for children with HIV increased
to 52 per cent globally. The contrast
between the high rates of coverage
for mothers and the modest rate for
children results, in part, from a lack of
access to infant HIV diagnosis.
To close this gap in coverage, UNICEF
provides support to new point-of-care
testing platforms in 20 countries in
Africa. This approach will help increase
the rate at which infants born to
women with HIV are tested within
their first two months of life – and
thus increase the number of infants

who receive antiretroviral treatment.
Over 70,000 point-of-care tests were
conducted in 2018.
Almost all the 35 countries that
UNICEF designated for intensive
action on HIV are scaling up prevention
interventions among young people.
In the United Republic of Tanzania,
for example, UNICEF is working
with the Tanzania Social Action Fund
and the Tanzania Commission for
AIDS to implement an intervention
for adolescents (aged 14 to 19) that
combines social protection, economic
empowerment and education on HIV
and sexual and reproductive health.

BELOW: In the Democratic Republic of
the Congo, Madeleine Kabondia (left), a
community health worker, goes door-todoor to encourage prenatal care and raise
awareness about malnutrition and HIV.
© UNICEF/UN0271278/Tremeau

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2018: HIV and AIDS
Barça Foundation supports
UNICEF programmes by
contributing €2 million
annually to foster children’s
education through sports.
To date, the foundation
has provided more than
1.5 million children
with access to quality
education, sport and play,
leading to policy changes
and improved learning
outcomes.
In 2018, Barça Foundation
supported the launch of a
global working group with
the goal of establishing a
framework for sports for
development programmes.
It also agreed to support
path-breaking research
in partnership with the
UNICEF Office of Research–
Innocenti. The partnership
seeks to understand
existing development
programmes using sports
and establish credible
evidence of their outcomes
for children.
Barça Foundation also
contributed to the UNICEF
emergency response to the
tsunami in Indonesia. The
foundation’s contribution
helped protect children
from violence and provided
access to safe water,
sanitation and hygiene
facilities

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Before and after....
When Saba arrived at a therapeutic feeding centre in Yemen, her life was in danger. She suffered
from severe acute malnutrition and complications of fever and diarrhoea. After about three days
at the centre, Saba’s health began to improve. Once she was well enough, Saba was referred to the
outpatient clinic so medical staff could monitor her weight and health. War and economic crisis have
placed many thousands of children at risk of malnutrition throughout Yemen, and children like Saba
face dangers to their lives and well-being. The UNICEF-supported feeding centre where she received
care treats malnourished children and provides families with guidance on nutrition and hygiene.
Top: © UNICEF/UN0276450/Almahbashi

18

Above: © UNICEF/UN0276454/Almahbashi

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Early childhood development
UNICEF has made ECD central
to its work. In 2018, advocacy by
UNICEF and partners, including close
cooperation with the Government
of Argentina, helped to spur the
creation of the G20 Initiative for Early
Childhood Development.
A total of 80 countries have
institutionalized delivery of ECD
services and adopted multisectoral
ECD programmes with at least
two interventions for addressing
stimulation and responsive care in the
early years. Of those 80 countries,
33 have established ECD systems and
47 have demonstrated the potential to
go to scale in the near future.

Humanitarian settings
UNICEF provides a wide variety
of Goal Area 1 interventions in
humanitarian settings.
In 2018, UNICEF responded to
87 health emergencies or outbreaks
amid some of the most challenging
conditions in the world. The
organization supported measles
vaccination for 19.6 million children
in humanitarian situations. It also
responded to cholera outbreaks in at
least 14 countries and made progress
towards preventing the disease.

In response to the Ebola outbreak
in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo, UNICEF and partners
implemented a communication and
community engagement risk strategy
in North Kivu, Ituri and Equateur
provinces. The response aimed to
promote awareness and prevent
misconceptions about Ebola. It
engaged 9.6 million people, involved
the mobilization of 25,000 local
leaders and 15,000 frontline workers,
and included 90,000 broadcasts in
four languages on 113 radio stations.
Multiple surveys conducted during
the response showed that knowledge
about Ebola in these areas increased
significantly.

Capacity building
One of the greatest challenges faced
in Goal Area 1 was aligning the
capacity of staff and partners with
the increasing need for large-scale
strengthening of health systems.
To address this need, UNICEF has
invested new efforts to bolster
capacity in several areas, including
analytical skills; use of data; sector
planning; policy dialogue; and
coordination of cross-sectoral
support.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#EarlyMomentsMatter
About 125 UNICEF country
offices and National Committees
supported Father’s Day activities
organized by the early childhood
development campaign in 2018,
up from 108 in 2017. In September,
the campaign also worked with
the New Zealand Committee for
UNICEF to bring New Zealand
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern
and UNICEF Executive Director
Henrietta H. Fore together at the
Social Good Summit in New York,
where they advocated for familyfriendly policies in the public and
private sectors. For the first time,
early childhood development
was on the agenda at the G20
summit meeting as well, reflecting
increased global awareness about
the importance of learning and
stimulation in the early years.

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
provided:
•	

12 million children with educational
support

•	

6.9 million children with education
support in humanitarian situations

•	

11.3 million children with learning
materials

•	

55,983 school communities with
training in management, planning,
school health and hygiene, and
education for children with disabilities.

The total Goal Area 2 expense was
US$1.2 billion.

RIGHT: Saad Gul, 10, was displaced
from her home and now stays with her
grandparents in Herat, Afghanistan, so that
she can attend classes at the Accelerated
Learning Centre in Baghe Mellat.
20
© UNICEF/UN0212104/Mohammadi

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Goal Area 2:
Every child learns
Great progress has been achieved in providing access to quality learning opportunities for
every child. Globally, more children than ever are in school and, in general, girls and boys
attend in nearly equal numbers. In countries where UNICEF provides support, education
systems are increasingly focused on learning outcomes.
Despite these achievements, many children are still left behind. Progress, in many
places, has been inequitable. And record numbers of children have had their education
interrupted by conflict and emergencies.
In 2017, the last year for which data are available, 262 million children and young
people were out of school. An estimated 387 million primary school-aged children and
230 million lower secondary school-aged adolescents failed to achieve basic numeracy
and literacy. In low-income countries, an average of 46 per cent of the money spent on
public education is allocated to the most educated 10 per cent of students.
UNICEF worked in 144 countries in 2018 to address these global educational challenges.
The efforts of UNICEF and partners concentrated on moving away from providing goods
and services to strengthening countries’ education systems; tackling inequities in access
and learning outcomes; improving early learning opportunities for pre-primary aged
children and skills development for adolescents; and providing education in emergency
situations – an effort that helps link emergency relief with development goals.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Learning outcomes
In addition to providing learning
materials and management training for
school systems, UNICEF and partners
worked to improve learning outcomes
through teacher development
programmes and advancement of
robust early childhood development
policies and learning systems.

BELOW: Faida was rescued from a forced
marriage at age 17 and is now back in
school in Uganda. She received help from
the World Vision campaign to end child
marriage, with support from UNICEF
and funding from the Government of the
Netherlands.
© UNICEF/UN0297681/Adriko

22

With a boost from these efforts,
35 per cent of the countries UNICEF
supported had education systems that
worked towards improved learning
outcomes in 2018. Of the countries
where UNICEF provided support to
the education sector, 66 per cent
had adequate early learning policies,
leadership and budget in 2018; 45 per
cent had governance and regulatory
systems; and 52 per cent had learning
opportunities with trained teachers.

Equitable access to education
More than 11.9 million out-of-school
girls and boys participated in either
early learning, primary or secondary
education in 2018 through UNICEFsupported programmes, including in
humanitarian contexts.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Also in 2018, 37 per cent of countries
supported by UNICEF had a strategy
for making access to education more
equitable, and 35 per cent had plans
to address inequitable resource
allocation for education. And 90 per
cent of countries that receive support
from UNICEF had a law or policy
establishing the right of all children to
receive an education.

Skills development
UNICEF supported skills
development for young people
in 97 countries in 2018. The Life
Skills and Citizenship Education
Initiative has helped governments
and partners bolster life skills and
employability at scale in Jordan,
Lebanon and the State of Palestine.
The Power for Youth programme,
supported by UNICEF partner
ING, has done similar work in
China, Kosovo*, Montenegro, the
Philippines and Viet Nam.

* References to Kosovo should be understood
to be in the context of United Nations Security
Council Resolution 1244 (1999).

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Education
As the largest donor to UNICEF’s global
thematic fund for education, the Government
of Norway continued to ensure long-term
planning and sustainability for education
programmes in 2018. In addition, Norway’s
contribution to education in emergencies
helped UNICEF train teachers, rehabilitate
schools, promote catch-up classes and
otherwise improve access to quality, inclusive
education services for children affected by the
crisis in the Syrian Arab Republic.
The Government of Denmark provided highly
flexible thematic funding to UNICEF education
programmes in the Sahel – specifically to the
country offices in Burkina Faso, Mali and the
Niger – as it has done since 2017.
At the global level, momentum on girls’
education built steadily in 2018, thanks
in large part to the leadership of Canada,
France and the United Kingdom. Tapping
the collective energy around this issue, the
73rd Session of the United Nations General
Assembly highlighted the urgency and
importance of educating girls and women.

The Government of Germany provided
€18 million in support for GPE in 2018 – a year in
which education was a continuing high priority
for Germany, particularly through the No Lost
Generation initiative to maintain schooling for
children affected by the Syrian crisis. Germany
also supported key education programmes in
Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Republic, Somalia,
Sudan, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
In the corporate sector in 2018, Primark and
UNICEF launched a three-year partnership
focusing on helping vulnerable children
attend and stay in school in Cambodia – and
on UNICEF’s worldwide emergency response
operations.
At the same time, the LEGO Group, the LEGO
Foundation and UNICEF continued to advance
the partnership they established in 2015. The
partnership promotes business practices that
support children’s rights and underscore the
importance of learning through play. Drawing
on its experience with programmes and
policies to safeguard children, the LEGO Group
launched the new Child Safeguarding Toolkit
for Business in 2018.

It was also a critical year for the Global
Partnership for Education (GPE) and for
UNICEF’s engagement in that partnership.
In February, GPE held its third financing
conference, co-hosted by the Presidents
of France and Senegal. Beyond significant
contributions from development partners,
the meeting generated commitments from
50 developing countries to increase public
education expenditures up to a total of
US$110 billion.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Mohammad, 18, prepares for his final exams at Suleiman Sultan School in Gaza City.
Mohammad credits his family with helping him stick to his studies. With the exams behind
him, Mohammad says he plans to study in a field that will lead to employment after school,
such as engineering or nursing.
© UNICEF/UN0222640/El Baba

24

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

Education in emergencies
In 2018, UNICEF reached 6.9 million
children in humanitarian situations
with education, including nearly
600,000 children in South Sudan and
1.2 million Syrian refugee children
in Egypt, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon and
Turkey. In the Syrian Arab Republic,
UNICEF supported the development
of a holistic learning assessment
tool that measures reading, math
and social-emotional skills for crisisaffected children and adolescents.
Global commitment
In 2018, a worldwide commitment to
children’s education was evident as
the Global Partnership for Education
raised more than US$2 billion to help
provide quality learning for the world’s
poorest children and adolescents.
At the same time, world leaders pledged
their support for the International
Finance Facility for Education, and the
World Bank launched its Human Capital
Project, which emphasizes the transformative power of education. These
initiatives, to which UNICEF provided
strategic support, not only advance the
organization’s goals but also provide a
more conducive environment for the
success of its programmes.

UNICEF continued to play a
strategic role in the governance
of Education Cannot Wait, the
global fund for education in
emergencies. UNICEF hosted
the fund’s secretariat and helped
direct additional resources
to underfunded education-inemergency efforts, including
in Bangladesh, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Indonesia,
Nigeria and Papua New Guinea.
In June 2018, at the Group of
Seven summit hosted by Canada
in Charlevoix, Quebec, UNICEF
joined the United Nations Girls’
Education Initiative (UNGEI) and
civil society partners in a global
advocacy campaign that helped
secure pledges of Can$3.8 billion
for women’s and girls’ education in
humanitarian situations.
And in collaboration with UNGEI
and the Global Partnership for
Education, UNICEF supported
training on gender-responsive
planning in the education sector
for government and civil society
representatives from 13 countries
in sub-Saharan Africa.

LEFT: Loul Bopha, 11, attends a village
school in Cambodia that provides a
multilingual education curriculum, which
means she can study in her indigenous
language while also learning the national
language.
© UNICEF/UN0259988/Raab

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
worked in
154  countries to
prevent and respond
to violence against
children.
Among other results:

•	

More than 16 million children’s births
were registered in 49 countries

•	

About 4.8 million adolescent girls
participated in interventions to address
child marriage

•	

1.7 million children on the move
received protection services.

The total Goal Area 3 expense was about
US$658 million.

RIGHT: Children play in the Malakal Protection
of Civilians site in South Sudan. UNICEF provides
comprehensive support to children and families
at the site – including prenatal care, nutrition,
education, and water and sanitation services.
26
© UNICEF/UN0232276

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

Goal Area 3:
Every child is protected
from violence and
exploitation
A strong commitment to protecting children against violence is clearly reflected in the
Sustainable Development Goals and the recent work of governments and partnerships
around the world, including the Global Partnership to End Violence against Children.
Despite this commitment, children continue to face violence in their homes, schools and
communities, and online. Children uprooted by conflict and disaster continue to face
heightened risks of violence, child labour and exploitation. And more than 100 countries
lack fully functioning birth registration systems, one of the first tools for protecting
children’s rights and safety.
To achieve international goals – and protect millions of children around the world – it is
essential to speed up the pace of progress. Indeed, a sense of urgency is required if the
child protection targets in the SDGs are to be reached by the 2030 deadline.
Under its new Strategic Plan, UNICEF has sharpened its approach to child protection in
development work and humanitarian action, often linking the two sectors.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#ENDviolence
UNICEF’s campaign to end
violence against children adopted
a new focus on violence in schools
in 2018. The campaign hosted a
series of Youth Talks on the topic
in 11 countries, kicked off by
Goodwill Ambassador Lilly Singh
in South Africa. Feedback from
the talks formed the basis for an
#ENDviolence Youth Manifesto
presented at the Education
World Forum, the largest annual
gathering of education ministers.
The campaign also launched
a digital poll asking children
and young people if they had
ever felt afraid of violence
in or around their schools.
More than 1 million students
in 160 countries responded;
69 per cent of them said ‘yes’ and
24,000 recommended ways to
make schools safer

Protection against
violence and sexual
exploitation and abuse
Protection from sexual exploitation
and abuse (PSEA) received
renewed attention and investment
in 2018, and 17 countries
significantly scaled up their
response to it. UNICEF played a
leading role in addressing PSEA
in the United Nations system
and charted a course towards
safe and accessible reporting,
quality assistance for survivors,
enhanced accountability, and
investigations of cases in countries
with humanitarian or refugee
response plans.
UNICEF reached 2.3 million children
who had experienced violence in
2018 by supporting health, social
work, justice and law enforcement
programmes in 112 countries – a
result that exceeded expectations.
Overall, UNICEF supported efforts
to strengthen services that
prevent and respond to violence
against children in 134 countries.
In Nicaragua, for example, a
government-led national campaign
against sexual abuse reached nearly
3 million people and led to stronger
services for survivors and pregnant
adolescents. Parenting programmes
aimed at reducing violence in
homes reached more than 2 million
mothers, fathers and caregivers in
75 countries.

Humanitarian action
UNICEF reached 3.6 million children
and adolescents affected by conflict
and other emergencies with
psychosocial support in 59 countries
during 2018.
Gender-based violence in
emergencies received renewed
attention. UNICEF and partners
provided 1.3 million women, girls
and boys with interventions aimed
at mitigating risk and preventing or
responding to violence.
In 37 countries – including Nigeria,
Somalia and South Sudan –
61 per cent of the unaccompanied
and separated children who
registered with family tracing
and reunification services were
reunited with their families, received
family-based care or had access to
appropriate alternative services. This
proportion was up from 41 per cent in
2016 and 55 per cent in 2017.
In countries including the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Nigeria, the
Philippines and Somalia, 13,600 former
child soldiers were released or
reintegrated with their families. All of
them received care and services.
UNICEF and partners reached more
than 3.7 million children in countries
including Myanmar, the Syrian Arab
Republic and Ukraine with mine
risk education messages aimed at
reducing injuries and saving lives
from landmines and explosive
remnants of war.
UNICEF also participated in global
efforts to monitor and report grave
violations of children’s rights in
armed conflict. In 2018, more than
13,000 grave violations were documented across 20 countries through
the Country Task Force on Monitoring
and Reporting, which is co-chaired by
UNICEF.

28

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Child protection
The Government of Sweden has a long track
record of investment in UNICEF’s global thematic
fund supporting child protection. As such,
Sweden has committed nearly US$19 million in
highly flexible funding to UNICEF programmes
working to end violence against children, prevent
harmful practices and advance juvenile justice
from 2018 through 2021.

them from discrimination and exploitation.
The Telenor contribution focused on scaling up
the UNICEF-supported Digital Birth Registration
Programme in Pakistan, which registered more
than 587,000 children in 2018. Telenor also
provided core assets, funding and technical
assistance for a pilot project on digital birth and
death registration in Myanmar.

In 2018, Sweden’s contributions supported –
among other things – services for 2 million girls
and boys affected by violence and 3 million
children on the move, as well as 6 million
adolescent girls’ access to programmes
addressing child marriage. Sweden also hosted
the End Violence Solutions Summit, galvanizing
international efforts to stop violence against
children.

Telenor’s joint-venture partner in Bangladesh,
Grameen Phone, has supported the
establishment of a centralized Child Helpline to
tackle issues such as child marriage, violence
and exploitation. More recently, Grameen Phone
has worked with UNICEF to raise awareness
of child protection online in Bangladesh; it is
now planning to support direct safer-Internet
training for more than 1.2 million adolescents
and 600,000 parents, teachers and guardians.
In addition, Telenor’s partner in Malaysia,
Digi, has helped promote a safer Internet by
supporting multimedia online resources and
awareness programmes for children.

Sweden’s flexible support also contributed to
UNICEF’s work on children in armed conflict –
including the release and reintegration of more
than 13,000 children from armed groups and
a special programme for children affected by
armed conflict in the Central African Republic,
Somalia and South Sudan.
In West and Central Africa, the Government of
the United Kingdom provided nearly £7 million
in multi-country support for UNICEF’s work on
migration in 2018. This contribution supported
social services for children on the move, training
on child protection for service providers, and
efforts to raise awareness about migration
issues in the region.

UNICEF’s close collaboration with the Global
Partnership to End Violence Against Children
continues to help turn political influence into
concrete, coordinated national policy agendas
aimed at reducing violence against children.
As chair of the partnership’s Executive Board,
UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta H. Fore is
a champion and advocate for global, regional
and national commitments to end violence
against children.

Corporate partner Telenor renewed its
commitment to UNICEF in 2018. The partnership
includes collaborative efforts on digital inclusion
and skills for a digital future over the next three
years – as well as funding for birth registration
programmes in South Asia and Southeast Asia.
By providing children with a legal identity, such
programmes help ensure children’s access
to basic rights and services, and help protect

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

Ence, 6, was displaced from her home by a massive earthquake that struck the Indonesian
island of Sulawesi in September 2018. UNICEF and partners responded by providing
comprehensive support, including psychosocial services. In the aftermath of the earthquake,
UNICEF and partners set up posts where they could identify children who had been
separated from their families and reunite them. The posts also served as safe spaces where
children could play and recover.
When an emergency strikes, children’s well-being is at risk. In Indonesia, UNICEF and the
Ministry of Social Affairs prepared social workers to respond to the disaster and provide care
and protection for vulnerable children like Ence.
© UNICEF/UN0245867/Veska

30

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Child marriage and female
genital mutilation
In collaboration with the United
Nations Population Fund, UNICEF
reached 4.8 million adolescent girls
aged 10 to 19 in 46 countries during
2018 – up from 2.1 million in 2017 –
with programmes aimed at preventing
child marriage and caring for girls
affected by it.
As part of the collaboration, nearly
100,000 girls and women in 13 countries benefited from prevention and
protection efforts involving female
genital mutilation. Nearly 7 million
people participated in education,
communication and social mobilization
efforts to eliminate this practice,
keeping UNICEF on track to reach a
target of 7.8 million people by 2021.

Justice issues
Interventions to improve access
to justice, such as specialized legal
aid, benefited 190,000 children and
young people in 2018. In 50 countries,
UNICEF supported capacity-building
for justice professionals, 44 per cent
of whom received certification to work
with child offenders and 59 per cent
of whom were certified to work with
child victims.

Global commitment
With the Executive Director of
UNICEF serving as Chair of the
Executive Board of the Global
Partnership to End Violence against
Children, UNICEF is well positioned
to galvanize political commitment
and translate it into concrete, timebound national policy agendas to
end violence against children.
UNICEF worked with the partnership
and the Government of Sweden on
the 2030 Agenda for Children: End
Violence Solutions Summit, the first
global meeting on violence against
children. The groundbreaking event
led to commitments from national
governments, donors and civil society
organizations. It also resulted in the
first multi-country ministerial-level
proclamation on violence against
children.
Also in 2018, the End Violence against
Children Initiative, UNICEF, the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, the Department
for International Development of
the United Kingdom and the United
Nations Girls’ Education Initiative
forged an alliance to end violence in
every school by 2024.

Strengthening systems
In 2018, UNICEF worked with
132 countries to strengthen their
social service workforce and helped
115 countries improve the availability
and quality of data on violence against
children. UNICEF’s Primero casemanagement software tool has been
implemented in 22 situations and used
in complex emergencies, including the
Ebola crisis response in Sierra Leone,
the earthquake and the tsunami
response in Indonesia and the Syrian
refugee response in Jordan.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#ChildrenUprooted
As governments came together
to adopt the Global Compact on
Refugees and the Global Compact
for Safe, Orderly and Regular
Migration in 2018, UNICEF’s
#ChildrenUprooted campaign
helped secure commitments to
refugee and migrant children
in these landmark agreements.
With an assist from UNICEF
National Goodwill Ambassador
and Spanish football captain
Sergio Ramos, the campaign
rolled out the #LongestGoal social
media initiative in connection
with the FIFA World Cup – giving
the global public a chance to
speak up for young refugees and
migrants. UNICEF also supported
the children and young people
who hosted a Youth Forum on
Migration prior to the Global
Compact summit meeting held in
July in Marrakech, Morocco.

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
worked on
Goal Area 4 in
147 countries.
Programmes
supported by UNICEF
helped provide:
•	

18.6 million people with access to safe
drinking water

•	

10.8 million people with access to basic
sanitation services

•	

47 countries with support for childsensitive national plans to address risks
including disaster, climate change,
conflict and public health emergencies

•	

51 countries with environmental
sustainability activities.

The total Goal Area 4 expense was
US$1 billion.

RIGHT: In the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, Rachel, 12, inspects latrines at the Marie
Madeleine Primary School. If one is dirty, she
will report it to the teachers. UNICEF provides
Rachel’s school with basic needs, including a
well, toilets, washbasins and sanitation kits.
© UNICEF/UN0271291/Tremeau
32

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

Goal Area 4:
Every child lives in a safe
and clean environment
The physical environment where children are born, live and play shapes many aspects of
their health, safety and well-being.
In a safe, clean and secure environment, children have access to drinking water, sanitation and
hygiene services. There are measures in place to mitigate risks from disasters and conflict.
And urban planning, governance and monitoring are responsive to children’s needs and rights.
Goal Area 4 of the UNICEF Strategic Plan addresses the issues that affect children’s
environment: water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH); disaster risk reduction, resilience
strengthening and peacebuilding; urban programming and local governance; and climate,
energy and the environment.
Tragically, many millions of children around the world do not have access to a safe, clean and
secure environment. According to the most recent data available, 2.1 billion people did not have
access to safe drinking water at home, 2.3 billion people did not have access to basic sanitation
and 892 million practiced open defecation. In 2016, 570 million children did not have basic
drinking water at school and more than 620 million did not have access to basic sanitation.
In countries affected by fragility, conflict and violence, children younger than age 14
make up about 40 per cent of the population. And almost a quarter of the children in the
world live in zones where flood occurrences are extremely high.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Water, sanitation and hygiene
In 2018, UNICEF engaged in WASH
programming in 105 countries
and provided support for WASH
humanitarian action in 72 countries.
Of the nearly 19 million people who
gained access to safe water services
– defined as water from an improved
source, with less than 30 minutes
collection time, and meeting national
drinking water quality standards
– 7 million were reached through
UNICEF development programming
and 12 million through water
infrastructure programmes that
were part of UNICEF’s humanitarian
response.

BELOW: In a town in the Somaliland
region, friends wash their hands with
water supplied through a programme
funded by the European Union. The
system is the town’s first safe water
source.
© UNICEF/UN0316248/Knowles-Coursin

34

UNICEF also directly helped 7,710 schools
gain access to gender-segregated
sanitation facilities and provided direct
support for improved WASH services
in 3,355 health-care facilities.
In addition to helping people gain access
to basic sanitation services, UNICEF
supported programmes to end open

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

defecation. In 2018, UNICEF finalized
the Game Plan to End Open Defecation,
which focuses on 26 priority countries
– and globally, direct support from
UNICEF helped 22,470 communities
become open-defecation free. These
communities included five districts in
Afghanistan, two counties in Kenya, four
municipalities in the Philippines, and
Bagaroua, the first-ever open-defecationfree municipality in the Niger. In India,
the Swachh Bharat Mission declared
18 states open-defecation free in 2018.
In humanitarian settings, UNICEF
provided safe water to more than
43 million people in 64 countries.
Interventions included water tankering,
treatment and long-term water
infrastructure building. Sanitation
facilities were provided to more than
13 million people in 46 countries. And
close to 4.4 million children benefited
from gender-appropriate WASH
facilities and hygiene promotion in
schools or temporary learning spaces
in humanitarian situations.

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Water, sanitation and hygiene
Sweden remains the biggest contributor to
UNICEF’s global WASH fund, with more than
US$70 million committed to WASH programming from 2018 through 2021. This strong
partnership is grounded in Sweden’s leadership
on the Sustainable Development Agenda, including a commitment to improve sanitation for
60 million people by 2030. Sweden’s support
enables UNICEF to integrate gender equality,
disability rights and other cross-cutting issues
into its WASH programming.
Support from the Government of the
Netherlands helped UNICEF accelerate water
and sanitation programmes in West and Central
Africa in 2018 – engaging with civil society and
local government bodies, promoting hygiene
education and supporting the development of
local water supply systems in the region.
Yet another critical partner in this sector, the
Government of Germany, focused its WASH
support in 2018 primarily on children and
families in fragile contexts such as the Syrian
refugee crisis. Germany’s support for sustainable WASH interventions was vitally important
for children and families in Ethiopia, the Sudan,
Ukraine, Yemen and Zambia.

LIXIL and UNICEF launched an innovative
partnership in 2018 to tackle the global
sanitation crisis. Starting in Ethiopia, Kenya and
the United Republic of Tanzania, the partnership
aims to provide access to basic sanitation to
millions worldwide by cultivating inclusive
markets through awareness, education and
demand creation. These efforts will be paired
with affordable, high-quality sanitation
products and services.
UNICEF and Unilever have been in partnership
since 2012, together reaching more than
16 million people with sanitation-based
interventions for behaviour change. In
2018, UNICEF and Unilever expanded their
partnership in hygiene and sanitation to include
efforts aimed at improving and maintaining
WASH in 150,000 schools in India. The
partnership has also helped 10 million children
gain access to education in Brazil, India and
Viet Nam.

The Government of the Republic of Korea has
demonstrated its resolve to help strengthen
community resilience to climate change
through improved WASH services and
environmental education. In 2018, the Republic
of Korea supported improved water availability,
sanitation and hygiene for children living amid
dry seasons and extreme climate impacts in
Kenya. It also supported community-based,
climate-resilient WASH interventions in rural
Mongolia.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Disaster risk reduction,
peacebuilding and urban
programming
In 2018, 281 climate-related and
geophysical events affected more
than 60 million people and led to at
least 10,733 deaths. UNICEF’s work
on reducing the risks associated with
disasters helped 15 countries with
technical assistance for risk-informed
programming, conflict sensitivity and
peacebuilding.
By the end of 2018, 47 countries had
child-sensitive strategies, policies and
plans to address and mitigate the risks
of climate change, conflict, publichealth emergencies and other crises.
In addition, UNICEF worked with
other United Nations agencies
in 22 countries through the
Peacebuilding Fund. Work focused on
child protection, youth and adolescent
participation, community engagement,
education and local governance. In
Bosnia and Herzegovina, UNICEF
helped create opportunities for young
people to have a voice in identifying
national priorities and shaping policy.
A growing proportion of the world’s
children reside in urban settings,
where, on average, they have greater
proximity to services and benefit
from higher incomes and better
infrastructure than rural children.
However, UNICEF research shows
that in some countries, the poorest
and most vulnerable urban children
fare worse than their peers in rural
areas. In 2018, UNICEF revitalized its
programming for children in urban
settings and provided support to
urban and rural local governments.
As a result, 409 local governments in
32 countries have child-responsive and
budgeted plans.

36

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Climate change, energy and the
environment
UNICEF programming in climate
change, energy and the environment
has focused on climate-sensitive
WASH infrastructure, health,
education and support for young
people as drivers of change. In
2018, 28 countries reported having
programmes that include children in
efforts to foster climate resilience,
compared with 14 countries in 2017.
UNICEF worked to update education
programmes as well. In China, for
example, a major revision of lifeskills education for in-school and
out-of-school adolescents included
the development of modules on
environmental protection and climate
change, which were piloted in
junior high and vocational schools in
13 provinces.

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

A child takes cover under an umbrella in the Balukhali refugee camp in Cox’s Bazar District,
Bangladesh. UNICEF, the Government of Bangladesh and other partners on the ground work
hard to protect children from the dangers of landslides, flash floods and waterborne diseases
in the area, where large numbers of Rohingya children and families from neighbouring
Myanmar have sought refuge.
© UNICEF/UN0219067/Nybo

BELOW: Caption - Caption - Caption - .
© UNICEFxxxx

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF’s
work on providing
every child with an
equitable chance in
life included:
•	 Directly supporting cash transfer
programmes that reached more
than 38 million children – including
more than 7 million children in
humanitarian settings
•	 Supporting children with disabilities in
123 countries and providing assistive
devices and products for more than
66,000 children with disabilities
•	

Promoting civic engagement
programmes for about 6 million
adolescents in 102 countries, including an
estimated 500,000 adolescents in conflictaffected or humanitarian contexts

•	 Providing support to 36 countries so
they could implement positive gender
socialization programmes at scale – a
new area of work for UNICEF.
The total Goal Area 5 expense was
US$427 million.

RIGHT: Besan, 10, and her brother,
Yaseen, 7, attend the Makani Centre, part of a
programme sponsored by UNICEF in Jordan to
provide children with learning, protection, life
skills and other support.
38
© UNICEF/UN0278475/Herwig

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

Goal Area 5:
Every child has an
equitable chance in life
Globally, nearly half of all people in extreme poverty are children living in households
with an income of less than US$1.90 a day per person.
But poverty takes many forms. Worldwide, a third of children – 665 million – live in
households that experience multidimensional poverty. These children are deprived of
access to services and face disadvantages that are often compounded by discrimination
based on gender, disability, language, ethnicity or location.
To address these inequities, UNICEF invests in improving social protection and works
in multiple sectors to tackle poverty, discrimination and exclusion, and to promote
opportunity.
Goal Area 5 directly aligns with the emphasis of the SDGs on ending poverty and is a
clear manifestation of UNICEF’s commitment to leave no one behind. It also highlights
UNICEF’s commitment to gender equality, adolescent engagement and disability rights.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#GenerationUnlimited
Young people joined global
leaders from politics, business,
entertainment and education
for the July launch of UNICEF’s
Generation Unlimited partnership,
which aims for every young
person to be in school, training or
age-appropriate employment by
2030. The launch generated more
than 24 million engagements on
social media, including a Facebook
Live appearance by the pop group
BTS that became the most viewed
video in UNICEF’s history.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#ComicContest
The UNICEF youth team’s key
#ENDviolence project in 2018
was the School Superhero
Comic Contest, which received
3,600 submissions and
23,000 votes to select a winner.
The contest tasked entrants to
“design their own comic superhero
that will defeat The Silence and
help keep children safe in school”
– The Silence being a super-villain
representing the forces that keep
children from speaking out about

Social protection
UNICEF encourages governments to
monitor child poverty and enact social
and economic policies for greater
social protection. As of the end of
2018, 55 countries had measurement
and reporting mechanisms for
multidimensional child poverty;
74 countries had mechanisms to
measure and report on monetary
child poverty; and 75 countries where
UNICEF works in social protection
reported having strong or moderately
strong social protection systems.
In 22 countries, child poverty was
addressed by specific policies and
programmes. In Georgia, for example,
the government increased the value
of social benefits after a UNICEF
analysis highlighted an increase in
child poverty.
UNICEF works to increase the
number of children reached with
cash transfers. The organization helps
countries strengthen their social
protection systems, so families have
better access to social services,
employment opportunities and
income support when needed. In
2018, UNICEF supported 36 countries
in strengthening their social protection
systems so they could respond to
crises, and nine now report readiness
to use their national cash transfer
systems in emergency situations.
In partnership with the World Bank,
UNICEF continued to support a critical
cash-transfer programme in Yemen,
which reached 4.5 million children. In
the aftermath of drought in Ethiopia,
UNICEF contributed US$11 million
to expand a pooled contingency
fund, benefiting more than 1.2 million
people in 240,000 households.

bullies and school violence. The
winner was Rizka, a 17-year-old
high school student from South
Sulawesi in Indonesia.

40

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Adolescent development
In 2018, 33 countries reported having
policies and legislation in place to
support adolescent development. In
India alone, 4.2 million adolescents
were engaged in efforts to increase
civic engagement – a huge increase
prompted by a joint strategy with the
government.
Gender equality
In 2018, UNICEF began
implementation of the Gender Action
Plan, 2018–2021, which includes
positive gender socialization as a
new area of work aimed at changing
discriminatory gender norms. In all of
its work on gender, UNICEF focused
on positive parenting, adolescent
girls’ empowerment, communication
strategies and evidence generation. In
humanitarian situations, it supported
large-scale disability-inclusive
programmes in Bangladesh, Nigeria
and the Syrian Arab Republic.
Children with disabilities
UNICEF provided assistive devices
and products to more than 66,000
children living with disabilities in 2018.
UNICEF also contributed to disabilityinclusive emergency programmes
and services in 36 per cent of the
countries that had humanitarian
appeals.
UNICEF helps advance the development of education policies and plans
benefiting children with disabilities.
In 2018, 93 countries reported
progress in this area. In Egypt, for
example, the National Assembly
approved a new law on education
for children with disabilities, and the
Ministry of Education declared that
all public schools were to include
children with disabilities.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Global commitment
Data gaps hinder efforts to address
challenges faced by many of the
world’s most disadvantaged children.
For instance, the lack of disaggregated administrative, census and
survey data on children with disabilities limits UNICEF’s ability to reach
this group of children. UNICEF’s work
with the Washington Group on disability statistics is helping to increase
the number of countries that regularly gather such data. As part of the
effort to provide every child with an
equitable chance in life,

UNICEF is working with partners
around the world to increase every
country’s capacity to disaggregate
data on the multiple dimensions of
child poverty.
The Coalition to End Child Poverty
is a key partnership that addresses
these issues. In addition, UNICEF
is an active member of the
Universal Social Protection 2030
partnership platform led by the
International Labour Organization
and the World Bank.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Social protection
The Government of Spain continued to partner
with UNICEF on social protection in 2018. This
reliable partnership has provided improved
coverage of social protection services and
improved equity for vulnerable groups,
particularly for indigenous children and children
with disabilities.
Corporate partner ING continued investing
in the empowerment of adolescents to reach
their potential and contribute to healthy,
sustainable societies. The Power for Youth
partnership, established by ING and UNICEF,
works with youth in five countries in Asia and
Central Europe to develop their life skills and
work skills through innovative approaches
– including the UPSHIFT programme, which
helps disadvantaged young people become
the future workforce and future leaders in their
communities.

Zonta International also committed its support to
the Global Programme to Accelerate Action to End
Child Marriage, becoming the first private-sector
partner to do so. With this support, UNICEF and
the United Nations Population Fund will be able
to scale up the joint programme in 12 countries
with a high prevalence of child marriage – a
human rights violation that compromises girls’
development and often results in harmful early
pregnancy and social isolation.
The Government of Austria has been a
committed supporter of UNICEF’s work to
achieve gender-based social protection and
efforts to end female genital mutilation. In 2018,
Austria provided support for the development of
zero-tolerance policies and care for women and
children who experience this harmful practice.

To empower women and girls, UNICEF partner
Zonta International committed in 2018 to extend
its support for Let Us Learn Madagascar. This
initiative enables UNICEF to reach vulnerable,
out-of-school children – particularly girls – with
quality education.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
responded to
285 new and ongoing
humanitarian
emergencies in
90 countries. In these
settings, UNICEF
reached:
•	 More than 43.6 million people with
access to safe water
•	 2.4 million households (comprising
7.1 million children) with cash transfer
programmes
•	 6.9 million children with learning
opportunities
•	 3.6 million children and adolescents
with psychosocial support
•	 3.4 million children aged 6 months
to 59 months suffering from severe
acute malnutrition with treatment
programmes.
The total humanitarian action expense
was US$2.7 billion.

RIGHT: Parents play with a baby at a
child-friendly space supported by UNICEF in
Ecuador. The space is part of a humanitarian
action initiative that provides support to
children and families arriving from the crisis in
the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
42
© UNICEF/UN0253250/Moreno
Gonzalez

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Humanitarian Action

Conflicts, natural disasters, epidemics and other crises in 2018 threatened the
lives and futures of children and undermined progress towards achieving global
development goals.
About 420 million children live in areas affected by conflict around the world. These
conflicts and other emergencies have led to mass displacement. In 2018, nearly
69 million people were uprooted from their homes; among them were nearly
25.4 million refugees, more than half of whom were children.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:
#ChildrenUnderAttack
In 2018, this campaign –
focused on ending attacks on
children, including the denial of
humanitarian access, in conflictaffected areas – strengthened
advocacy for children caught
up in crises in countries and
territories such as Gaza, the Syrian
Arab Republic and Yemen, as
well as the Rohingya refugee
crisis in Bangladesh. Children’s
right to safe water and sanitation
in humanitarian crises was a
consistent focus of the campaign,
which also worked with the
Global Coalition to Protect
Education from Attack on a report
calling for action to make schools
safe for every child.

Focused response
UNICEF has continued to strengthen
its response to mass displacement
and protracted crises while also
increasing the quality and scope
of its efforts. In 2018, UNICEF
provided tailored support to countries
experiencing new emergencies such
as Papua New Guinea; countries
affected by the migration crises in
Latin America and the Caribbean; and
countries in West and Central Africa
that faced outbreaks of Ebola.
In the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, UNICEF provided basic water,
sanitation and hygiene (WASH)
services to more than 1 million
people affected by conflict and
natural disaster. In cholera- and Ebolaprone areas, UNICEF responded by
providing WASH response packages
to approximately 2.4 million people. In
Afghanistan, nearly 276,000 children
in drought-affected areas were
admitted for severe acute malnutrition
treatment, and more than 1 million
people received access to water,
including in drought-affected areas.

Linking development and
humanitarian action
UNICEF seeks to sustain development
gains for children in its humanitarian
work, just as it seeks to strengthen
crisis prevention and resilience in its
development programming.
In the Syrian Arab Republic in 2018,
UNICEF demonstrated that a properly
designed short-term response
provides an entry point for long-term
interventions that build resilience. In
eastern Ukraine, UNICEF has focused
on building local authorities’ and
civil society organizations’ capacity
to provide high-quality services and
enhance social cohesion. In Burkina
Faso, a pilot country for the United
Nations Sustaining Peace Initiative,
UNICEF has helped the government
link humanitarian and development
interventions to foster child rights and
enhance community resilience.
And following the Sulawesi earthquake
in Indonesia, community engagement
and a series of workshops enabled
affected children to address both their
immediate and longer-term needs.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Humanitarian action
The United States was UNICEF’s largest
government resource partner for humanitarian
operations in 2018, contributing to its work in
countries including Bangladesh, the Central African
Republic, the Democratic Republic of the Congo
and the Syrian Arab Republic.
The Netherlands continued to be the largest
government contributor to UNICEF’s global
thematic fund for humanitarian action in 2018.
And the Republic of Korea increased its overall
contribution to UNICEF’s humanitarian action,
including its support through flexible channels
such as global thematic funding.

44

Sweden and Denmark continue to be highly flexible
partners, providing un-earmarked contributions that
help meet the goals of UNICEF’s Humanitarian Action
for Children plans.
The Gulf countries – in particular, the Kingdom of
Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates – have strengthened their engagement
in UNICEF’s work as well, making substantial
contributions to humanitarian action and Regular
Resources to aid children caught in crises. A
December 2018 visit to the region by the Executive
Director reinforced UNICEF’s position as a partner
of choice in Gulf countries for aiding children in
emergencies.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2018:

Global commitment
In 2018, UNICEF continued to lead
nutrition, education and WASH
clusters and the Child Protection
Area of Responsibility – international
partnerships that coordinate
humanitarian sectoral response.
With the support of cluster partners,
UNICEF provided direct coordination
and management support to
28 countries.

#ChildAlerts
UNICEF Child Alerts are a
briefing series intended to
draw greater public and media
attention to the challenges
faced by children in current
crisis situations. Child Alerts
in 2018 addressed crises
involving child migrants and

In addition, UNICEF collaborated
with 1,403 civil society partners on
humanitarian programming, nearly
67 per cent of which were national
partners. UNICEF also continues to
work with partners who have staff on
standby to scale up a rapid response
at the onset of an emergency.
In 2018, 22 standby partners
responded to emergencies with
165 deployments.

refugees in Central America
and Mexico; Rohingya children
in Bangladesh and Myanmar;
children caught up in the
violence in Kasai, Democratic
Republic of the Congo; and
conflict-affected children in the
Central African Republic.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Humanitarian action
The European Commission’s General Directorate
for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid
Operations (DG ECHO) allocated nearly €72 million
to UNICEF in 2018. Since the beginning of the crisis
in the Syrian Arab Republic, this partnership has
helped more than 1.1 million beneficiaries with
life-saving support, including nutrition, learning and
child protection. In Turkey, over 400,000 children
are benefiting from a large conditional cash transfer
programme supported by DG ECHO.
UNICEF has developed a new partnership with the
World Zakat Forum, a group of 37 zakat boards
involved in managing payments made annually under
Islamic law and used for charitable purposes. In

December 2018, the forum and its members agreed
to collaborate with UNICEF on the strategic use of
zakat funds domestically. In addition, they agreed
to consider making selected contributions directly
to UNICEF, particularly for humanitarian action,
through a joint Global Muslim Philanthropy Fund for
Children established with support from the Islamic
Development Bank.
Also in the philanthropic sector in 2018, UNICEF
partner LDS Charities supported access to quality
early childhood development and education services
for more than 30,000 refugee and host community
children in the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Kenya, the Sudan and Uganda.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In 2018, UNICEF
provided support to:
•	 Prevention and care
interventions to help nearly
5 million adolescent girls in
46 countries address child
marriage
•	 More than 1 million girls who
received skills-development,
personal‑empowerment and
employability training
•	 Nearly 18,000 schools that
now offer menstrual hygiene
management services through
UNICEF-supported programmes.
The total gender equality expense was
US$760 million.

RIGHT: Children walk along an unpaved
road in the rural village of Pa Xia in the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic.
46
© UNICEF/UN0268858/Brown

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Gender Equality

Advancing gender equality and the empowerment and rights of women and girls is
essential to realizing the rights of all children and young people. Investments in gender
equality contribute to lifelong positive outcomes for children and young people, and their
communities.
The UNICEF Gender Action Plan is a roadmap for promoting gender equality everywhere
UNICEF works and in everything UNICEF does. This work cuts across priority areas,
including health, education, child protection and adolescent development. It also
addresses harmful gender norms and promotes positive gender socialization in
childhood and adolescence.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

GENDER EQUALITY

Mainstreaming gender equality
UNICEF continues to make
organization-wide efforts aimed
at strengthening its capacity to
achieve gender results. These
efforts include expanding gender
expertise, improving evidencebased gender analysis in country
programmes and tracking the
mainstreaming of gender across
UNICEF’s work. Within UNICEF
offices, 27 gender specialists
work to make sure that gender
equality is integrated into
programme goals. All regional
offices now have gender advisers.
Partnerships are an important
part of UNICEF’s work on ending
female genital mutilation and child
marriage, and UNICEF works closely
with the United Nations Population
Fund (UNFPA) on programmes to
stop both of these violations of

girls’ and women’s rights. In 2018,
about 100,000 girls and women
received services intended to
prevent and protect them from
female genital mutilation because
of a joint programme of UNICEF
and UNFPA. Also, 6.96 million
people participated in education,
communication and social
mobilization on the practice.
Together with UNFPA, the United
Nations Entity for Gender Equality
and the Empowerment of Women
(UN Women) and the United Nations
Development Programme, UNICEF
is a core technical partner in the
Spotlight Initiative, which is aimed
at ending violence against women
and girls. UNICEF is also a member
of the Inter-Agency Network on
Women and Gender Equality chaired
by UN Women.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Gender equality

48

In 2018, the Government of the Republic of Korea
committed to funding three new projects in Chad,
Côte d’Ivoire and Myanmar under the Better Life for
Girls initiative.

Also in 2018, UNICEF became an implementing
partner of the Spotlight Initiative, a joint effort by
the United Nations and the European Union to end
violence against women and girls.

In Côte d’Ivoire, the initiative aims to help
disadvantaged and excluded girls start schooling
at the right age. It also works for increased national
capacity to provide girls with access to early
learning opportunities, as well as quality primary
and lower secondary education. In Chad, the
partnership seeks to expand inclusive education in
healthy schools that support the empowerment of
girls and young women. And in Myanmar, Better
Life for Girls supports girls’ education and the
gender-sensitive delivery of water, sanitation and
hygiene services.

Private-sector partnerships are key, as well. In 2018,
UNICEF joined UN Women and companies such
as Unilever and Cannes Lions in the Unstereotype
Alliance, which uses the power of advertising to
challenge negative gender stereotypes.
In 2018, for the third consecutive year, the
Government of Luxembourg was the only
government donor to the Gender Equality Thematic
Funding Pool – continuing its critical support for
UNICEF’s efforts to accelerate quality gender
programming at the country level.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

A girl raises her hand to answer a question at the Lire Écrire Compter Centre of Ali‑Sabieh in
Djibouti. Run by Catholic educators in the country, the centre provides learning opportunities
for vulnerable children who are not in formal schooling and have faced difficulties accessing
education services. It also offers vocational training aimed at empowering adolescents.
© UNICEF/UN0199391/Noorani

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

UNICEF’s
Communication
for Development
(C4D) programming
aims to:
•	 Increase demand for and use of quality
and inclusive services
•	 Promote the adoption of essential
family and community practices
•	 Reduce harmful social norms and
behaviours
•	 Engage and empower adolescents,
children and communities – especially
the most disadvantaged.
The main achievements for C4D in 2018
involved strengthening the quality of
C4D in UNICEF programming globally
and contributing to programme results
through C4D work in the field.
In 2018, expenditure on cross-cutting
C4D was US$58.8 million. C4D spending
linked to specific thematic sectors was
US$368.8 million.

RIGHT: Young reporters in Côte d’Ivoire
receive training in media and journalism skills
so they can tackle topics on community radio,
including children’s rights and the results of
UNICEF U-Report polls.
50
© UNICEF/UN0253901/Dejongh

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

Communication for
Development
Communication and engagement play a critical role in changing the behaviours,
traditions and social norms that can put children’s lives and futures at risk. As UNICEF
works to make sure every child survives and thrives, C4D is an essential tool for
achieving results across sectors.
Around the globe, children and young people face social and cultural barriers that affect
their lives, health, education and safety. For many, these barriers limit their opportunities
and block their potential. For example, cultural norms can legitimize stereotypes about
gender, race, disability and ethnicity, leading to discrimination, disadvantage and social
exclusion. These norms keep girls and boys away from school, deny children optimal
nutrition, normalize child abuse and neglect, and hinder communities from accessing
vital services.
The C4D programming carried out by UNICEF and its partners helps combat such
attitudes and actions.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

51

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

COMMUNICATION FOR DEVELOPMENT

Benchmarks and results
One of the year’s most significant developments was the
rollout of the first-ever set of organizational benchmarks
on C4D programming around the world. The benchmarks
monitor the quality, scale and sustainability of programme
implementation for community engagement and
behaviour change.
C4D achievements in the field in 2018 included efforts that:
	 Engaged more than 500,000 caregivers in Sierra Leone
through national inter-religious councils and the use of
interactive radio programming – leading to an 18 per
cent increase in knowledge about antenatal care visits
for pregnant women and a 12 per cent increase in
knowledge of handwashing.
	 Mobilized approximately 1,000 community volunteers in
Bangladesh and empowered communities affected by
the Rohingya refugee crisis.
	 Combined online and face-to-face engagement to reduce
stigma and promote HIV services – resulting in a 44 per
cent increase in HIV testing among adolescents in
Ukraine.
	 Supported father-to-father support groups in Pakistan,
which contributed to gains in mothers’ exclusive
breastfeeding rates, from 47 per cent to 62 per cent.

52

In 2018, C4D was also a central part of UNICEF’s
emergency response in 90 countries, including
Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of the Congo,
Madagascar and Yemen.
In the Democratic Republic of the Congo, C4D
efforts helped address two outbreaks of Ebola and
a polio outbreak. More than 25,000 local leaders,
15,000 frontline workers and 90,000 broadcasts
on 113 radio stations helped to inform and engage
12 million people on ways to prevent and treat Ebola.
Surveys on knowledge, attitudes and practices
indicated an increase in knowledge about Ebola, from
23 per cent to 91 per cent.

Leadership and advocacy
These examples are just a sampling of UNICEF’s work
in C4D in 2018. UNICEF plans to increase the use of
communication platforms, including U-Report and social
media, and further incorporate human-centred design,
behavioural economics and behavioural insights into its
approaches in 2019.
In addition, UNICEF will continue to strengthen
community engagement in cross-sectoral and life cycle
programming, with a special focus on parenting and social
norms. UNICEF will also further advance institutional
leadership and advocacy on the importance of C4D.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Kambale, 7, attends school in Beni, Democratic Republic of the Congo, where he learns about
preventing Ebola. Communication for Development was a critical part of addressing Ebola
outbreaks in the country in 2018. The effort informed and engaged 12 million people on
Ebola prevention.
©UNICEF/UN0235943/Nybo

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

UNICEF’s approach to
programming for children
and young people aims
to achieve sustained
results at scale. That
means maintaining and
expanding support from
both the public and
private sectors – as well
as non-governmental
organizations, civil
society organizations,
development agencies and
United Nations partners.

RIGHT: Children celebrate World Children’s
Day in Dhaka at a Goodwill Cricket Match
organized by UNICEF Bangladesh and the
Bangladesh Cricket Board.
54
© UNICEF/UN0266662/Mawa

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Partnership and
Stewardship
In 2018, UNICEF’s total revenue increased by 2 per cent over 2017, to US$6.7 billion.
Of that amount, US$5 billion represented contributions from intergovernmental
organizations, inter-organizational arrangements and 139 governments.
The three largest public-sector contributors to UNICEF were the Governments of the
United States, the United Kingdom and Germany.
Regular Resources – which are unrestricted and flexible – rose by 27 per cent in 2018,
to US$1.8 billion. Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United
States were the largest contributors to Regular Resources. Of special note are the
generous increased donations made to Regular Resources in 2018, including a multi-year
commitment by Sweden of US$294 million over four years.
Private-sector revenue from UNICEF National Committees, individual donors, nongovernmental organizations and foundations remained strong at US$1.5 billion.
Given the high number of protracted crises affecting children worldwide in 2018, UNICEF
made its largest-ever funding request for humanitarian action: US$3.8 billion. While
actual funding fell far short of that appeal, half of the organization’s total expenses for the
year went to humanitarian action for children.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

55

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

New funding mechanisms
UNICEF worked to effect change for
children worldwide using a variety of
unique new funding mechanisms in
2018. A total of 28 new mechanisms
leveraged more than US$750 million.
For example, an innovative financial
arrangement with the social enterprise Conceptos Plásticos supported
the construction of classrooms in
Côte d’Ivoire, with a cost saving of
40 per cent through the use of bricks
made from recycled plastic waste.
UNICEF also worked closely with
the World Bank and other partners to
develop public and private financing
mechanisms for early action in humanitarian situations – which can prevent
them from reaching crisis levels.
In 2018, the Pandemic Emergency
Financing Facility enabled a rapid
response to the Ebola outbreak in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Engagement with businesses
Throughout the year, UNICEF
deepened its engagement with
businesses to innovate, replicate
and scale up programming –
especially for the most vulnerable
children – with a focus on creating
shared-value partnerships.
UNICEF forged such partnerships
with the LEGO Foundation and the
LEGO Group to advance early childhood development and children’s
rights. And its partnership with
Amadeus allowed the use of global
flight data for tracking the Zika virus,
dengue fever and natural disasters.
In 2018, Amadeus’s overall
contribution to UNICEF helped
protect 125,000 pregnant
women with iron and folic acid
supplementation, and supported
education for 200,000 children.

In addition, the partnership with
LIXIL provided vulnerable people
in Ethiopia, Kenya and the United
Republic of Tanzania with access
to quality sanitation products,
assisting in the effort to end to the
health-threatening practice of open
defecation.
More than 1,500 companies also
engaged in dialogue with UNICEF
about bolstering their practices on
child rights. Over 340 companies
took action, integrating child
safeguards into their management
practices, addressing employment
conditions that affect early childhood
development and strengthening
online child safety – among other
advances.

Total UNICEF revenue by source and funding type, 2018*
(in millions of US dollars)

Governments and
intergovernmental agencies

Private sector and
non-governmental organizations

Regular resources

Regular resources

$894 million = 13%

$739 million = 11%

Other resources

Other resources

$3,509 million = 53%

$722 million = 11%

Total $6,676 million

Inter-organizational arrangements
Other resources

$638 million = 10%
Other revenue **
$173 million = 3%

* The figures for 2018 are provisional and are subject to audit.
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
NOTE: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

56

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

Strategic procurement
At the same time, UNICEF continued
leveraging markets globally to
maximize its resources. In 2018, the
organization procured US$3.5 billion
in supplies and services from
more than 11,000 businesses in
175 countries. Through strategic
approaches to procurement,
it realized cost savings of
US$351 million.
During the year, UNICEF convened
11 separate industry consultations
with over 220 businesses involved
in producing vaccines, medicines,
diagnostics, insecticide-treated nets
to prevent malaria, and nutrition and
sanitation products. These strategic
dialogues helped UNICEF and its
business partners and suppliers
extend the availability of innovative,
high-quality, affordable products to
meet children’s needs.

Innovation and research
In fact, UNICEF has accelerated
results for children and young people
through innovation across the board.
In 2018, 57 per cent of UNICEF
programme countries used real-time
and digital technologies – including
technologies such as RapidPro,
U-Report, Primero and Magic Box –
at scale.
Other innovation concepts received
support for their potential to scale
up. One example was a concept for
bundling pneumonia diagnostics,
oxygen and Amoxicillin to reduce
child pneumonia deaths; another
involved bundling sanitation, nutrition
and booster immunizations with
the vaccination of adolescent girls
against the human papillomavirus.
Investments in these areas will help
accelerate progress on child and
adolescent health and well-being.

To monitor such progress – and
to highlight areas needing greater
attention – UNICEF plays a leading
role in generating evidence on the
situation of children worldwide. The
largest-ever round of multiple indicator cluster surveys was initiated
in 2018, with 67 surveys confirmed
for implementation by 2020. These
household surveys help track
progress towards the SDG targets
on learning outcomes, water quality,
disability and other issues.
As the custodian or supporting
agency for the monitoring of 17 SDG
indicators, UNICEF also spearheaded
new data collection methodologies
and tools during the year.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: International Council
November 2018 saw the
first annual meeting of the
International Council, a
collective of UNICEF’s most
influential philanthropic
partners that enables them to
catalyse further progress and
commitments for children.
Held at the UNICEF Office
of Research–Innocenti, the
meeting focused on topics
such as the global learning
crisis, financial innovation,
future trends and the power
of research to inform policy
and practice.

Also in 2018, the council organized
an International Youth Forum
bringing together young people
from Afghanistan, Finland,
Ireland, Liberia, Nepal, the United
Kingdom and the United States.
The youth delegates included
donors’ children as well as young
people from countries involved
in the Let Us Learn programme,
an education initiative supported
by International Council
members Stefan and Susan
Findel. In the closing plenary,
the delegates presented a set
of recommendations for action
– including the promotion of
meaningful youth participation in
all sectors, and greater investment
in life skills and livelihood
opportunities for young people. 

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Living UNICEF’s values
UNICEF advanced its efforts to
strengthen internal management
in 2018, as well. The organization
prioritized improving its response
to sexual misconduct and all forms
of workplace abuse, and undertook
several initiatives to reaffirm its
core values.
In March 2018, the Executive
Director launched three external
reviews of UNICEF’s response to
sexual exploitation and abuse, sexual
harassment, and workplace gender
discrimination, harassment and
abuse of authority. UNICEF has since
appointed a Senior Coordinator,
Sexual Exploitation and Abuse and
Workplace Abuse, to accelerate
and enhance its response to these
reviews.

UNICEF’s response – including its
work with other United Nations
agencies – encompasses support
for safe and accessible reporting
mechanisms, high-quality and
accessible survivors’ assistance,
enhanced accountability and timely,
credible investigations.
In June 2018, after an additional
independent review of its data,
policies and practices, UNICEF earned
Economic Dividends for Gender
Equality (EDGE) certification, the
leading standard for gender equality.
It was the first United Nations
agency to earn EDGE certification.

governance, risk management,
controls and transparency. It also
made concerted efforts to bolster its
management culture. Those efforts
placed a consistent emphasis on
supporting staff as the single most
important asset UNICEF has.
UNICEF’s global workforce and its
resource partners are central to
delivering results for children and
living UNICEF’s values under the new
Strategic Plan. To all those who provided critical support in 2018 and will
remain engaged in the years ahead,
UNICEF extends its deepest thanks
and appreciation.

For its part, UNICEF issued 17 audit
reports in 2018, generating 196 agreed
actions to strengthen its internal

@UNICEF partnerships in 2018: Key support
The Government of the United States was the
largest supporter of UNICEF in 2018, providing
US$751 million in overall funding, and was also the
largest contributor to flexible Regular Resources
– which are essential for UNICEF to respond
immediately and efficiently to crises. The United
States was the largest contributor to UNICEF’s
humanitarian action programmes, as well.
The Government of the United Kingdom was the
second largest overall contributor to UNICEF in
2018, providing US$538 million in critical support for
global programming in education, health, nutrition,
and water, sanitation and hygiene. The United
Kingdom played an ongoing advocacy role on issues
such as disability and gender, and signed a multiyear core funding agreement for 2018 through 2021.
With an annual contribution of more than
€392 million, the Government of Germany remained
UNICEF’s third largest resource partner in 2018.

58

The German Parliament also increased its core
contribution to UNICEF for 2018, sending a strong
signal of support.
Contributing more than US$245 million in 2018,
the Government of Sweden held its position as the
second largest government donor to UNICEF’s core
resources, as well as flexible thematic funding.
Sweden also signed a core funding agreement
to contribute at least US$300 million from 2018
through 2021.
In addition, UNICEF received more than €197 million
from the European Union to aid children affected by
the crisis in the Syrian Arab Republic. This support
included €125.5 million from the European Union
Regional Trust Fund in Response to the Syrian Crisis
(known as the Madad Fund) to provide education,
protection and youth engagement opportunities
to Syrian refugee children and their peers in host
communities in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey. 

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

Two children take a break from playing in the schoolyard of Kindergarten Number 6 in
Tbilisi, Georgia. UNICEF provides the Government of Georgia with support as it implements
the country’s early education rules. Education that includes all children, regardless of ability
or disability, is an important part of the law in Georgia – and of UNICEF’s global work in this
sector.
© UNICEF/UN040279/Gurgenidze

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

59

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

UNICEF revenue, 2012–2018
(in millions of US dollars)
Regular resources
Other resources (regular)
Other resources (emergency)

$3,500
$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500
0
2012

2013

2014*

2015*

2016*

2017

2018

* 2014–2016 revenue figures have been restated to reflect UNICEF’s 2017 revenue recognition policy.

Top 10 countries, contributions received by donor and funding type, 2018*
(in millions of US dollars)

$700

Government: Regular resources

Private sector: Regular resources

Government: Other resources

Private sector: Other resources

$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
0

United
States

United
Kingdom

Germany

Sweden

Japan

Netherlands

Norway

Canada

Republic
of Korea

* Includes contributions received from governments and UNICEF National Committees; excludes intergovernmental,
non-governmental, inter-organizational and pooled funds contributions.

60

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Spain

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Per capita contributions received by UNICEF, 2018*
Member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
(in US dollars)

Norway

42.43

Iceland

35.64

Sweden

32.04

Luxembourg

21.24

Netherlands

13.41

Denmark

11.59

United Kingdom

9.05

Switzerland

6.99

Germany

6.65

Finland

5.95

Ireland

5.58

Canada

4.35

Belgium

4.31

United States

3.14

Republic of Korea

3.13

New Zealand

2.52

Australia

2.02

Japan

1.92

Spain

1.90

Italy

1.31

France

1.30

Austria

1.08

Portugal

0.65

Slovenia

0.53

Hungary

0.35

Czechia

0.34

Poland

0.26

Greece

0.11

Slovakia

0.05

$0

$5

$10

$15

$20

$25

$30

$35

$40

$45

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

61

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 partners to regular resources
by contributions received, 2018
(in millions of US dollars)
COUNTRY

Thematic contributions received,
2017–2018
(in millions of US dollars)

REGULAR RESOURCES

2017

2018

United States

133

Health

OUTCOME AREAS

16

13

Republic of Korea (NC*)

100

HIV and AIDS

13

9

Japan (NC)

99

Nutrition

17

7

Sweden

93

Education

87

100

Spain (NC)

59

Child protection

27

29

Germany

58

WASH

33

66

Norway

53

Safe and clean environment

–

1

United Kingdom

51

Social inclusion

5

6

Germany (NC)

49

Gender equality

1

1

France (NC)

48

Humanitarian

164

154

Sweden (NC)

46

Total

363

386

Netherlands (NC)

41

Netherlands

35

United States (NC)

34

Italy (NC)

33

Switzerland

23

United Kingdom (NC)

19

Japan

19

Belgium

19

Australia

14

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

* National Committee for UNICEF

Multi-year regular resources partners, 2016–2018
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)
DONOR COUNTRY
NAME

MULTI-YEAR AGREEMENT**

REVENUE*

PERIOD
2016

2018

TOTAL

–

294

294

–

–

122

122

–

72

(1)

71

5 years (2016–2020)

16

49

(3)

62

Switzerland

4 years (2018–2021)

–

–

61

61

Canada

4 years (2018–2021)

–

–

48

48

Qatar

2 years (2019–2020)

–

–

8

8

16

121

529

665

Sweden

4 years (2018–2021)

–

United Kingdom

3 years (2018–2020)

Belgium

4 years (2017–2020)

Australia

Grand Total

2017

* Revenue is recognized, for the most part, in the year the agreement is signed and amounts in other years represent revaluation due to
exchange rate fluctuations.
** Revenue data exclude write-downs.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

62

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Top 30 resource partners by contributions received, 2018
(in millions of US dollars)
REGULAR
RESOURCES

PARTNER
United States

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

Regular

Emergency

133

133

486

751

United Kingdom

51

243

243

538

Germany

58

199

194

450

European Commission

–

247

135

382

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)*

–

–

318

318

United States (NC**)

34

207

33

274

Sweden

93

115

38

245

Norway

53

101

52

207

Netherlands

35

80

55

170

Canada

12

76

59

147

–

125

–

125

Japan

19

44

59

123

Japan (NC)

99

13

10

121

100

15

0

115

49

18

30

97

–

91

5

95

Spain (NC)

59

16

7

82

Sweden (NC)

46

20

10

75

–

68

–

68

United Kingdom (NC)

19

30

16

65

France (NC)

48

10

6

64

0

–

62

62

41

12

6

59

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)***

–

31

18

50

Denmark

9

22

15

46

Republic of Korea

4

34

7

45

Switzerland

23

10

8

40

Italy (NC)

33

2

4

39

6

19

14

39

14

7

18

39

GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance

Republic of Korea (NC)
Germany (NC)
World Bank Group

United Nations Development Group joint programmes

Kuwait
Netherlands (NC)

Italy
Australia

* Contributions received from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs include $132.1 million related to the Central Emergency
Response Fund and $186.2 million related to other sources, including $151.5 million of pass-through contribution from Saudi Arabia and the
United Arab Emirates.
** National Committee for UNICEF.
*** Contributions received from the United Nations Development Programme include $3.9 million related to the Common Humanitarian Fund
and $46.0 million related to joint programmes and One Fund.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

63

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Private foundations and major donors contributing $100,000 or more
to UNICEF programmes in 2018
AEON 1% Club Foundation
AJA Charitable Foundation
The Ajram Family Foundation
Akelius Foundation
Al Ansari
AlAbdulla Family
Nazanin Alakija
ALFI Foundation
Allie and Mark Allyn
Alwaleed Philanthropies
Moll and Charlie Anderson
Jim and Donna Barber
Mrs. Amy B. Barovick and
Mr. Jon E. Barovick
Jennifer Paradis Behle and
Tim Behle
Beijing ARTMIA Foundation
Big Heart Foundation
The Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation
Susan and Dan Boggio
Charlotte and Peter Bolland
Robert and Hilary Brinker
Bruce and Jina Veaco Foundation
Daniel J. Brutto
Cartier Philanthropy
Cathal Ryan Trust
The Catherine and Will Rose
Family Fund
The Charles Engelhard Foundation
Children’s Investment Fund
Foundation
R&H L Chung
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
Dato Sri Lai Chai Suang
Mark and Marian Deere
The Dietz Family Fund
Dining for Women
Dubai Cares
Mr. and Mrs. Steve Eaton
Educate A Child, A Programme of
Education Above All Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Gary Edwards
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Eisenson

64

Elbert H., Evelyn J., and Karen H.
Waldron Charitable Foundation
The ELEVA Foundation
Eva Ahlström Foundation
FIA Foundation
Stefan Findel and Susan CummingsFindel
Fondation Botnar
Fondation Espoir, under the aegis
of Fondation de Luxembourg
Fundación Bancaria La Caixa
Fundación Carlos Slim
Fundación Leo Messi
Dr. Dolores Rice Gahan and
Mr. Thomas J. Gahan
The Garrett Family Foundation
Gates Philanthropy Partners
Gebauer Stiftung
George Lucas Family Foundation
GHR Foundation
Ms. Kaia Miller Goldstein and
Mr. Jonathan Goldstein
Mark and Ana Maria Gordon
Gratitude for Water Foundation
Mr. H. Stephen Harris, Jr. and
Ms. Shigeko Ikeda
Hempel Foundation
Henderson Warmth Foundation &
Lee Shau Kee Foundation
Mr. Dariush and Mrs. Nazanin Hosseini
Houssian Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Hristov and Elena Hristov
IKEA Foundation
Impetus Foundation in honor of
Alvarez and Fernandez families
Paula Hern and Tom Barbour of
the JLH Foundation
J.T. Tai & Co. Foundation, Inc.
Japan Committee, Vaccines for
the World’s Children
Pasi Joronen
Soon-Sook Kang
Myungshin Kim
Kiwanis International

Klaus Friedrich Foundation
Klaus und Gertrud Conrad
Foundation
Tetsuko Kuroyanagi
Kuwait Foundation for the
Advancement of Science
Kwok Foundation
Peter and Deborah Lamm
G. Barrie Landry, Landry Family
Foundation
LDS Charities
Ms. Téa Leoni
Elena Likhach
Bob and Tamar Manoukian
Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies
Margaret Alkek Williams and
the Albert and Margaret Alkek
Foundation
Mastercard Foundation
Mr. John W. McNear
MedHum
Chuck, Jamie and Lucy Meyer
David Mimran
Megha and Aditya Mittal
The Morgan Foundation
Morris Braun Foundation
Tadashi Murayama
National Philanthropic Trust
Nenäpäivä-säätiö
New Era Educational and
Charitable Foundation
New Venture Fund
Niels Espersen and Kindmore
Novo Nordisk Foundation
Obel Family Foundation
The One Foundation
Pacific Leading Limited
Purvi and Harsh Padia
The Power of Nutrition
Randell Charitable Fund
Manizeh and Danny Rimer
Sally and John Roberts
The Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust (Re&Act)

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rogers
Michael Rosenberg
Rotary International / The Rotary
Foundation
Rusy and Purviz Shroff Charitable
Foundation
Schmidt Futures
Barbara and Edward Shapiro
ShareGift
H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al
Nahyan, Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi
SHO
Torild Skard
Brian and Laurel Smith
Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus W. Spurlino
Nicola Squicciarino
Mr. and Mrs. Kirill Tatarinov
Ms. Julie Taymor
Tinker Foundation
The Tom Mikuni and Minnie Obe
Hirayama Charitable Fund
Byron and Tina Trott
UNICEF Children’s Foundation
The Velux Foundation
Wafic Said
William and Flora Hewlett Foundation
Win-Win Compassion for Children
Peter and Jan Winslow
Dr. Hu Xiang
Ng Sze Ying
Ms. Wang Ying
Yip Foundation
Youri Djorkaeff Foundation
Zonta International

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

Corporate sector alliances contributing $100,000 or more to UNICEF programmes in 2018
MULTI-COUNTRY ALLIANCES

Abertis
Alex and Ani
Amadeus IT Group
Arm Ltd.
BEKO
Belarto
Big Hit Entertainment
Cartier Philanthropy
Change for Good [Aer Lingus
(Ireland), American Airlines
(United States), Asiana Airlines
(Republic of Korea); Cathay
Pacific (Hong Kong, China), Cebu
Pacific Air (Philippines), easyJet
(United Kingdom), Japan Airlines
(Japan), Hainan Airlines (China),
Tianjin Airlines (China), Qantas
Airways Ltd. (Australia)]
Cubus AS
DLA Piper
Ethical Tea Partnership
Facebook, Inc.
Fundación FCBarcelona
GARDENA Manufacturing GmbH
Garnier
Google
Groupe Editor
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
H&M Foundation
Hallmark
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
IKEA Group
ING
Johnson & Johnson, Inc.
Kantar Group
Kimberly-Clark Corporation
Les Mills International
Linkmedia
LIXIL Corporation
L’Occitane
L’Oréal
Louis Vuitton Malletier
MAC Cosmetics
Melia Hotels International
Microsoft Corp.
Millicom
MMG Ltd.
Moncler
Montblanc
MSC Cruises SA
Nordic Choice Hotels AS
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA
Philips Foundation
Pictura
Primark Limited
Privalia Venta Directa SA

Procter & Gamble (Pampers)
ROTA (1 in 11)
Royal DSM
Samsung
Starwood Hotels & Resorts (now
Marriott International, Inc.), (Road
to Awareness®, Check Out for
Children®, Make a Green Choice®)
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company
Limited
Telenor Group
The Walt Disney Company
Unilever
Volvic
NATIONAL ALLIANCES

Argentina
Chubb Seguros Argentina
Farmacity
L’Oréal Argentina
Prisma S.A. – Visa, Banelco,
Pagomiscuentas, Todo Pago
Australia
CBA
Belgium
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (GSK)
Umicore
Brazil
Amil
CELPE/BNDES
CPFL Renováveis
Fundação Itaú Social
Instituto Net Claro Embratel
Neoenergia
Sanofi
Bulgaria
Happy Bar & Grill
Piraeus bank
Canada
Teck Resources Ltd.
China
Porsche (China) Motors Ltd.
Tencent Foundation
Colombia
Banco de Bogotá (CPTP)
Ecuador
Diners Club International
Finland
Eva Ahlström Foundation
Nokia
France
Clairefontaine
Fondation Chanel
Fondation Sanofi Espoir
Néo-Soft
Germany
BASF Foundation / BASF SE

Hugo Boss AG
United Internet for UNICEF Foundation
Gulf countries
Level Kids
Visa
Hong Kong
VF Coporation
India
Bridgestone
Sun Foundation
Japan
AEON 1% Club Foundation
Consumers’ Co-Operative Mirai
Co-op Deli Consumers’ Co-operative
Union
COOP SAPPORO
Fuji Television Network, Inc. (FNS
Charity Campaign)
Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
IDOM Inc.
ITOHAM FOODS Inc.
Japanese Consumers’ Co-operative
Union
Japanet Holdings Co.,Ltd.
Kao Corporation
MUFG Bank, Ltd.
Saraya Co., Ltd.
SHISEIDO CO., LTD.
Sugarlady Co., Ltd.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company, Ltd.
U CO-OP Consumer Co-operative
Society
Malaysia
BonusKad Loyalty Sdn Bhd
Mexico
Impresos de Seguridad SignalRaspadito
The Netherlands
Nationale Postcode Loterij
TUi Care Foundation
Norway
DNB
KIWI Norge AS
Philippines
SM Prime Holdings
Romania
JYSK Romania
Lidl Romania
Serbia
Nordeus
PHI Academy
South Africa
Woolworths Trust
South Korea
BGF Retail
SM Entertainment

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

Spain
Banco Santander
Bankia
El Corte Inglés
Forletter
FOXY – Industrie Cartarie Tronchetti
Fundación Aquae
Fundación Iberostar
Fundación Nous Cimss
Iberia
Tubacex
Sweden
Akelius
Brynäs IF
Gina Tricot
M-magasin
NCC AB
NoRR
Svenska PostkodLotteriet
Sandvik Coromant
Switzerland
ALDI SUISSE AG
Thailand
Sansiri Public Company Ltd.
United Kingdom
BT Group plc
Clarks
GlaxoSmithKline
London Stock Exchange Group
Manchester United Football Club
Andy Murray
The National Lottery Community Fund
Nitto ATP Finals
Twinings
VitalityHealth
Vivendi
Wella
United States
Amazon
Apple Matching Gifts Program
Applied Medical
Brooks
Carnival Corporation & plc
Cokem International Ltd
Fondation Chanel
Georgia-Pacific LLC
Global Impact
Hasbro
Lam Research Foundation
L’Oréal USA: Giorgio Armani
Fragrances
Prudential Financial
Salesforce.org
S’well
Target Corporation
The UPS Foundation

65

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 National Committee donors, 2018
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)
COUNTRY

REGULAR RESOURCES**

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

34

236

270

117

25

142

Republic of Korea

88

15

103

Germany

44

51

95

Spain

60

21

82

Sweden

45

28

73

United Kingdom***

24

48

72

France

54

16

70

Netherlands

38

19

56

Italy

38

6

44

Norway

11

13

24

Denmark

13

8

22

3

16

19

Hong Kong, China

12

7

19

Finland

12

6

18

Belgium

14

3

18

Canada

8

6

14

Australia

4

7

11

Poland

6

3

9

Ireland

3

5

8

United States
Japan

Switzerland

* National Committee ranking is based on revenue amounts in order to be comparable to fundraising plans that are also revenue based.
** Regular resources excludes Other contributions.	
*** 2018 contributions from the UK National Committee include $744,146 from Jersey Overseas Aid, which is an independent international
aid agency, funded by the States of Jersey.			
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.				

Top 10 National Committees by advocacy contribution to children, 2018
(revenue in US dollars)
COUNTRY
United States

Advocacy
10,219,666

United Kingdom

3,521,243

Spain

2,956,220

Switzerland

2,956,163

France

2,882,050

Netherlands

2,828,218

Germany

2,657,034

Italy

2,093,177

Canada

1,615,309

South Korea

1,345,893

66

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2018
(in US dollars)
OVERVIEW
Regular resources

1. Countries*

Other
Contributions ***

Other resources

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

894,453,122

691,942,856

2,896,741,883

697,345,501

46,863,265

5,227,346,626

2. Intergovernmental
agencies

–

–

612,742,600

–

–

612,742,600

3. Non-governmental
organizations

–

444,269

–

24,495,496

–

24,939,765

4. Inter-organizational
arrangements

–

–

637,857,414

–

–

637,857,414

5. Other revenue**
Grand Total

–

–

–

–

–

172,872,200

894,453,122

692,387,124

4,147,341,898

721,840,997

46,863,265

6,675,758,605

* Includes contributions from governments, National Committees and country offices–private sector.
** Other revenue includes income from interest, procurement and other sources.
*** Contributions for specific management activities.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

1. DONORS
Countries*	
Regular resources
Donors
Afghanistan
Andorra
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
(Plurinational
State of)
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cameroon
Canada
Central African
Republic

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

67,853

–

11,429,331

–

–

11,497,184

29,611

161,211

344,210

263,062

–

798,093

216,667

–

–

–

–

216,667

205,000

15,888,450

–

8,507,411

7,911,672

32,512,533

116,590

–

–

–

–

116,590

(3,009,870)

4,307,797

29,696,129

7,134,730

–

38,128,786

1,257,011

3,675,431

5,882,714

873,534

–

11,688,690

50,809

–

–

366,781

–

417,589

195,575

–

–

–

–

195,575

–

–

–

237,181

–

237,181

(1,133,581)

14,234,033

10,927,985

3,487,606

–

27,516,043

24,124

–

3,754,673

–

–

3,778,797

43,553

–

–

–

–

43,553

165,000

–

225,000

88,422

–

478,422

1,619,788

1,420,564

259,875

9,117,825

3,387,788

15,805,839

77,500

62,273

61,728

944,407

312,169

1,458,077

5,464

–

2,089,824

–

–

2,095,288

–

–

12,521,304

–

–

12,521,304

350,000

–

–

–

–

350,000

–

–

688,113

–

–

688,113

47,812,384

7,822,497

80,688,470

6,181,413

–

142,504,763

44,000

–

–

–

–

44,000

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

67

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2018, continued

Regular resources
Donors
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Czech Republic
Democratic
People's Republic
of Korea
Democratic
Republic of the
Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominican
Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic
Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan

68

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

54,160

–

7,243,338

–

–

77,000

2,750,206

–

1,895,067

2,653,955

7,297,498
7,376,228

1,849,998

608,659

–

12,249,383

1,895,267

16,603,308

–

1,789,489

189,023

3,014,396

2,377,027

7,369,935

70,000

–

1,852,398

–

–

1,922,398

748,450

–

(9,776)

–

–

738,674

16,772

1,397

–

291,106

–

309,275

12,600

–

10,484,824

–

–

10,497,424

38,829

476,729

228,311

3,022,278

882,442

4,648,588

10,000

–

–

–

–

10,000

–

2,287,237

672,269

953,845

–

3,913,351

130,070

–

–

–

–

130,070

318,000

–

16,710,382

–

–

17,028,382

9,079,108

13,224,881

37,089,327

8,447,219

–

67,840,535

–

–

1,000,000

–

–

1,000,000

88,000

–

–

270,745

–

358,745

–

607,947

–

3,116,502

1,799,997

5,524,446

–

3,119

–

364,546

–

367,665

108,612

–

463,595

–

–

572,207

170,455

–

1,114,927

–

–

1,285,382

285,436

–

1,095,932

–

–

1,381,368

6,642,512

12,337,670

3,727,001

6,093,935

–

28,801,119

4,171,779

54,082,640

15,072,703

15,646,751

–

88,973,872

89,452

–

–

–

–

89,452

–

–

1,802,633

–

–

1,802,633

155,000

–

–

–

–

155,000

57,823,188

44,490,050

407,533,680

50,653,755

–

560,500,673

148,512

–

–

–

–

148,512

–

(61,040)

–

14,091

–

(46,949)

–

–

–

23,432

–

23,432

350,000

–

4,537,943

–

–

4,887,943

621,000

–

–

–

–

621,000

600

–

5,456,273

–

–

5,456,873

25,944

–

–

9,956

–

35,900

–

11,949,888

–

6,823,639

–

18,773,527
3,369,137

2,922,876

355,231

–

91,029

–

1,281,415

4,601,639

2,739,180

261,789

–

8,884,024

893,131

–

7,367,099

3,600,407

3,536,229

15,396,867

474,970

1,122,140

2,286,022

4,568,735

2,334,014

10,785,882

24,619

575

–

179,364

–

204,559

48,785

–

–

–

–

48,785

8,333,333

3,287,276

8,564,155

4,679,363

–

24,864,128

–

–

–

37,308

–

37,308

5,909,486

37,820,599

26,500,811

5,811,216

–

76,042,113

18,918,327

117,075,889

103,119,454

25,323,178

–

264,436,848

802,963

–

–

–

–

802,963

226,970

–

1,000,000

–

–

1,226,970

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2018, continued

Regular resources
Donors
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lesotho
Liberia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of
Moldova
Romania
Russian
Federation
Sao Tome and
Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

150,000

–

–

–

–

150,000

200,000

–

64,550,000

7,278,816

–

72,028,816

50,000

–

–

–

–

50,000

120,000

–

–

–

–

120,000
2,648,114

–

–

2,648,114

–

–

25,075

–

–

–

–

25,075

980

–

23,560

82,818

–

107,358

3,182,870

993,107

4,200,327

2,227,077

–

10,603,381

–

–

4,433,351

–

–

4,433,351

–

–

21,985,721

–

–

21,985,721

290,561

6,996,987

100,000

3,486,527

8,044,060

18,918,136

33,500

–

3,840,000

–

–

3,873,500

91

–

56,791

–

–

56,883

20,610

–

–

–

–

20,610

–

1,058,393

950,000

4,822,389

2,067,626

8,898,408

29,869

–

48,035

–

–

77,904

112,408

–

–

–

–

112,408

18,912

–

–

–

–

18,912

101,122

275

–

–

–

101,397

7,500

–

1,491,989

–

–

1,499,489

44,050

–

14,694,139

–

–

14,738,189

120,000

–

–

–

–

120,000

35,274,211

37,717,803

185,505,655

18,768,178

–

277,265,847

149,751

1,628,641

8,295,219

2,762,417

–

12,836,028

41,147

–

–

4,297

–

45,444

1,820,291

2,548

25,941,750

(1,061)

–

27,763,528

53,307,501

10,843,050

221,368,691

12,904,240

–

298,423,482

–

–

900,000

–

–

900,000

49,653

–

2,844,141

–

–

2,893,794

768,500

–

375,000

17,239

–

1,160,739

–

–

–

1,535,216

–

1,535,216

–

448,307

–

1,038,193

920,274

2,406,774

46,995

523,579

–

2,259,834

2,463,483

5,293,892

–

5,700,719

272,224

2,925,185

–

8,898,128

65,506

5,230,964

(1,368)

1,429,588

–

6,724,690

8,000,000

3,970

18,000,000

45,748,982

–

71,752,951

3,978,099

87,581,942

56,756,790

15,063,630

–

163,380,462

63,000

–

–

–

–

63,000

50,000

206,459

352,534

906,844

374,667

1,890,504

1,000,000

30,145

–

(6,772)

–

1,023,373

19,500

–

–

–

–

19,500

1,072,000

–

36,642,511

1,241,025

–

38,955,536

398,500

–

–

–

–

398,500

51,000

129,494

–

821,221

227,263

1,228,978

423,098

–

8,114,662

–

–

8,537,760

50,000

–

–

85,737

–

135,737

12,346

69,549

–

167,212

–

249,106

36,232

848,340

37,267

154,598

–

1,076,437

–

–

151,175

–

–

151,175

439,881

–

–

–

–

439,881

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

69

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2018, continued

Regular resources
Donors
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Trinidad and
Tobago
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab
Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of
Tanzania
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
(Bolivarian
Republic of)
Viet Nam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Other
Revenue
Adjustments
Total

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

–

–

–

718,499

248,074

966,572

–

–

4,999,221

–

–

4,999,221

575,506

60,396,790

5,466,035

21,233,678

–

87,672,009

15,500

753

–

–

–

16,253

272,764

–

12,456,477

–

–

12,729,241

294,354,112

44,867,485

216,989,126

28,426,283

–

584,637,006

60,718,301

3,164,135

19,983,502

16,279,285

–

100,145,223

32,400

–

–

–

–

32,400

567,986

3,666,755

–

9,472,244

4,308,459

18,015,445

100,000

–

–

–

–

100,000

26,000

–

261,345

–

–

287,345

15,000

–

–

–

–

15,000

204,835

1,833,578

–

1,659,042

–

3,697,454

62,746

–

–

–

–

62,746

469,000

–

1,855,855

666,576

–

2,991,431

–

–

–

112,599

–

112,599

641,971

459,589

699,592

11,765,052

–

13,566,203

121,818,752

23,820,708

524,568,368

47,692,655

–

717,900,483

22,000

–

3,296,203

–

–

3,318,203

132,500,000

34,321,356

617,817,824

235,564,514

500,000

1,020,703,694

144,900

2,362,358

–

1,997,373

605,270

5,109,901

310,000

–

–

80,271

–

390,271

–

1,088

–

125,496

13,528

140,112

14,254

3,789

–

–

–

18,043

257,520

–

1,525,600

–

–

1,783,120

–

–

1,357,691

–

–

1,357,691

19,868

645,721

(234)

84,016

–

749,371

(1,374,881)

–

(25,523,860)

1,099,080

–

(25,799,661)

894,453,122

691,942,856

2,896,741,883

697,345,501

46,863,265

5,227,346,626

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees.
** Contributions for specific management activities.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding. Negative amounts against countries, for the most part, are due to revaluation.

2. INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES
(Public sector)	
European Commission

368,864,691

GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance

95,644,974

Global Partnership for Education
Other resources

13,094,066

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)

46,946,257

UNITAID

70

119,142,721

Nutrition International

2,042,933

Revenue Adjustments

(32,993,041)

Total

612,742,600

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2018, continued

3. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
(Private sector)
Regular resources

Other

444,269

Subtotal

444,269

Education Cannot Wait Fund

18,079,450

End Violence Fund
Other resources

5,651,051

End Violence Secretariat

50,000

Other

438,633

Revenue Adjustments

276,362

Subtotal

24,495,496

Total

24,939,765

4. INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
(Public sector)
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
International Labour Organization (ILO)
International Organization for Migration (IOM)
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)

275,500
5,450,603
316,143,994
218,280

United Nations Development Group joint programmes

67,527,909

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)

51,841,838

United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)
Other resources

821,007

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

179,543
1,311,207

United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)

11,833,798

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)

28,149,522

United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS

7,045,143

United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security (UNTFHS)
World Bank Group

713,856
146,306,200

World Food Programme (WFP)
World Health Organization (WHO)
Other

2,774,717
685,297
903

Revenue Adjustments

(3,421,904)

Total

637,857,414

5. OTHER REVENUE*
Total

172,872,200

GRAND TOTAL
6,675,758,605

* Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2018

71

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

For every child
Whoever she is.
Wherever he lives.
Every child deserves a childhood.
A future.
A fair chance.
That’s why UNICEF is there.
For each and every child.
Working day in and day out.
In 190 countries and territories.
Reaching the hardest to reach.
The furthest from help.
The most left behind.
The most excluded.
It’s why we stay to the end.
And never give up.

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017, USA
pubdoc@unicef.org
www.unicef.org
ISBN: 978-92-806-5032-7
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
June 2019

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

