Responding to
COVID-19
UNICEF Annual Report 2020

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017, USA
Contact: pubdoc@unicef.org
Website: www.unicef.org
Suggested citation. Responding to COVID-19: UNICEF Annual Report 2020.
New York: United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 2020.
ISBN: 978-92-806-5223-9
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), June 2021

Cover photograph: © UNICEF/UNI372363/Pouget

Data in this report are drawn
from the most recent available
statistics from UNICEF and
other United Nations agencies,
annual reports prepared by
UNICEF country offices, and
the Annual Report of the
Executive Director of UNICEF
presented to the Executive
Board in June 2021.
For any corrigenda found
subsequent to printing,
please visit our website at
www.unicef.org/publications.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Responding to
COVID-19
UNICEF Annual Report 2020

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Foreword

The global crisis sparked by the COVID-19 pandemic
has been unprecedented in its scope and the inequality
of its impact.
In one short year, it wiped out hard-won development
gains for children and pushed more families into poverty.
It also revealed – and in many cases, widened – the
gulf between those people who have access to critical
services and support and those who do not.

And as children face a rapidly changing world, UNICEF
is standing with them, looking ahead to the challenges
on the horizon. In my annual letter earlier this year,
I highlighted five opportunities to not only respond
to COVID-19, but also to reimagine a better world for
every child: providing equal access to vaccines for all;
revolutionizing learning through bridging the digital divide;
giving mental health the attention and investment it
deserves; ending discrimination and ensuring no child is
left behind; and addressing the worsening climate crisis.

But the crisis also revealed the strength and character
of UNICEF and our global family. And it underscored
the critical importance of our organization’s work as the
world recovers and rebuilds.

This year, UNICEF celebrates its 75th anniversary. When
UNICEF was created in the aftermath of World War II, the
scale of the problems facing children was immense.

As communities struggled to contain the virus,
UNICEF was there to provide information, deliver
supplies like personal protective equipment or PPE,
syringes and testing kits, and keep vital health
services – like immunizations and treatment for
malnutrition – up and running.

Undaunted, as a global community, we reimagined
what was possible by building new health and welfare
systems, driving a revolution in child rights, survival
and development, and creating new forums for global
coordination and action. The progress we achieved was
substantial and lasting.

As schools were closed, UNICEF was there to provide
a range of remote learning options – including online
delivery of education.

With 2020 behind us, we can do so again.

As families struggled economically, UNICEF was there to
provide social protection initiatives, like cash transfers.

But UNICEF cannot do it alone. The long-term, large-scale
change that children and young people require is only
possible through concerted action in partnership.

As the vaccines were rapidly developed, UNICEF was
there playing a leading role in the COVAX Facility to
ensure their equitable procurement, distribution and
delivery – including working with transportation and
logistics companies, and preparing communities and
health workers for the rollout with training and supplies.
As communities and countries alike rebuild and recover,
UNICEF is there once again to support them as they
strengthen all the systems upon which their populations
are relying – from health and nutrition, to water and
sanitation, to education and protection. In the face of
economic pressures, UNICEF will continue working
with governments to prioritize spending on these critical
needs of children and families.

We must. And we are.

UNICEF is proud to be part of this extraordinary period of
global recovery, standing with children and our partners
with hope and optimism. Again, undaunted by the
challenges before us.
Together, we will seize this moment in history and
reimagine a better future for children.

Henrietta Fore
UNICEF Executive Director
RESPONDING TO
RESPONDING
TOCOVID-19
COVID-19

2

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Contents
Foreword	

2

Introduction	

4

UNICEF at 75 years	
How COVID-19 affected childen	

9
10

01

Goal Areas
Goal Area 1: Every child survives and thrives	

12

Goal Area 2: Every child learns	

16

A world learning at home 	

18

Goal Area 3: Every child is protected from violence and exploitation	 20
Goal Area 4: Every child lives in a safe and clean environment	

22

Goal Area 5: Every child has an equitable chance in life	

24

Cash transfers ease the economic strain of COVID-19	

26

How UNICEF adapted to COVID-19	

30

02

Cross-cutting Priorities
Gender Equality	

32

Humanitarian Action	

34

03
Financials 	

Change Strategies
Winning support for children and young people	

37

Partnerships	38
Innovation	44

46

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Introduction
An unprecedented year
The year 2020 will always be remembered for COVID‑19 and the disruptions, uncertainty
and pain it caused worldwide. While children seem to be less vulnerable to the virus
directly, school closures, increased vulnerability to abuse, the mental health strains
of parents and families, distance from friends, and loss of access to vital health care
and protection services have hurt children deeply. But not all children were affected
equally. The pandemic exposed deep inequalities that have existed for too long, with the
worst impact on children in the poorest countries and communities and those already
disadvantaged by discrimination, social exclusion, fragility and conflict.

Aruna Patel, 28, gives
Kangaroo Mother Care (KMC)
through skin‑to-skin contact
with her newborn child in
Baria District Hospital in
Gujarat, India. Mothers of
newborns are trained and
educated on benifits of KMC
by hospital staff.

© UNICEF/UNI341033/PANJWANI

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

4

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Top results in 2020

The data bear this out: the number of children in
monetarily poor households is estimated to have
risen by 142 million by the end of 2020. At least
1 in 7 children and young people has lived under
stay-at-home policies for most of the last year. Up to
94 per cent of students worldwide were affected by
school closures at the height of the pandemic and at
least one third were unable to access remote learning.
Disruptions in food systems and health and nutrition
services could leave 44 million children hungry.
Widespread inequities and injustice mobilized
children and young people in 2020. It can be seen
in the streets of cities worldwide filled with youth
that mobilized in the face of pervasive and deeply
rooted racism and injustice to change their societies.
It can be heard in their passionate calls to address
the climate crisis. And it can be read in the reflective
perspectives they contributed to UNICEF’s platforms
such as U-Report, Voices of Youth and GenU.
UNICEF’s nimble and innovative response to the
pandemic allowed for new approaches to its work.
UNICEF’s Supply Division leveraged its logistical
expertise to ship half a billion items of personal
protective equipment in support of 138 countries
in 2020. UNICEF used its data systems to rapidly
assess the pandemic’s impact on children and its
extensive presence across more than 190 countries
and territories and dual humanitarian and development
mandate to play a key role in the response to
COVID‑19 across the United Nations.
Beyond the pandemic, and often beyond the
spotlight, ongoing work continued in 2020 toward the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). UNICEF’s
2019 Annual Report, reflecting the mid-term review
of UNICEF’s 2018–2021 Strategic Plan, showed that
the world was already off track to achieve child-related
SDGs even before COVID-19, contending with
mounting humanitarian crises, persistent fragility,
climate change and inequalities.

	 Providing leadership in the COVAX Facility,
resulting in the financing of COVID-19 vaccines
for 92 low- and middle-income countries and
preparing countries to deliver the vaccine
	 Providing critical water, sanitation and hygiene
services and supplies (WASH) for 106 million
people, including 58 million children in
153 countries
	 Managing risk communication, disseminating
community engagement information and
supporting activities that reached 3 billion
people, including approximately 1.53 billion
women and girls and 810 million children
	 Providing personal protective equipment
for nearly 2.6 million health workers and
facilitating training on infection prevention
and control for 4 million health workers
	 Training more than 30,000 social service
workers in delivering essential services
	 Putting in place community-based mental
health and psychosocial interventions that
reached 78 million children, adolescents,
parents and caregivers in 117 countries
	 Shifting the management of child wasting
from facilities to the community level, which
resulted in nearly 5 million children with severe
wasting receiving treatment and care
	 Supporting more than 301 million children,
including approximately 147 million girls, with
remote learning
	 Reaching over 130 million children in
93 countries with its supported cash-transfer
programmes
	 Responding to 455 new and ongoing
humanitarian situations in 152 countries
beyond COVID-19
UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

As always, partnerships and voluntary funding were essential to UNICEF’s
work to support and improve the lives of children and young people. Public
and private sector partners supported COVID-19 efforts. The pandemic also
demonstrated how essential flexible resources are to UNICEF’s ability to
respond quickly and effectively at the onset of sudden emergencies and
provide countries and communities with the long-term support that builds
resilience.
Behind all of UNICEF’s accomplishments in 2020 was the dedication of
over 15,000 UNICEF staff members around the world, living up to the
organizational values of care, respect, integrity, trust and accountability.
This year, UNICEF marks its 75th anniversary. In many ways, it is sadly
fitting that UNICEF marks this milestone during an unprecedented
global pandemic. UNICEF was created amid another historic crisis in
the aftermath of World War II. Like today, the scale of the challenges
facing the world’s children was daunting. But over the decades, UNICEF,
governments and partners reimagined what was possible, by building new
health and welfare systems, defeating smallpox, verging on eliminating
polio, and raising living standards.
In 2021, UNICEF is building on its COVID-19 response, delivering COVID-19
vaccines worldwide as part of the COVAX alliance so that no child, family
or country is left behind, bridging the digital divide and providing skills and
education to all children, and harnessing this moment as an unprecedented
opportunity to rebuild and reimagine the systems upon which children and
young people rely.
Now more than ever, the world’s children and young people need global
action to invest in health and education, build more resilient systems
and services that can reach everyone, and ensure that budget cuts and
economic downturns do not harm them.

UNICEF expenditure, 2020
(in millions of US dollars)
BUDGET CATEGORY
Development

5,841

Programme

5,681

Development effectiveness

160

Management

385

United Nations development coordination

12

Special purpose (including capital investment)

12

Private fundraising and partnerships

203

Other
Note: The UNICEF expenditure by budget
categories in this table is presented on a
modified cash basis.

82

Total expenditure

6,535

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

6

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Direct programme expenses, 2020
(in millions of US dollars)
Total expenses
$5,715 million

Regular resources

Other resources (regular)

Other resources (emergency)

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

1100

1000

900

800

700

EXPENSES
BY GOAL AREA:

600
500

400

300

200

Survive
and
thrive

Learning

Protection

Environment

1167.3

712.0

1121.8

2181.4

194.6

220.7

117.4

619.5

333.5

168.8

262.7

288.0

161.3

395.1

626.1

146.0

735.6

1080.8

0

365.0

100

Fair chance

532.6

1200
1100
1000
900
800

EXPENSES
BY REGION:

700
600
500
400
300

* Programme expenses
for Djibouti are included
under sub-Saharan Africa.

878.6

525.5

65.8

123.5

123.9

44.1

213.3

86.8

32.8

38.6

105.4

62.6

239.4

525.3

219.9

714.2

0

533.2

100

1182.3

200

Sub-Saharan
Africa*

Asia

Interregional

Europe and
Central Asia

Latin America
and
the Caribbean

Middle East
and North
Africa

2429.7

984.6

206.6

332.9

291.5

1469.9

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

UNICEF AT 75 YEARS

“
While we must be clear‑eyed about the scale of the
challenges facing the world’s children, we can also advance
in partnership and solidarity by building on our past, with
ambition and confidence in our future.
Executive Director Henrietta Fore’s
Annual Letter, 2021

© UNICEF/UNI335163/DESJARDINS

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

8

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Reimagine the future
for every child

When UNICEF was
founded in 1946 during
the aftermath of World
War II, the world
faced unprecedented
devastation. The
world’s children
needed the support,
services and advocacy
that UNICEF could
provide.
Today, the world once
again faces immense
global challenges
such as inequality,
climate change and the
COVID-19 pandemic,
which has had a severe
and widespread impact
on child health and
well‑being.

On a global scale, children’s health and well-being have improved
significantly since 1946. Together with partners, UNICEF has developed
life-changing innovations for children: the India Mark II family of water
handpumps developed in the 1970s is still the world’s most widely used
human-powered pump.
In the early 1980s, UNICEF launched the Child Survival and Development
Revolution, a drive to save the lives of millions of children each year,
focusing on four low-cost measures: growth monitoring, oral rehydration
therapy, promotion of breastfeeding and immunization.
In the 1990s, UNICEF brought nations together under the banner
of children’s rights and adopted a human rights-based approach to
programming, placing human rights principles at the centre of its work.
UNICEF also developed School-in-a-Box, which continues to keep children
learning in emergency settings.
In the 2000s, UNICEF brought to scale a ready-to-use therapeutic food
which has become the global standard to treat children suffering from
malnutrition.
A decade later, UNICEF took a leading role in challenging systemic inequity
around the world.
But there is still much to do. Deeply ingrained discrimination and
inequality are leaving too many disadvantaged children and young people
behind. UNICEF is dedicated to reaching children from the poorest, most
disadvantaged households, communities and countries.
As UNICEF celebrates its 75th anniversary, it is recommitting itself
to working with partners, supporters and staff all over the world to
allow millions of girls and boys to survive and thrive into healthy,
productive adulthood. Working in some of the world’s toughest places
– and maintaining our presence before, during and after humanitarian
emergencies – we remain in the front lines of the fight to provide a fair
chance for every child.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

How COVID-19 affected children
COVID-19 is a children’s crisis. Across virtually every key measure
of childhood, progress has gone backward since the pandemic was
declared by the World Health Organization in March 2020, leaving
children confronting a devastating and distorted new normal.

142 million additional children were
estimated to fall into monetary poverty
by the end of 2020 and lack access to
social protection.

An additional 1.2 million children
under 5 years of age could die over a
12-month period in low- and middleincome countries as a result of the
worst-case estimates of disruptions
to health services and rising
malnutrition.

At least 1 in 3 schoolchildren has been unable to access
remote learning while their schools were closed, and
1.6 billion children and young people have been affected
by school closures.

200,000 additional stillbirths could
occur in 12 months as women are
less likely or able to access health
services.

Approximately 80 million children
under age 1 may miss out on
life‑saving vaccines in at least
68 countries.

RESPONDING TO
RESPONDING
TOCOVID-19
COVID-19

10

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

As of late 2020, in 59 countries,
refugees and asylum seekers
were excluded from national social
protection measures because of
discriminatory laws, policies and
practices.

An additional 6.7 million children under
age 5 could suffer from wasting in the
next 12 months, a 14 per cent rise that
could translate into more than 10,000
additional child deaths per month
– mostly in sub-Saharan Africa and
South Asia.

An estimated 43 per cent of all
children (349 million) who are below
primary school entry age need child
care, but do not have access to it.

Stress, confinement and poverty are
accelerating serious child protection
risk at a time when 1.8 billion children
live in the 104 countries where
violence prevention and response
services have been disrupted due to
COVID-19.

Around 10 million additional child marriages may
occur before the end of the decade, threatening
years of progress in reducing the practice.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

Goal Area 1
Every child survives
and thrives

In 2020, UNICEF adapted its health and nutrition
programming to respond to the wide-ranging impacts
of the pandemic, focusing on community-based and
digital solutions while ensuring primary health-care
systems became more resilient.
The pandemic severely disrupted essential health
and nutrition services in 2020, exacerbating
inequalities and threatening to reverse decades-long
improvements. By the end of October 2020, around
one third of countries faced declines of 10 per cent or
more in-service coverage for routine immunizations,
outpatient care for childhood infectious diseases, and
maternal health services compared to 2019.
In 2020, global programme expenses in Goal Area
1 across 156 countries totalled US$2.18 billion,
including US$1.14 billion for humanitarian action in
131 countries.

Health
In 2020, in the face of the pandemic, UNICEF adapted
its health programming to support the global COVID-19
response, ensure continuation of essential lifesaving services and engaging communities through
community-based and digital solutions while seizing
opportunities to make primary health care systems
more resilient.
UNICEF continued to strengthen maternal and newborn
care in the face of COVID-19, supporting programmes
that assisted 30.5 million live births in health facilities.
In 25 countries with high-pneumonia prevalence,
8.7 million children with suspected pneumonia received

TOP RESULTS
30.5 million

17 million

live births were
delivered in health
facilities with support
from UNICEF.

children in
emergency situations
were vaccinated
against measles.

8.7 million

15 million girls

children with
suspected
pneumonia received
antibiotics.

and

Almost 244 million

5 million

children received
services for the
prevention of stunting
and other forms of
malnutrition.

children with
severe acute
malnutrition
were treated.

100 per cent

2.8 million

of targeted countries
supported the
implementation
of high-impact
gender-responsive
adolescent
interventions.

children in
emergencies
participated in
early childhood
development or
early learning
programmes.

9.7 million boys
were tested for
HIV.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

12

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

In April 2020 in Nigeria, UNICEF receives a delivery of vital
health supplies to support the fight against the COVID-19
pandemic. The supplies include 10,000 test kits, 15 oxygen
concentrators, personal protective equipment, vaccines,
emergency health kits and other vital health supplies, which
will support the government’s COVID-19 Response Plan and
UNICEF’s work in Nigeria.

© UNICEF/UNI322102

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

antibiotics. Insecticide-treated nets to prevent malaria
were distributed to 2.5 million people in humanitarian
situations, mostly in Ethiopia, Somalia and South Sudan.
In August 2020, Nigeria was certified as wild poliovirusfree. In 63 countries reporting humanitarian situations
the same year, a total of 17 million children were
vaccinated against measles.
The COVID-19 pandemic made clear that primary
health care is critical to achieving universal health care,
accelerating progress on the SDGs and ensuring resilience
in the face of emergencies and future pandemics. In
2020, a new operational framework for primary health
care was established that provides concrete actions
for countries to implement the global commitments
made in the Declaration of Astana. UNICEF supported
the institutionalization of community health workforce,
improving quality of care and strengthening national health
sector supply chain strategies. UNICEF also facilitated the
skills enhancement of 36,816 community health workers
in 18 out of 25 focus countries.

HIV and AIDS
Despite gains in preventing new HIV infections in
children – 85 per cent of pregnant women living with
HIV globally receive antiretroviral treatment compared
with only 42 per cent in 2010 – much of this progress
was made in the first half of the decade. Since 2016,
progress has stalled. For children, the situation is even
worse. In 2019, only 53 per cent of all children living with
HIV were receiving the life-saving treatment they need.
Even before COVID-19, the world was off track to
achieve the 2020 global target on new infections among
children and adolescent girls and young women.
Although the full impact of COVID-19 on HIV prevention
is not known, it is likely that lack of access to services,
interrupted treatment, increases in gender-based violence
and disruptions in education will lead to a surge in new
HIV infections in women, children and adolescent girls.
There is some good news. Virtual medical visits,
community-based service delivery and multi-month
prescriptions stemmed the tide, as antenatal care
attendance and prevention of mother-to-child transmission
services bounced back to pre-pandemic levels by late 2020.

Nutrition
The COVID-19 pandemic threatens to undo years of
progress in improving child nutrition.
The pandemic unlocked a radical shift in approaching the
management, prevention, detection and treatment of
child wasting, shifting the management of child wasting
programming from facilities to the community level. More
children received life-saving treatment and care in 2020
than 2019 (nearly 5 million children in over 70 countries).
In 2020, the UNICEF-WFP Partnership Framework
on Child Wasting was finalized and the two agencies
worked together in Chad, Mali and Niger to improve
school health and nutrition.
UNICEF’s services reached nearly 244 million children to
prevent stunting and other forms of malnutrition, ranging
across ages and forms of malnutrition to include:
	 Nutrition counseling in pregnancy care in
71 countries
	 Scaling-up programming to improve dietary
diversity for young children in 58 countries
	 Comprehensive national strategies to prevent
stunting in 58 countries
	 Policy for the prevention of overweight and
obesity in 21 countries
	 Reaching 4 million children in humanitarian
situations for severe acute malnutrition

Early childhood development
Progress was made in early childhood development in
2020 despite the pandemic, with 87 countries (4 more
than in 2019) having established a national early childhood
development (ECD) policy or action plan. Recent data
show that 117 countries (12 more than in 2019) have
government-owned multisectoral ECD programmes.
UNICEF supported almost 2.8 million children under age
5 to participate in ECD and/or early learning programmes
in humanitarian contexts in 74 countries, using television
and online programmes in response to COVID-19.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

14

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Children at the nexus of conflict, health,
education, clean water and COVID-19 in Ukraine
Six years of conflict have ravaged eastern Ukraine
and devastated the lives of the children in the region.
COVID-19 has exacerbated their vulnerability – stressing
education, water and health systems.
Around 430,000 children living with the psychological
wounds of growing up around the protracted conflict
need ongoing support. Across eastern Ukraine, UNICEF
and partners have provided child-centered social services
to foster solidarity between host and internally displaced
communities and provide psychosocial support and
mine risk education. It also has supported peer-to-peer
initiatives reaching over 20,000 children and young
people with skills to build social cohesion and resolve
conflicts. Through humanitarian aid from the European
Union, UNICEF also supported repairs to damaged
schools and vital water and sanitation facilities.
But the spread of COVID-19 has done what years of
conflict didn’t: forced schools to close, making children
such as Anton, in first grade, lose one more connection
to a sense of normalcy.
“Anton feels good at school and can play there with other
children. At home he gets bored and cries a lot,” says his
mother Ania. But despite the school closure, the family
will, for now at least, stay in their city. They have no choice.
“I don’t have money to go anywhere,” she explains.
Years of conflict have also devastated the region’s
infrastructure and left many families struggling to
access necessities like clean water.

© UNICEF/UNI356687/FILIPPOV

As soon as they arrive home, David and his mother
Svitlana head for their basement with the water they have
collected from the council building. Svitlana says they
always keep some water in the basement, ever since the
early weeks of the conflict when their area came under
heavy fire and they were forced to take shelter there.
David is too young to remember those days, but
reminders of the ongoing fighting are ever present.
There’s no school and no consistent supply of tap water.
David has grown up with a stronger appreciation for the
value of water than many children.
“I like the summers because you can take an outdoor
shower. In the winter you have to heat the water and
bathe in a bucket. But now that I’m too big for it I’ll have
to bathe in a cauldron,” he says, laughing.
When COVID-19 first came to Ukraine in February 2020,
health-care workers were most at risk. “It felt like the first
days of the conflict [in eastern Ukraine],” Dr. Olha Kobevko,
an infectious disease specialist in Chernivtsi, recalls of the
initial influx of COVID-19 patients at her hospital. “We didn’t
know what to expect, but we were on the frontline anyway.”
“I hope to God I don’t get sick. It’s so hard to see
what’s happening, to see colleagues who have fallen
sick or who are in critical condition,” says Dr. Ivan
Venzhynovych, a therapist working in the infectious
diseases department in Pochaiv, a small town in
western Ukraine. “But we have to keep working
because no one else can do the job.”

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Goal Area 2
Every child learns

When the COVID-19 pandemic shut down schools
worldwide, children were already facing a global
learning crisis. Over 50 per cent of 10-year-olds
in low-income and middle-income countries
cannot read and understand a simple story by
the end of primary school. More than half of the
world’s children and young people lack digital
connectivity, affecting access to remote learning.
COVID-19 has heightened the urgency to address the
digital divide and unequal access to quality education.
An estimated 23.8 million children and youth are
projected to drop out of school because of the
pandemic.
In 2020, UNICEF found innovative ways to address
exclusion and inequality and ensure that learning
continued. UNICEF adopted and adapted technology
to provide distance learning, to help schools reopen
safely by coordinating with health, WASH and child
protection sectors; strengthening the resilience of
education systems; and protecting education funding.
UNICEF is on track to meet or surpass the 2021
Strategic Plan targets for education for access and
equity. While performance at the output level has
been positive, more progress is needed in the areas
of learning outcomes and share of adolescents not in
employment, education or training.

In 2020, UNICEF responded to these challenges by
providing support to education in 151 countries at the
expense of US$1.17 billion. UNICEF supported education
programmes in humanitarian contexts in 140 countries at
a cost of US$0.70 billion.

TOP RESULTS
48 million
out-of-school children participated in early learning,
primary or secondary education.

More than 43 million
children were provided with learning materials.

7.7 million
children participated in skills development
programmes for learning.

More than 2.3 million
migrant,displaced, refugee and returnee children
were supported with distance/home-based
learning.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

16

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Mosammat Ripa Akhter Hasna Hena, 13, has her daily
education lesson through remote learning via mobile phone in
Dhaka, Bangladesh on 28 December, 2020. Her teacher rotates
her lessons by talking to 10 students per day for 10 minutes
each. It takes three days to talk to each student in the class.
Ripa attends classes through the Ability Based Accelerated
Learning (ABAL) centre, a pilot project of the Education Equity
for Out of School Children (EEOOSC) project, supported by
UNICEF. Children living in slum communities are given a second
chance at education through the project, aimed at children ages
8–14 who either never went to school or stopped attending.
© UNICEF/UN0393334/SATU

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

A world learning at home
For parents and children all over the world, ‘remote learning’ became an everyday phrase in
2020. Never before in history were so many children out of school simultaneously. As with so
many other areas of children’s lives, COVID-19 exacerbated deep inequalities in education. As
students adjusted to remote schooling, the digital divide became impossible to ignore.
Digital tools can help children develop the skills they need to realize their potential – but
more work is needed. UNICEF is dedicated to connecting every child and school to the
internet through the Reimagine Education initiative, which focuses on learning and skills
development to provide quality education through digital learning, internet connectivity,
devices, affordable data and the engagement of young people.
Here are some of the ways UNICEF worked with partners to keep schools safe and students
learning, in classrooms or at home, online and offline – wherever they are.

Igihozo, 11, listens to a lesson on a
radio after his school was closed in
Rwanda. To keep children learning,
the country turned to one of its most
accessible mediums: radio. UNICEF
identified more than 100 radio scripts
from around the world focusing on
basic literacy and numeracy that could
be adapted to align with Rwanda’s
school curriculum. It then worked
with partners, including the Rwanda
Broadcasting Agency, to produce and
air the classes around the country.
© UNICEF/UNI319836/KANOBANA

RESPONDING TO
RESPONDING
TOCOVID-19
COVID-19

18

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

UNICEF Goal Area 2
Every child learns

A girl holds up a phone displaying an
online learning platform providing a range
of audiovisual material to help students
continue learning during COVID-19-related
school closures. Timor-Leste rolled out
its curriculum on the Learning Passport
platform after schools in the country
closed in March. The content available
to schoolchildren includes online books,
videos and additional support for parents
of children with learning disabilities.
© UNICEF/UNI320751/SOARES

Maram, 12, studies at her home in Ar‑Raqqa,
the Syrian Arab Republic, after schools in
the country were suspended. Even before
COVID-19, millions of children in the country
were out of school or at risk of dropping
out as the country entered its tenth year of
conflict. Maram is using the Self-Learning
Programme books she received a few
months ago to help keep her education on
track. Designed to help children who have
either dropped out of school or who are
at risk of doing so, the programme helps
children to continue learning core subjects
such as Arabic, English, maths and science.
© UNICEF/UNI318725/SYRIA

Mila, 11, studies at her home in Gamboa,
Panama, after schools in the country
were suspended to prevent the spread of
COVID-19. By late March, around 95 per
cent of enrolled children were temporarily
out of school due to COVID-19 across
Latin America and the Caribbean – more
than 150 million children across the
region. To help keep children learning,
UNICEF launched the #LearningAtHome
initiative, providing a fun new activity
every day that parents can adapt and
share with others, from treasure hunt
puzzles to creative toy spiderwebs.
© UNICEF/UNI322367/SCHVERDFINGER
UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Goal Area 3		
Every child is protected
from violence and
exploitation

Despite two decades of progress, significant
acceleration is required to achieve the
child‑protection related SDGs. COVID-19
threatens to even roll back the hard-won
progress made to date, straining fragile social
service, protection and justice systems,
increasing gender-based risks and deepening
inequalities.
Yet the crisis has also raised the profile of ‘hidden’
issues such as mental health, violence in the home,
and the needs of children without family care. The
essential role of the social service workforce can no
longer be dismissed.
In 2020, UNICEF balanced the need to continue
its programmes and operations while pivoting to
proactively address the socio-economic impacts of
COVID-19.
In 2020, global programme expenses for Goal
Area 3 in 154 countries were US$712 million.
UNICEF supported protection programmes in
humanitarian contexts in 145 countries at a cost
of US$393 million.

TOP RESULTS
47.2 million
children, adolescents and caregivers were
provided with community-based mental health and
psychosocial support.

6 million
adolescent girls received prevention and care
interventions to address child marriage through joint
programming with UNFPA.

Approximately 17.8 million
people reached with gender-based violence risk
mitigation, prevention or response interventions in
84 countries.

4.2 million
children in 126 countries who experienced violence
were provided health, social work and justice services.

More than 2.6 million
parents and caregivers across 87 countries were
reached with parenting programmes, a 14 per cent
increase from 2019.

Close to 4.2 million
children and women across 126 countries were
afforded with safe and accessible channels for
reporting sexual exploitation and abuse, a five-fold
increase from 2019.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

20

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

Zeina, 22, one of a team of young volunteers working with
UNICEF in Al-Husn, the Syrian Arab Republic, talks to children
about their rights as part of an awareness-raising initiative on
child rights and protection from sexual abuse and harassment.
“We’re empowering children and reaching out to caregivers
to encourage both to speak up if children are faced with
abuse or harassment,” says Zeina. “When I first started
going to the field with the team, I was surprised to see that
in reality basic needs, such as protection, education or even
vaccines, are a privilege for too many children,” she says.
“Awareness-raising helps spread the knowledge needed to
combat many negative consequences of years of conflict.”

© UNICEF/UN0410501/AL-DROUBI

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

Goal Area 4		
Every child lives in
a safe and clean
environment

From the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic,
WASH became a critical component of the global
response effort through handwashing campaigns
to ensure equitable, affordable access to WASH
services including in health-care facilities and
schools.
Since 2017, UNICEF has provided an unprecedented
12,309 health-care facilities with WASH services, far
exceeding the target.
Responding to COVID-19, UNICEF reached 106 million
people in 120 countries with critical water, sanitation
and hygiene services and supplies.
A total of 17 million people gained access to safe
water services, keeping UNICEF on track to exceed
the four-year goal of reaching 60 million people
In 2020, 55 per cent of UNICEF country offices
implemented programmes to build peace and social
cohesion, including by supporting adolescent and
youth participation as agents of change and peace and
leveraging the role of WASH, local government and
child protection.
Child-sensitive risk analyses informed resiliencebuilding and 41 per cent of UNICEF country offices
met organizational benchmarks on implementing
risk‑informed programming.

In 2020, UNICEF worked to provide clean water,
sanitation and climate resilience in 143 countries at the
expense of US$1.12 billion. UNICEF supported WASH
programmes in humanitarian contexts in 120 countries
at a cost of US$0.76 billion.

TOP RESULTS
17 million
additional people gained access to safe drinking
water.

13.4 million
additional people gained access to basic sanitation
services.

56 countries
had child-sensitive national or local risk management
plans that address disasters, climate change,
conflict and other crises.

74 countries
implemented child-inclusive programmes
that foster climate resilience and low-carbon
development.
UNICEF supported increased social cohesion and
peace through 55 per cent of country offices.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

22

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A SAFE
AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Fika, 3, reads a book near a newly constructed toilet in
her home in Tegaldowo village, Central Java province,
Indonesia. Fika’s home was inundated by tidal floods,
forcing her parents to build a temporary latrine outside.
The new toilet was built in July 2020 using government
assistance. The Government of Indonesia has made
universal access to sanitation a priority in an effort to
reduce the rate of stunting among children.
Safe sanitation is vital to health, child development and
social and economic progress and was an important part
of the response to COVID-19 in 2020.
© UNICEF/UN0353544/IJAZAH

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

Goal Area 5		
Every child has an
equitable chance in life

In 2020, UNICEF continued to safeguard the
rights enshrined in the Convention on the
Rights of the Child by working to reduce child
poverty and end discrimination.
COVID-19 and the socio-economic crisis it fueled
have increased monetary and multidimensional
child poverty, and exacerbated the vulnerabilities
of children living in poverty, girls, children with
disabilities, migrant and displaced children, and
other marginalized groups. UNICEF’s social
protection response enabled a more inclusive
recovery and created a unique entry point to
strengthen social protection financing and
partnerships.
Global programme expenses in Goal Area 5
across 156 countries totalled US$533 million,
including US$255 million for humanitarian
action in 112 countries.

TOP RESULTS
31 countries
reported that measurement, analysis or advocacy
led to policies and programmes that reduced child
poverty.
UNICEF-supported cash-transfer programmes
reached over 130 million children in
93 countries

7.2 million adolescents in 122 countries
in 2020 participated in or led civic engagement
interventions through UNICEF-supported
programmes, exceeding targets.
In 2020, UNICEF reached more than 2.2 million
children with disabilities across 144 countries
through disability-inclusive development and
humanitarian programmes.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

24

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Syaiful (left), 12, a child with a physical impairment, and his best friend Kevin Saputra, 9, who
has a visual impairment, play near Syaiful’s house in Banyumas, Central Java, Indonesia.
Both attend a madrasa that is part of the inclusive education programme under the 1 in 11
partnership – a collaboration between the government of Indonesia, UNICEF and Lembaga
Pendidikan Maarif Nahdlatul Ulama (LP Maarif NU), with support from Reach Out to Asia
(ROTA) and the FC Barcelona Foundation.
Through the partnership, teachers receive training on inclusive education, enabling them to
support children with disabilities, like Syaiful and Kevin.
In 2020, UNICEF reached over 2.2 million children with disabilities worldwide through
disability‑inclusive programmes.
© UNICEF/UNI358849/IJAZAH

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Cash transfers ease the economic
strain of COVID-19
Before COVID-19, children were twice as likely as adults to be living in extreme poverty.
Now, the number of children living below their respective national poverty line could soar
by as many as 117 million, leaving 700 million children’s futures even less certain. Cash
transfers can shield families from financial catastrophe, unlocking better access to food
and regular health care and school. Cash transfers can also alleviate debilitating stress,
which can lead to violence and poor mental health.

UNICEF Goal Area 5
Every child has an
equitable chance in life

In Thailand, the economic and
social impact on the country’s
most vulnerable families is
severe. With the Thai economy
shrinking, UNICEF and partners
have advocated for measures to
soften the impact of the crisis on
children and families. As a result,
the government is providing
a three-month replenishment
to recipients of cash-transfer
programmes, benefitting around
8 million families, including Tukta’s.
“My children must have a better
chance than I did for proper
schooling, and this money will
help their education,” Tukta says of
the additional 1,000 baht (US$32)
per month she receives under
the programme.
© UNICEF/PANOS/2020/BROWN
RESPONDING TO
RESPONDING
TOCOVID-19
COVID-19

26

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

The strict lockdown in Guatemala
was particularly devastating for
the roughly 60 per cent of the
population already living in poverty.
Telma was one of the many parents
who lost their main source of
income during the pandemic and
who were left scrambling to find
a way to put food on the table.
But with cash assistance from a
government programme supported
by UNICEF and the World Bank,
Telma has been able to find a new
source of income – making face
masks to protect against COVID-19.
Telma’s priority upon receiving the
cash benefit was to buy food for
her children. “My greatest fear
was not being able to afford food
for them,” she says. The money
also goes to the flour she needs to
make pancakes, which she sells to
try to make ends meet.
© UNICEF/UNI388986/MUSSAPP

Even before the pandemic,
66 per cent of Sierra Leone’s
children were living in poverty. Isatu,
an informal trader from Freetown,
says sales have been extremely
slow since the pandemic began.
A government-led emergency
cash-transfer programme for
informal workers in urban areas
has provided a lifeline for parents
struggling to put food on the table,
including Isatu. The emergency cash
transfers have helped her diversify
her business. She’s now able to
add soap powder to the school
goods she usually sells to better
provide for her family. “Sales have
improved, so I’ve been able to buy
better food for my children,” she
says. “And I’m happy that I’ve been
able to [save some money to] help
them get ready to go back to school
in October.”
© UNICEF SIERRA LEONE/2020/
MUTSEYEKWA
UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Child poverty and public finance for children

Gender equality

In 2020, UNICEF swiftly responded to COVID-19 by
engaging in 70 socio-economic impact assessments
and 62 country-level child poverty-focused analyses on
the disproportionate impact of the crisis on children.

Countries promoting gender-sensitive or -responsive
programmes or systems more than tripled compared
to 2019, reaching 88 – demonstrating growing
attention to the needs of women and girls, including
the need to transform harmful gender norms and
other gender outcomes.

Countries continued to monitor child poverty using
nationally owned measurement and reporting systems
(66 countries on multidimensional poverty and 79 on
monetary poverty).

Social protection
UNICEF-supported cash-transfer programmes reached
over 130 million children in 93 countries. Since 2017,
the number of countries (61) with strong or moderately
strong social protection systems has almost doubled.
UNICEF continued to strengthen shock-responsive
social protection systems in 16 countries.

Children with disabilities
In 2020, UNICEF reached over 2.2 million children
with disabilities across 144 countries through
disability‑inclusive development and humanitarian
programmes.
In emergency contexts, 44 per cent of UNICEF country
offices systematically included children with disabilities
in their response efforts, as in the construction of
82 accessible latrines in Cox’s Bazaar in Bangladesh.
UNICEF worked to address the impact of COVID-19 on
children with disabilities, who are at risk of being left
even further behind. In Rwanda, UNICEF supported
individualized home-based learning for 7,282 children
with disabilities. Globally, more than 152,000 children
with disabilities were provided with assistive devices
and products.

Adolescent empowerment
In 2020, 7.2 million adolescents (53 per cent girls
based on data from 99 countries) across 122 countries
participated in or led civic engagement interventions
through UNICEF-supported programmes in
humanitarian and development settings, exceeding the
2021 target of 5.2 million.
Online platforms for adolescents during the pandemic
provided new opportunities. In collaboration with over
200 partners – representing governments, United
Nations agencies, the private sector, and youth –
Generation Unlimited reached more than 100 million
young people (aged 10–24) in over 40 countries in 2020,
and accelerated the scale-up of digital platforms for
learning, skilling, entrepreneurship and empowerment
to change the trajectories of young people’s lives.
Thirty-nine countries supported the development of
66 adolescent-friendly policies, surpassing the 2020
milestone of 37 countries.

.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

28

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

Discussion groups support parents’ mental health
and protect children in Ecuador
The COVID-19 pandemic unexpectedly changed the
daily lives of families in Ecuador. Confinement, coupled
with teleworking and school closures, meant that
parents had to spend long hours with their children.
In some cases, this led to anguish and stress in their
relationships with their children.
“I started to notice unusual reactions in my son, he
started screaming, getting angry and sad because he
couldn’t go out ... many times I have said ‘Oh God, we
have been together but I never saw this side of him,’”
says Esther, from Guayaquil.
“I noticed that my 5-year-old daughter cried every time I
turned on the computer for school, and I forced her to
sit down and do her homework ... I think I am the one
with the problem, because my daughter was free at
school, she ran, sang ... and I can’t help her with this,”
says María, from Quito.
The added isolation and the absence of support to talk
about these anxieties could lead parents to unload their
frustrations on their children, creating an environment
conducive to violence.
UNICEF, with the support of the Pontificia Universidad
Católica del Ecuador (PUCE), launched a parent support
group called ‘Let’s talk’ to listen and support parents. This
© UNICEF/UN0359674/ARCOS

mental health initiative differs from the psychoeducation
or parenting modality in which generic manuals on how
to be a good parent are taught. Unspoken parenting
experiences cause parents to accumulate unprocessed
experiences that can manifest themselves in impulsive
behavior towards each other or towards the child. The aim
is to open a listening space for parents to express the
discomfort related to their parenting with confidentiality.
Through group work, parents shared their diversity
of experiences, encouraging culturally and socially
accessible alternatives for more humane parenting.
Being able to talk about their experiences allowed them
to reorganize preconceived ideas and generate selfcriticism free of external judgments.
After attending the discussion groups, most parents
experienced relief knowing they are not the only ones
going through these difficulties. They proposed to
continue as a group, and they began to get closer to
their children. “Before I yelled at them all day long, and
now I am starting to talk to them. The mother I was
before no longer exists.” says Sara, from Cuenca.
Based on this work and with the aim of creating a
methodology for psychosocial interventions in parenting,
seven parenting guides were created, reaching more than
600,000 unique users through Facebook and Instagram.
UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

How
UNICEF
adapted
to
COVID-19

For example, in Mali, UNICEF worked with
children and youth journalists, parliamentarians,
artists and youth organizations in advocacy and
dialogue to reduce mistrust around COVID19 and share prevention measures across
generational divides. These risk communication
and community engagement (RCCE) campaigns
took place in the most marginalized and at-risk
communities, including in local markets,
mosques, prisons and in internally displaced
persons camps and host communities to gain
greater acceptance for protection and safety
measures. These initiatives implemented
2,981 dialogue sessions and reached a total of
184,721 people.
Seyodu, a 10-year-old who shines shoes to earn
spare money and received free masks through
the initiative says, “Now I can do my job without
being exposed to the dangers of Coronavirus
contamination … I tell my friends to wear the
masks and not to get close to each other that’s how
they won’t get the coronavirus.”

Social and behavior change
and community engagement
Given the absence of biomedical
solutions to the COVID-19 pandemic,
UNICEF played a lead role in social
and behaviour change and community
engagement:
	

In 148 countries, UNICEF co-led with
governments the establishment of national
risk communication and community
engagement (RCCE) committees to
coordinate community participation, develop
feedback mechanisms and influence
adherence to recommended practices.

	

UNICEF introduced community rapid
assessments on COVID-19 in multiple
countries, providing regular community-sourced
data with insights into protective practices,
coping strategies and emerging needs.

	

At the global level, UNICEF co-created
with the World Health Organization and the
International Federation of Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies the RCCE Collective
Service, providing oversight for the RCCE
pillar of the global pandemic response.

Data collection
COVID-19 challenged data collection to
monitor impacts on children. UNICEF
pivoted to the careful use of a wider
variety of data collection including phone
surveys, machine-learning analysis of
social media streams and interviews,
applying rigorous analysis. Real-time
evaluations of the COVID-19 response
kept UNICEF as effective as possible.
Data were rapidly turned into analysis
through short reports, digests, interactive
dashboards and an electronic library of
research on COVID-19 and children.
For example, with access to the field cut off in
Somalia, it was hard to monitor the impact of
COVID-19 on children and services. The Risk
Informed Response Mechanism, initiated in
2020, consolidated all data into a single hub using
multi-hazard scenario planning, tracking where
emergencies are evolving and highlighting supply
challenges. It allowed UNICEF to understand
the situation at the subnational level and adapt
programmes accordingly.
RESPONDING TO
RESPONDING
TOCOVID-19
COVID-19

30

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Providing the world with
life‑saving supplies
As the COVID-19 outbreak unfolded in
China in early 2020, it became clear that
supplies were a central component of the
response – especially PPE to safeguard the
health of frontline workers. However, with
much of the world’s PPE manufacturing
concentrated in China, the outbreak had a
sharp impact on the global market.
UNICEF supply operations engaged with more than
1,000 suppliers and industry leaders around the world
to identify solutions to the market constraints and
secure supplies needed at appropriate prices to support
PPE equitable access for programme countries.
Partnership efforts also intensified. UNICEF
brought its expertise, assets and networks to these
collaborations, including the WHO-led COVID-19
supply chain system and the ACT-Accelerator initiative
– a global collaboration launched in April 2020 and
aimed at developing and accelerating access to
COVID-19 diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines.

In spite of extremely complex supply and logistics
challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic,
UNICEF shipped half a billion items of PPE in
support of 138 countries in 2020 alone.
Because COVID-19, when severe, can lead to
pneumonia, UNICEF also provided global, rapid and
multi-faceted oxygen support during the pandemic.
With the groundwork already in place through the
oxygen therapy innovation project with the Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation, UNICEF was uniquely
positioned to propel an extensive global oxygen
response to meet both the imminent need caused by
COVID-19 and the critical needs of 800,000 children
under age 5 whose lives pneumonia takes every year.
In 2020 alone, 16,795 oxygen concentrators were
shipped to 94 countries. These life-saving machines
take in air from the environment, remove nitrogen
and produce a continuous source of oxygen. In
addition, UNICEF distributed over 12,050 oxygen
accessories (such as pulse oximeters, flow splitters,
oxygen analyzers and humidifier bottles) and
920,575 consumables (such as nasal cannula, face
masks and tubing).

A UNICEF staff member inspects a shipment
of vital health supplies, including personal
protective equipment, which had just landed in
pandemic-struck Latin America.
© UNICEF/UNI346300/AMADOR

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020
2020

31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Cross-cutting priority:

Gender Equality

As the pandemic compounded the impacts
of gender inequality, UNICEF redoubled
efforts in addressing gender-based violence;
maintaining gender-responsive health and
education services; caring for caregivers,
especially through quality maternal care; and
strengthening gender data and analysis.
Around 17.8 million people received genderbased violence risk mitigation, prevention or
response interventions in 84 countries, while
over 210,000 UNICEF personnel and partners
completed training on gender-based violence
risk mitigation and referrals for survivors in
83 countries with COVID response plans.
COVID‑19 accelerated the scale-up of protection
from sexual exploitation and abuse; 91 countries
now have safe and accessible reporting channels,
country action plans, training for partners, and
strengthened referral pathways.
Countries promoting gender-sensitive or
-responsive programmes or systems tripled
compared to 2019 – demonstrating growing
attention to the needs of women and girls,
including the need to transform harmful gender
norms and other gender outcomes.

TOP RESULTS
6 million
adolescent girls in 45 countries reached
with child marriage-related prevention
and care interventions through joint
programming with UNFPA.

88 countries
promoting gender-sensitive or genderresponsive programmes or systems, a number
that more than tripled compared to 2019.

91 countries
now have safe and accessible reporting
channels, country action plans, training for
partners and strengthened referral pathways.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

32

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:
GENDER EQUALITY

Civil society volunteers in Ahmedabad, India work with
adolescents to discuss their perceptions and experiences on
violence and safety with focus on gender-based violence.
Reports of violence against children and young people rose
dramatically in many countries in the face of the COVID-19
pandemic.

© UNICEF/UN0379922/PANJWANI

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Cross-cutting priority:

Humanitarian Action

Often beyond the global headlines and spotlight,
UNICEF responded to 455 new and ongoing
humanitarian situations in 152 countries
alongside its response to COVID-19, including
102 natural disasters, 72 sociopolitical crises,
211 health emergencies, 38 nutrition crises and
32 other situations.
Revenue for humanitarian assistance (US$2,356 million
in 2020) was 15 per cent higher than in 2019. The
humanitarian funding requirement increased to
US$6,315 million in 2020, from US$4,133 million in
2019, representing the largest-ever funding request
for humanitarian action by UNICEF.
In humanitarian settings, 39.1 million people
accessed safe drinking water, cooking and personal
hygiene, including 4.5 million people in Yemen,
where more than 1.7 million also received a standard
hygiene kit from UNICEF.
UNICEF supported community-based
handwashing promotion programmes in
110 countries, more than ever before, with a
strong focus on COVID‑19–related messaging.
Through the ‘pandemic doesn’t stop for
periods’ campaign, UNICEF helped girls and
women get access to menstrual pads and
culturally- and age-specific information and
is still on-track to provide menstrual hygiene
services to 50,000 schools by the end of 2021.

Almost 1.2 million girls and women in humanitarian
settings (up from 1 million in 2019) received menstrual
health and hygiene services in schools, temporary learning
spaces and other child-friendly spaces. Menstruation
supplies were included as a mandatory item in most
hygiene kits delivered to communities in crisis.
UNICEF helped 13.4 million people gain access to basic
sanitation services in 2020, and an additional 5.6 million
people were reached with shorter-term sanitation services
through emergency response programmes.

TOP RESULTS
Responding to COVID-19 across 153 countries,
UNICEF reached:

3 billion people
(approximately 1.53 billion women and girls; 810 million
children) with risk communication and community
engagement (RCCE) information and activities.

nearly 2.6 million health workers
with personal protective equipment (PPE).
4 million health workers with training on infection
prevention and control (IPC).
more than 30,000 social workers with training to
deliver adapted case management.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

34

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:
HUMANITARIAN ACTION

A young refugee girl practices alternatives to hand shaking at
the Um Rakoba refugee camp in Hamdayet Reception Centre in
Gedarif state, Sudan.
Fighting between regional and government forces in Tigray,
Ethiopia began in November 2020, displacing people within the
northern province and pushing thousands to seek shelter in Sudan.
Up to 5,000 people a day crossed the border in November, rapidly
overwhelming the humanitarian response capacity on the ground.
UNICEF is responding in eastern Sudan with life-saving
humanitarian assistance including providing water, sanitation,
hygiene, health and nutrition services for refugees.

© UNICEF/UN0403193/ABDALKARIM

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:
HUMANITARIAN ACTION

In 2020, as a result of UNICEF support, 48 million
out-of-school children (49 per cent girls) accessed
education, including 4 million children on the move and
33 million in humanitarian settings. Learning materials
were provided to 43 million children (52 per cent in
humanitarian settings); 59,223 school management
committees or similar bodies received training; and
7.7 million children (48 per cent girls, 79 per cent
in humanitarian settings) benefited from skills
development programmes.
In Bangladesh, UNICEF supported 4,000 early learning
centres offering mother-tongue based instruction,
including for Rohingya children in refugee camps.
Out of the 47.7 million children targeted in the
Humanitarian Action for Children appeal in 2020,
33 million (49 per cent girls) were reached. In addition
to responding to the pandemic, UNICEF continued to
negotiate with parties to conflict and armed groups to
protect education from attacks and to encourage the
endorsement and implementation of the Safe Schools
Declaration.
Within the Global Polio Eradication Initiative partnership,
UNICEF continued to lead in vaccine procurement and
key strategic communication. In 63 countries reporting
humanitarian situations, a total of 17 million children
were vaccinated against measles.
UNICEF provided protective services to millions of
children affected by armed conflict, natural disasters
and public health emergencies, including COVID‑19,
across 145 countries, compared to 74 in 2019. Around
47.2 million children, adolescents, parents and
caregivers benefited from community-based mental
health and psychosocial support, including targeted
community awareness campaigns. In 2020, there was a
142 per cent increase in the number of unaccompanied
and separated children supported by UNICEF and a
163 per cent increase in unaccompanied and separated
children registered and provided with alternative care
and/or reunification services, compared to 2019.
Four million children in humanitarian settings were
treated for severe acute malnutrition, including
227,480 children aged 0–59 months in Yemen (86 per
cent of target), from among 3,072,407 children under
five who were screened.

Three siblings in the Al-Kharaib Refugee Camp,
Sana’a, in Yemen. The conflict has left three million
people, including 1.58 million children, internally
displaced.
© UNICEF/UNI338488

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

36

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Change Strategy: 		
Winning support for
children and young people

Winning support for the cause of children from
decision makers and the wider public was a core
strategy UNICEF applied in 2020 to achieve results for
children. Communication and advocacy became even
more critical in the face of the global pandemic, with
digital channels widely used and advocacy playing a
key role in securing the rights of children in COVID-19
environment.
In 2020, UNICEF introduced four global advocacy
priorities, focusing on Vaccines, Education, Mental
Health and Water and Climate. At the outset of the
pandemic, UNICEF introduced a global COVID-19
Advocacy Framework that was backed by 172 Member
States and launched a call to ‘Reimagine’ the world
for children.
Eighty-one per cent of countries made positive changes
in national child-focused policies, including changes
linked to:
	

End Violence against Children (97)

	

Early Childhood Development (87)

	

Child Survival (56) and

	

Children Uprooted (30)

A total of 185 country offices marked World Children’s
Day through a series of events and activities promoting
child and youth participation. UNICEF’s brand strategy

was implemented globally, positioning UNICEF as a
trusted and credible advocate for children’s rights.
In addition, at least 6.9 million children were reached
through child rights education (CRE). As a result of
concerted effort in response to COVID-19, the number
of volunteers grew from 1.3 million in 2019 to 9.6 million
in 2020, with 84 per cent being 24 years or younger.

TOP RESULTS
UNICEF’s supporter base grew to
128.6 million, comprising over 110 million
digital supporters, 9.6 million volunteers, and
9 million active donors.
UNICEF featured in more than
240,000 online and over 16,000 pieces
in top-tier media outlets on critical issues
affecting children’s rights.
UNICEF’s global and country office web
platforms had 107 million users and
156 million unique page views.
In 106 countries UNICEF actively engaged
with young people on various topics,
including climate advocacy, through U-Report,
Voices of Youth and GenU platforms.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Change Strategy: 		
Partnerships

PUBLIC SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS
In 2020, UNICEF’s public sector partners, including 146 government partners along with
intergovernmental organizations and inter‑organizational arrangements, contributed a
record $5.5 billion in resources for children globally. The three largest contributors in 2020
were the United States, Germany and the European Union.

	 The United States was UNICEF’s largest donor,
contributing a historic $801 million ($759.8 million
in 2019). This contribution included vital COVID-19
funding and support to countries that have not traditionally received support from the United States.
	 Germany was UNICEF’s second-largest financial
partner, growing its contribution to $744 million
in 2020. The partnership between UNICEF and
Germany continued to focus on a multisectoral
approach for resilience building to strengthen the
capacities of vulnerable children and communities
in difficult-to-reach contexts.
	 2020 was a strong year of partnership with the
European Union. UNICEF received $514 million
of earmarked resources and $66 million through
Joint Programming. The top four sectors receiving
support from the European Union included
education, child protection, health and nutrition.
The European Union and UNICEF, together with the
African Union, consulted over 450,000 European
and African adolescents and young people through
the U-Report to listen to their opinions on climate
change, jobs, education and digitalization, and
shape the upcoming European Union-African Union
Heads of State Summit.

	 In 2020, the United Kingdom continued to play
a leading role in supporting UNICEF operations,
providing $510 million in vital support to various
programmes worldwide including COVID-19
response and playing a key advocacy role around
child protection, gender, nutrition, health and
humanitarian response. The United Kingdom is
UNICEF’s second-largest humanitarian partner.
	 In 2020, the Nordic partners (Denmark, Finland,
Iceland, Norway and Sweden) were the top
partners for strategic and high-quality funding for
UNICEF programmes focusing on child protection,
education, WASH and humanitarian assistance
for the most vulnerable children. Norway made
the first and largest contribution to Global Health
Thematic Funding Pool and established an
innovative multi-year Partnership Framework for
Disability with flexible funding.
	 The Netherlands was the largest contributor to
the Global Nutrition and Humanitarian Thematic
Funding pools, which allows UNICEF to speedily
respond to emergencies with high-quality flexible
funding.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

38

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

With the support of the European Union, UNICEF is working with
the Government of Mozambique to support people displaced
by internal conflict in Cabo Delgado Province. The partnership
provides housing, nutrition and health services as well as integrated
emergency assistance and chld protection services.
© UNICEF/UN0371583/FRANCO

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

	 In 2020, Japan was one of the first and
largest donors to the UNICEF’s COVID-19
response appeal providing $112.2 million that
enabled UNICEF to provide personal protective
equipment to frontline health workers,
enhanced risk communication and community
engagement with key COVID-19 prevention
messages, improved access to safe water
and sanitation facilities as well as education,
child protection and psychosocial service to
over 660 million children and their families in
66 countries.
	 The 2020 contribution from Spain to UNICEF
grew from $5.3 to $6.8 million; from Switzerland
to a record $51 million; and from France from
$22 million in 2019 to $34 million in 2020.
In addition, UNICEF signed the watershed
Framework Agreement with the French
Development Agency, the first of its kind
within the United Nations system.
	 Humanitarian pooled funding mechanisms
continued to play a critical role in the UNICEF
humanitarian response in 2020. The Central
Emergency Relief Fund provided US$177.1
million to more than 40 countries, including
COVID-19 response. Country-based pooled
funds awarded US$42.6 million in contributions
to 12 countries to address the challenges
outlined in country humanitarian response
plans. Combined, both pooled funds amounted
to 10 per cent of the total funds received.
	 2020 was an unprecedented year for UNICEF’s
engagement with the Global Programme
Partnerships whose contribution to UNICEF
more than tripled in 2020 to an all-time high
of $551 million directly and $150 million
indirectly from $270million in 2015. The Global
Partnership for Education was the top Global
Programme Partnerships donor, providing
$363 million with significant growth with Gavi,
the Vaccine Alliance and the Global Fund.

	 In 2020, the World Bank Group and UNICEF
tripled their country footprint establishing
projects for children in nearly 50 countries. The
contribution to UNICEF was $99 million directly
and $104 million through tripartite agreements.
In addition, the World Bank Group funded
$93 million through UNICEF Procurement
Services. UNICEF was the Bank’s lead United
Nations partner for the COVID‑19 response.
UNICEF also partnered with the World Bank
Group on health and nutrition, WASH, digital
education/connectivity, cash transfers/social
protection, and jobs/skills for youth.
	 In 2020, UNICEF continued its collaboration
with the World Bank, UNHCR, ILO and IFC
under the PROSPECTS Partnership, funded
by the Government of the Netherlands and
implemented across eight countries in the Horn
of Africa and the Middle East.
	 In a first-of-its-kind collaboration, the Group
of Friends on Children and the SDGs, in
collaboration with the European Union and
together with a group of Latin American
and Caribbean States, issued a statement
committing to “Protect our Children” and
prioritize their education, food security, health
and safety amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The
statement garnered wide support, receiving
over 170 endorsements from United Nations
Member States and Permanent Observers.
	 Luxembourg continued to provide predictable
multi-year contributions to the UNICEF’s Core
Resources and Global Thematic Funding Pools
on Education, Health and Nutrition, WASH
and Gender Equality. The Republic of Korea
provided multi-year Humanitarian Thematic
Funding and the Government of China
provided $7.6 million support to UNICEF’s
COVID-19 response and recovery in Cameroon,
the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana,
Liberia, Senegal and South Sudan.

RESPONDING
UNICEF ANNUAL
TO COVID-19
REPORT 2020

40
40

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS
For the first time, UNICEF raised more than $2 billion for children from the private sector, and
partnerships across the spectrum delivered on all fronts.
In 2020, 133 million children were reached through non-financial partnerships with business, compared
to 34.3 million children in 2019. The number of shared-value partnerships increased from 15 in 2019 to
21 in 2020. The Business for Results initiative continued to develop the knowledge, resources and skills
across UNICEF to ensure the relevance of business is mainstreamed into programmes to achieve results
for children. One hundred and twelve UNICEF offices and National Committees engaged with business to
support advocacy and integrate children’s considerations into responsible business conduct. The Business
for Results training has been rolled out in 25 countries. UNICEF’s work on Child Rights and Business
continued to accelerate, with 49 country offices and 12 National Committees reporting on activities.

Child rights and business

Corporate partnerships

In 2020, UNICEF worked with governments,
businesses, investors and multi-stakeholder
initiatives to promote and improve responsible
business policy and practice for children, including
in the context of COVID-19 response and recovery
measures.

In 2020, UNICEF and partners raised $244 million,
21 per cent more than in 2019 and exceeding the
$182 million target. This was made possible partly
thanks to these partnerships:

In collaboration with the International Labour
Organization, UN Women, United Nations Global
Compact and national partners, UNICEF issued
recommendations, engaged in advocacy and
worked with businesses in more than 50 countries
to promote family-friendly policies and other good
workplace practices to mitigate the socio-economic
consequences of COVID-19 on families and children.
UNICEF expanded its partnership with Norges Bank
Investment Management and strengthened its
collaboration with other partners to improve industry
practices and expand the range of child rights criteria
in environmental, social and governance frameworks.
In partnership with Germany and members of
the European Parliament, UNICEF expanded
the integration of children’s rights in forthcoming
European Union mandatory due diligence for
business. Developed with long-standing partner the
Lego Group and other ICT businesses right at the
start of the COVID-19 pandemic, UNICEF issued
guidance on respecting children’s rights for the online
gaming industry.

	 Unilever donated millions of hygiene
products across 23 countries, including over
30 million bars of soap, reaching people
around the world with critical hand-washing
supplies.
	 As a response to COVID-19, LIXIL and
UNICEF expanded its ‘Make a Splash!’
partnership to include handwashing along
with existing sanitation targets.
	 A five-year partnership with Louis Vuitton,
which has raised $13 million, has been
renewed with a five-year commitment to
support children in emergency situations.
	 The Learning Passport, powered by a
partnership with Microsoft, was rapidly
expanded during school closures to ensure
children and young people could continue
learning from anywhere. Since 2020, the
platform has reached students, teachers and
caregivers in 10 countries.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

Foundation partnerships
In 2020, the foundation partnership portfolio grew
32 per cent over 2019, mobilizing $223 million, of which
more than $34 million supported COVID-19 efforts.
	 UNICEF worked with the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation on COVID-19 efforts, with the
foundation’s support of the ACT-A/COVAX initiative
being critical to the global response. UNICEF
and the foundation also launched the Joint
Investment Mechanism, a co-financed flexible
funding instrument (totalling $50 million) that
will scale up proven interventions in Africa.
	 Several foundation partners supported UNICEF’s
COVID-19 response, including landmark
investments from the United Nations Foundation
through the COVID-19 Solidarity Response Fund
and the Mastercard Foundation, and major
contributions from Conrad N. Hilton Foundation,
Stavros Niarchos Foundation and Qatar Charity.
UNICEF’s partnership with Educate A Child led
to $20 million in new commitments to support
300,000 out-of-school children in Kenya and the
Sudan. UNICEF is among the foundation’s most
important strategic partners in helping children
access education in humanitarian, conflict and
development contexts. UNICEF has expanded its
partnership with the Children’s Investment Fund
Foundation, including launching a new multicountry collaboration to transform the prevention
and treatment of child wasting.

Philanthropy partners
In 2020, philanthropists, faith and membership
organizations contributed $191 million to improve
children’s lives. UNICEF’s International Council – a
collective of UNICEF’s closest and most influential
private philanthropic partners – grew from 63 to
76 members and advanced their commitments
to children with financial contributions exceeding
$37 million in 2020.
	 Arigatou International, marking 30 years
of partnership, continued its engagement to
secure the well-being and rights of children,
with a focus on ending violence and on
inter‑religious dialogue.

Multi-stakeholder partnerships
	 The World Economic Forum positioned UNICEF
as a lead partner, for example in the Stewardship
Board for the New Economy and Society and the
Jobs Reset Summit; in the Global Future Council
on Mental Health; and on COVID-19, including
by issuing a ‘Supply Chain & Transport Industry
Charter’.
	 The International Chamber of Commerce and
UNICEF collaborated on a joint call to action,
Reimagining the World We Need, for a resilient and
sustainable COVID-19 recovery, and on a guide to
Family-Friendly Business Continuity shared with
45 million ICC member companies.
	 UNICEF and the Global Battery Alliance initiated
the Cobalt Action Partnership in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and launched a countrypooled ‘Fund for the Prevention of Child Labour
in Mining Communities’, mobilizing an initial
$1 million of a three-year programme, totalling
$21 million.
	 Mobilizing Hand Hygiene for All – a UNICEFconvened, public-private coalition with the World
Economic Forum, World Health Organization,
World Bank and private-sector partners –
addressed 3 billion people’s lack of access to
handwashing in the fight against COVID-19, with
the objective to shape local markets to produce
and deliver hand hygiene products and services.

	 Rotary International renewed its commitment to
eradicating polio worldwide by contributing more
than $61.6 million.
	 Latter-day Saint Charities continued its support
of immunization and early childhood development
programmes and responded to COVID-19 by
providing $3 million for infection prevention and
control, and WASH services.
	 Zonta International contributed $3 million
to renew its commitment to preventing child
marriages globally and helping girls access
education in Madagascar, in addition to new
support to ensure adolescent girls in Peru have
access to health care..

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

42

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

UNITED NATIONS PARTNERSHIPS

BELOW: An officer from the Integrated Child
Welfare Services Centre (right) invites Farah
Nizza and her mother Yuliati to play after
handing over a recreational kit for children
affected by COVID‑19 at their home in
Jombang, Indonesia, October 2020.
UN agencies in Indonesia including UNICEF,
UNDP, UN OCHA, UN WOMEN, and WFP
are working together on the COVID-19
Multi‑Partner Trust Fund (COVID-19 MPTF) and
the Joint SDGs Fund. The objective of both
programmes is to support the government
of Indonesia to enhance policy and capacity
to scale up and expand social protection to
cover affected and marginalized populations,
particularly women and children.
© UNICEF/UN0379103/BEA

	 The WHO-UNICEF Strategic Collaboration
Framework enhances collaboration and accelerates
public health efforts through universal health coverage,
mental health, public health emergencies, and
maternal and child nutrition while working together at
the frontline of the global response to COVID-19 and
the rollout of vaccines.
	 UNHCR and UNICEF Blueprint for Joint Action for
Refugee Children will accelerate efforts in line with the
Global Compact on Refugees to promote and protect
the rights of refugee children and the communities
that host them through their inclusion in national plans,
budgets and service delivery systems across protection,
education, and water, sanitation and hygiene.
	 UNDP and UNICEF joined forces to support the
socio-economic response to COVID-19 pooling
assets and expertise in development financing,
youth empowerment and innovation, and climate
change, resilience and adaptation. The two agencies
also strengthened collaboration on financing for
development.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

Change Strategy: 		
Innovation
With the launch of UNICEF’s first Global Innovation Strategy in the beginning of 2020,
UNICEF continued its shift towards integrated, strategic, problem-driven innovations
that focus on solutions that can be scaled up. The Strategy aims to position innovation
as a key tool to achieve widespread and lasting change for children. Through a portfolio
management approach, UNICEF has established nine global innovation portfolios to focus
efforts and resources on identifying and scaling up innovations that are transformational.
The pandemic opened up new ways of thinking that have accelerated the scale-up of
innovation and ushered in a new era of innovative problem-solving.

TOP RESULTS
	 UNICEF signed agreements with 14 mobile
network operators, spanning more than
100 countries and territories and 1.8 billion
subscribers enabling access to data and
educational content, as well as aiding in the
prevention of violence.
	 UNICEF helped more than 1.3 million young
people in 34 countries gain transferable social
innovation and entrepreneurship skills through the
UPSHIFT programme. Seventeen countries rapidly
digitized UPSHIFT in response to the COVID-19
pandemic.
	 Giga, a UNICEF and ITU global initiative to
connect every school to the Internet, is now active
in 15 countries, and has mapped 800,000 schools.
	 Released Policy Guidance on AI for Children
in consultation with stakeholders including AI
developers and young people.

	 Deployment of durable, multi-purpose highperformance tents, for use in emergencies,
generated after two years of consultations with
the private and public sectors.
	 The Leading Minds Series went digital and
reached thousands, presenting experts and
research on the impact of COVID-19 on children.
	 UNICEF rolled out 9 frontier technology
solutions in 14 countries. The solutions include
Bothub, an open-source language processing
system used in the creation of HealthBuddy,
a multilingual, interactive chatbot using AI to
answer questions and provide local information
on COVID-19 and INVENT, a global platform
for innovation and technology for development
that boosts the visibility of innovative work
across UNICEF and enables resources and
investment to be targeted towards promising and
transformational innovations.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

44

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: INNOVATION

Somaya Faruqi, 17 (centre) led the Girls’ Robotics Club
from Herat, western Afghanistan, in developing a prototype
low‑cost ventilator in 2020 to contribute to the fight against
COVID-19 at a time when a limited number of ventilators
across the country threatened the most vulnerable.
“Every girl in Herat and across Afghanistan has the capacity
to bring positive change in her community,” said Somaya.
“Though, not everyone is privileged, or has access to
education or gained the support to pursue her passion.”
© UNICEF/UN0385763/FAZEL

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

Financials and Stewardship
UNICEF’s work for children
is funded entirely through
individual donations and
the voluntary support of
government, civil society and
private sector partners.

Despite the challenges of COVID-19, 2020 was a record-breaking year for
UNICEF, with a total revenue of $7,548 million, an increase of 18 per cent
from 2019. Revenue from the public sector and private sector was essential
to UNICEF’s rapid and agile response to COVID-19.
COVID-19 reaffirmed the importance of flexible funding. It allows for rapid,
efficient and agile emergency response while also sustaining essential
longer-term programming that builds resilience. However, the ratio of
regular resources to total revenue decreased by 3 percentage points from
2019 (from 22 per cent to 19 per cent).

Total UNICEF revenue by source
and funding type, 2020*
(in US dollars)

ctor and non-govern
e se
me
vat
nta
Pri
l

Other

revenue

Gov
ern
me
nts
an
d

Total funding: $7,548 million

i

encies
al ag
ent
rnm
ve
go
er
nt

l
iona
izatents
n
ga m
-or nge
terarra
n
I

Governments and intergovernmental agencies

Regular resources:	 $412 million	

6%

Other resources:	

60%

$4,517 million	

Private sector and non-governmental organizations

Regular resources:	 $773 million	

10%

Other resources:	

11%

$837 million	

Inter-organizational arrangements

Other resources:	

$767 million	

10%

$242 million	

3%

Other revenue*

Other revenue:	

* Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

46

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

UNICEF revenue, 2014–2020
(in millions of US dollars)
Regular resources

Other resources (regular)

Other resources (emergency)

$4,000
$3,500
$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500
0
2014

2015

2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

Top 10 countries, contributions received by donor and funding type, 2020*
(in millions of US dollars)

$700

Government: Regular resources

Private sector: Regular resources

Government: Other resources

Private sector: Other resources

$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
0

United
States

Germany

United
Kingdom

Japan

Sweden

Norway

Netherlands

Canada

Republic
of Korea

France

* Includes contributions received from governments and UNICEF National Committees; excludes intergovernmental,
non-governmental and inter-organizational arrangements

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 partners to regular resources
by contributions received, 2020

Thematic contributions received,
2018–2020

(in millions of US dollars)

(in millions of US dollars)

COUNTRY

REGULAR RESOURCES

OUTCOME AREAS

2018

2019

2020

13

14

24

United States

154

1. Health

Japan (NC*)

133

2. HIV and AIDS

9

7

7

Germany

102

3. Nutrition

7

16

21

Korea (NC)

82

4. Education

100

84

122

Sweden

70

5. Child Protection

29

34

26

Spain (NC)

65

6. WASH

66

32

24

57

7. Safe and Clean Environment

1

1

1

United Kingdom

51

8. Social Inclusion

6

9

7

Sweden (NC)

48

9. Gender Equality

1

3

4

France (NC)

48

10. Humanitarian

154

145

202

Netherlands (NC)

40

Total

386

345

438

Italy (NC)

39

Norway

39

Netherlands

36

United Kingdom (NC)

30

Switzerland

21

United States (NC)

21

Japan

20

Belgium

18

Australia

15

Germany (NC)

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

* National Committee for UNICEF.

Multi-year regular resources partners, 2016 – 2020
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)

DONOR COUNTRY
NAME

REVENUE*

PERIOD
2016 

2017

2018

MULTI–YEAR
AGREEMENT**
2019

2020

Sweden 

4 years (2018–2021) 

–

–

294

0

1

295

United Kingdom

3 years (2018–2020) 

–

–

122

18

14

154

Netherlands 

3 years (2019–2021) 

–

–

–

110

3

114

Australia 

5 years (2016–2020) 

16

49

(3)

(1)

15

76

Belgium 

4 years (2017–2020) 

–

72

(1)

(1)

1

71

Switzerland 

3 years (2018–2020) 

–

–

61

0

0

61

Canada 

4 years (2018–2021) 

–

–

48

1

(0)

49

Denmark

3 years (2020 –2022)

–

–

–

–

21

21

New Zealand

3 years (2019–2021) 

–

–

–

12

0

12

Qatar 
Total 

2 years (2019–2020) 
  

–

–

8

–

–

8

16

121

529

141

55

860

* Revenue is recognized, for the most part, in the year the agreement is signed and amounts in other years represent revaluation due to
exchange rate fluctuations.
** Revenue data exclude write-downs.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

48

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 30 resource partners by contributions received, 2020
(in millions of US dollars)*

PARTNER

REGULAR
RESOURCES

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

Regular

Emergency

United States

154

97

550

801

Germany

102

586

57

744

–

372

142

514

51

182

278

510

European Commission
United Kingdom
Global Partnership for Education

–

363

–

363

United States (NC**)

21

206

59

286

Norway

39

166

12

218

Japan

20

22

176

217

Sweden

70

100

43

213

–

0

210

210

133

20

20

173

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs ***
Japan (NC)
United Nations Development Programme ****

–

115

25

141

Canada

12

69

48

129

Netherlands

36

70

21

128

Germany (NC)

57

27

35

119

–

58

41

99

82

12

1

94

–

94

–

94

World Bank Group
Korea (NC)
Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance
United Nations Development Group Joint Programmes

–

91

1

92

United Kingdom (NC)

30

29

29

88

Spain (NC)

65

8

7

80

France (NC)

48

11

8

66

Sweden (NC)

48

7

8

63

Netherlands (NC)

40

9

6

54

Denmark

9

14

31

54

21

13

17

51

Democratic Republic of the Congo *****

0

39

10

49

Republic of Korea

3

32

13

49

Saudi Arabia

1

0

47

48

39

2

4

45

Switzerland

Italy (NC)

*Contributions received in cash and in kind. 				
** National Committee for UNICEF.				
*** Contributions received from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs include $177.1 million related to the Central Emergency
Response Fund, $32.5 million related to humanitarian country–based pooled funds and $0.7 million from other sources. 		
**** Contributions received from the United Nations Development Programme include $78.2 million related to joint programmes and the One UN
Fund, $52.3 million from other sources and $10.1 million related to humanitarian country–based pooled funds. 			
***** Contributions received from the Democratic Republic of the Congo include $31.7 million pass–through funds from Gavi, the Vaccine
Alliance and $17.3 million pass-through funds from the World Bank Group. 				
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Private foundations, major donors, partnerships with subregional governments,
membership-based and faith-based organizations contributing $100,000 or more
to UNICEF programmes in 2020
Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair Foundation
Agencia Asturiana de Cooperación
(Spain)
Agència Catalana de Cooperació al
Desenvolupament (Spain)
Agencia Vasca de Cooperación al
Desarrollo-Elankidetza (Spain)
AJA Foundation
Akelius
Naza Alakija
Alkhayyat Foundation
Anthony and L. Britt Giuffre Family
Fund
The Ariadne Getty Foundation
Arigatou International
Ayuntamiento de Gijón (Spain)
Ayuntamiento de Madrid (Spain)
Brenda and Stéphane Bancel
Band Aid Charitable Trust
Mr. and Ms. Paula H. Barbour
Stefan Bengtsson
The Bezos Family
BF&Happy
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
Thomas C. Bishop
Peter and Charlotte Bolland
Patrick and Michele Boushka
George and Danielle Boutros
Robert and Hilary Brinker
Dr. Lori Brown
Rob & Amy Brown
Bruce and Jina Veaco Foundation
Carolyn and Preston Butcher
Cabildo de Gran Canaria (Spain)
Ms. Anne Champsaur
The Charles Engelhard Foundation
The Child & Tree Fund
Children’s Investment Fund
Foundation
Chiquitita
Conrad N. Hilton Foundation
The Constance Travis Trust
Leonardo Maria del Vecchio
The Delta Fund
The Derek A.T. Drummond Fund
DFID
Dharma Drum Mountain Buddhist
Association
The Dietz Family Fund
Diputación Foral de Bizkaia-Bizkaiko
Foru Aldundia (Spain)
Diputación Foral de GipuzkoaGipuzkoako Foru Aldundia (Spain)
Dubai Cares

Mr. Duchao
Education Above All, Educate A Child
Mr. and Mrs. Edwards
EIB Institute
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Eisenson
Elbert H, Evelyn J, Karen H. Waldron
Charitable Foundation
Eleanor Crook Foundation
The Eleva Foundation
Elton John AIDS Foundation
The Estate of Penny Allyn
Eva Ahlström Foundation
FIA Foundation
Stefan Findel and Susan
Cummings-Findel
Five Together Foundation
Fondation Botnar
Ford Foundation
Virginia Fulton
Fundación Leo Messi
G. Barrie Landry, Landry Family
Foundation
The Garrett Family Foundation
Generalitat Valenciana (Spain)
GHR Foundation
Gobierno de Aragón (Spain)
Gobierno de Navarra (Spain)
Gobierno Vasco-Eusko Jaurlaritza
(Spain)
Ms. Kaia Miller Goldstein and Mr.
Jonathan Goldstein
Deborah Hart and Bill Goodykoontz
Govern de les Illes Balears (Spain)
John A Herrmann Jr.
Marisa I. Hormel
Hobson/Lucas Family Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Dariush and Nazanin
Hosseini
IKEA Foundation
International Budget Partnership
Islamic Relief USA
J.T. Tai & Co. Foundation, Inc.
Japan Committee, Vaccines for the
World’s Children
Joe Jarvis
Jina Jeong
Junta de Castilla y León (Spain)
Kayhau Wu Memorial Fund
Dr. Sipper Kaur Khurana and Mr. Ajay
K. Khurana
Peter Kim and Kathryn Spitzer Kim
Kiwanis International
Klaus und Gertrud Conrad Stiftung
Amy Kuehner

Kwok Foundation
Latter-day Saint Charities
Téa Leoni
Johan and Ms Claire Levavasseur
Mr. and Mrs. Richard B. Levy
Mr. Jeremy Lin
D.G. and Kimberli Macpherson
James Maitland
Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies
Margaret Alkek Williams and
the Albert and Margaret Alkek
Foundation
Mastercard Foundation
Melody Wilder Wilson and David
Wilson
Micky And Madeleine Arison Family
Foundation
Megha and Mr Aditya Mittal
The Moondance Foundation
National Philanthropic Trust
New Venture Fund
Oak Foundation
Gloria Principe and John O’Farrell
Christine M.J. Oliver
Open Society Initiative for West
Africa
Mr. Surin and Ms. Somporn
Osathanugrah
Purvi and Harsh Padia
Andrea, Luisa and Annagreta
Panconesi, LUISAVIAROMA
Power of Nutrition
Qatar Charity
Randell Charitable Fund
Rissho Kosei-kai
Eleanor Robbins
Mrs. Betty Robinson
The Rockefeller Foundation
Alejandro Roemmers
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Rogers
Ms. Susan Littlefield and Mr. Martin
F. Roper
The Roots & Wings Foundation
Rotary Australia and New Zealand
The Rotary Foundation of Rotary
International
Nicolas Poitevin and Juliana V.
Ruecker
Crystal and Chris Sacca
Mr. Osama Saeed
The Schwab Fund for Charitable
Giving
Scottish Government
Pooja Bhandari & Caesar Sengupta

Natalie Serrino
Shinnyo-en
Slaight Family Foundation
Sobrato Philanthropies
Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus Spurlino
Stavros Niarchos Foundation
George Stein
Stichting de Lichtboei
Stichting Samenwerkende
Hulporganisaties (SHO)
Heike und Reinhold Fleckenstein
Stiftung
Henryk Sznap Stiftung
Klaus Friedrich Stiftung
Maßvoll Stiftung, under the aegis of
Fondation de Luxembourg
Robert Bosch Stiftung
Colin and Ms. Sue Stone
Suk Soo Kim
Sheikh Mohammad Suliman
Tanoto Foundation
Julie Taymor
Mr. Phil Telfeyan
The Tom Mikuni and Minnie Obe
Hirayama Charitable Fund
Trott Family Philanthropies
Niccolò Moriconi Ultimo
United Nations Foundation
University of Edinburgh
University of North Carolina
Mr. Randall Van Wolfswinkel
Victor E. Clarke Charitable Foundation
Wellcome Trust
Mr. Robert J. Weltman
Philipp Widmayer
Xunta de Galicia – Cooperación
Galega (Spain)
Zonta International

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

50

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Corporate sector alliances contributing $100,000 or more to UNICEF programmes in 2020
MULTI-COUNTRY ALLIANCES Orbia

Amadeus IT Group
Arm Ltd
AstraZeneca Young Health
Programme
Belarto
Big Hit Entertainment
BT Group
CCC
Change for Good [Aer Lingus
(Ireland), American Airlines
(United States), Asiana
Airlines (Republic of Korea);
Cathay Pacific Airways
(Hong Kong, China), Cebu
Pacific Air (Philippines),
easyJet (United Kingdom),
Japan Airlines (Japan),
Qantas Airways Ltd.
(Australia)]
Chloé
Clarios Foundation
Clé de Peau Beauté
Cubus AS
DSM
Ericsson
Facebook, Inc.
Fundación FC Barcelona
Gardena GmbH
Gina Tricot
Google, Inc.
Grohe
H&M Foundation
H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB
Hallmark Cards, Inc.
Henkel AG & Co. KGaA
ING
Johnson & Johnson, Inc.
Kimberly-Clark Corporation
L’Occitane
LEGO Foundation
LEGO Group
LIXIL Corporation
Louis Vuitton Malletier
Marriott International, Inc.
(Check Out for Children®)
Meliá Hotels International
Merck for Mothers
Microsoft
Millicom
MMG Limited
Moncler
MSC Foundation
Nordic Choice Hotels AS
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA
Novo Nordisk A/S

Pandora A/S
Philips Foundation
Primark
Procter & Gamble
PwC
SAP SE
Takeda Pharmaceutical
Company Limited
Telenor Group
Temasek Foundation
Tik Tok
Unilever Group
Vivendi (Paddington)
Volvic
YouTube, LLC
NATIONAL ALLIANCES

Angola
Banco de Fomento Angola
Argentina
BIND Banco Industrial
HSBC Argentina S.A.
Prisma S.A.
Australia
Commonwealth Bank of
Australia
IMC Pacific Foundation
Newcrest Mining
PayPal Giving Fund Australia
Belarus
Wargaming Group Limited
ZAO Itransition
Belgium
Umicore
Brazil
B3 Social
Bayer
Colgate-Palmolive
EDF
Fundação Itaú
Fundação Vale
Gemini
Johnson & Johnson Brazil
Lojas Americanas
Malwee
MPT
Omega Energia
Profarma
Solvi
Bulgaria
VAN Holding (FANTASTICO)
Canada
B2Gold Corp.
Pan American Silver Corp.
Teck Resources Ltd.

China
BYHEALTH Co., LTD
Springs Capital (Beijing)
Limited
Springs Capital (Hong Kong)
Limited
Colombia
Banco de Bogota
Banco de Occidente
Deportivo Cali
Denmark
AP Møller Mærsk
Augustinus Foundation
DSB
Haldor Topsøe
Hempel Foundation
Novo Nordisk Foundation
Poul Due Jensen Foundation
Saxo
Ecuador
Diners Club Del Ecuador
Egypt
American Chamber of
Commerce in Egypt
Finland
Ahlström Collective Impact
France
Animoca
AXA
Clairefontaine Rhodia
Ethereum Foundation
Fondation EDF
Fondation L’OREAL
Fondation SANOFI
Gémo
Petit Bateau
Showroomprivé
Germany
AmazonSmile
BASF Foundation / BASF SE
H&M Hennes & Mauritz
Deutschland
IKEA Deutschland GmbH &
Co. KG
United Internet for UNICEF
Foundation
Viessmann Werke GmbH &
Co. KG
Würth Group
Gulf countries
SAFEIS – Gamers Without
Borders
Tik Tok MENA
Hong Kong
Prudence Foundation
Sunshine Forever Limited

India
DBS Bank India Limited
Hindustan Unilever Limited
Johnson & Johnson Pvt Ltd
Sun Foundation
UNGCNI/Capgemini
Indonesia
Kimberly Clark – Softex
Prudential Indonesia
Wings Group Indonesia
Italy
Fondazione Generali The
Human Safety Net
Schwarzkopf Henkel
Tempo Essity 	
Japan
AEON 1% Club Foundation
Azbil Corporation
CONSUMERS CO‑OPERATIVE
KOBE
Consumers’ Co‑operative Mirai
Co-op Deli Consumers’
Co‑operative Union
COOP SAPPORO
Daiwabo Information System
Co, Ltd
Fuji Television Network, Inc.
(FNS Charity Campaign)
Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
IDOM Inc.
ITOHAM FOODS Inc.
Japanese Consumers’
Co‑operative Union
Japanet Holdings Co., Ltd.
Kao Corporation
MUFG Bank, Ltd.
Nippon Life Insurance
Company	
Nitto Denko Corporation
The Pokémon Company
Saraya Co., Ltd.
SL Creations Co., Ltd.
Sony Group Corporation
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation
Sumitomo Mitsui Card
Company, Ltd.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group, Inc.
Tsuruha Holdings, Inc.
U CO-OP Consumer
Co‑operative Society
Mexico
Essity Higiene y Salud
Fundación MetLife México /
MetLife México

Kimberly Clark de México
Laboratorios Liomont
The Netherlands
Avery Dennison
ERG Gemeente den haag
Nationale Postcode Loterij
Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend
Nederland (RVO)
TUi Care Foundation
New Zealand
Bybit Fintech Limited
Nigeria
IHS Towers
Norway
DNB
Hydro
KIWI Norge AS
Peru
Banco de Crédito del Perú
(BCP)
Philippines
Johnson & Johnson Global
Community Impact Fund
Republic of Korea
BGF Retail
Blue Industry
SAMSUNG Electronics
SD Biosensor
SM Entertainment
Romania
Lidl
Serbia
Nordeus
Schneider Electric DMS NS LLC
Novi Sad
South Africa
British Telkom
Standard Bank
Woolworths
Spain
Abertis
Amgen
El Corte Inglés
Forletter
Ibainefico
Iberia
ICT-Foxy
La Liga
Original Buff
Pymes Amigas
We Are Water Foundation –
ROCA
Sudan
CTC Group
Sweden
Akelius Foundation

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

51

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Boråstapeter AB
Companies for Malawi
Pictura AB
Sandvik Coromant AB
Swedish Postcode Lottery
Switzerland
ALDI SUISSE AG
Banque Lombard Odier & Cie SA
Pictet Group Foundation
Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust
Swiss Re Foundation
Thailand
Central Food Retail Co., Ltd
Central Group
Osotspa PCL and
Osathanugrah Foundation
Sansiri Public Company Limited

Ukraine
EPAM Systems
The First Ukrainian
International Bank
PrivatBank Ukraine (Charity
fund ‘Helping is simple’)
United Kingdom
Clarks
Ethical Tea Partnership
Extreme E
Formula E
Kurt Geiger
London Stock Exchange Group
People’s Postcode Lottery
Standard Chartered
Tetley
Twinings
Vitality

Vodafone
United States
AbbVie Inc.
American Express Global
Business Travel
Apple Inc.
Applied Medical
Astellas Global Health
Foundation
Autolotto Inc.
Baker Hughes Foundation
Bank of America Foundation
Baxter International Foundation
Bethesda Softworks
Cigna Foundation
Cognizant Foundation
Cook Children’s Health Care
System

EPAM
Global Impact
GP Cellulose
Gucci
Hasbro
IKEA U.S. Retail
Jefferies LLC
L’Oréal USA: Giorgio Armani
Fragrances
Medtronic, Inc.
NBC Universal
Newell Brands
Prudential Financial
Roblox
S&P Global Foundation
Salesforce.org
Sony Corporation of America
The Starbucks Foundation

Target Corporation
The UPS Foundation
Verizon Services Corporate
Group
ViacomCBS
Visa Foundation
Visa International, Inc.
Wells Fargo
The World Bank
World Wrestling Entertainment
Xylem Inc.
Viet Nam
Shopee Co.

Top 20 National Committee donors, 2020
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)

COUNTRY

REGULAR RESOURCES**

OTHER RESOURCES

18

301

319

141

40

180

Germany

61

64

125

United Kingdom ***

22

73

95

Republic of Korea

77

14

91

Spain

61

18

79

France

51

21

72

Sweden

43

22

65

Netherlands

42

15

57

Italy

United States
Japan

TOTAL

44

7

51

Canada

9

24

33

Denmark

8

22

31

Switzerland

10

18

28

Finland

16

6

22

Norway

7

12

19

Belgium

15

4

19

Hong Kong, China

13

5

18

Australia

5

8

12

Poland

9

2

11

Portugal

8

2

10

* National Committee ranking is based on revenue amounts in order to be comparable to fundraising plans that are also revenue based.
** Regular resources excludes other contributions.
*** 2020 contributions from the UK national committee include $0.6 million from Jersey Overseas Aid, which is an independent
international aid agency, funded by the British Crown Dependency of Jersey.				
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.				

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

52

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2020
(in US dollars)

OVERVIEW
Regular resources

1. Countries*

Other resources

Other Contributions ***

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

411,694,325

719,970,767

3,105,529,317

836,794,043

375,000

52,393,066

5,126,756,518

2. Intergovernmental
agencies

–

–

1,411,262,807

–

–

–

1,411,262,807

3. Non–governmental
organizations

–

961,076

–

(11,712)

–

–

949,364

4. Inter–organizational
arrangements

–

–

767,347,247

–

79,355

–

767,426,602

5. Other revenue**

–

–

–

–

–

–

241,955,405

411,694,325

720,931,843

5,284,139,371

836,782,331

454,355

52,393,066

7,548,350,696

Total

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees.
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
*** Contributions for specific management activities.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

1. DONOR COUNTRIES AND AREAS*	
Regular resources
Countries

Other resources

Public sector

Private sector

411,694,325

719,970,767

Other contributions **

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

3,105,529,317

836,794,043

375,000

52,393,066

5,126,756,518

Afghanistan

67,853

–

37,823,204

–

–

–

37,891,057

Andorra

28,011

337,537

9,938

548,909

–

–

924,395

Angola

180,000

–

–

246,304

–

–

426,304

–

4,569,859

–

11,333,570

–

5,446,891

21,350,320

Argentina
Armenia

120,790

–

–

20,050

–

–

140,840

Australia

15,144,498

4,919,210

35,082,155

7,543,254

–

–

62,689,117

Austria

1,187,648

3,937,468

2,106,634

653,278

–

–

7,885,029

Bangladesh

161,235

–

10,852,291

4,608

–

–

11,018,133

Barbados

195,575

195,575

–

–

–

–

–

Belarus

–

–

–

438,848

–

–

438,848

Belgium

1,180,076

15,334,288

157,941

3,796,104

–

–

20,468,408

Benin

24,124

–

6,086,559

–

–

–

6,110,683

Bhutan

13,118

–

–

–

–

–

13,118

140,000

–

–

233,620

–

–

373,620

1,892,473

1,332,662

273,986

12,564,916

–

3,202,980

19,267,017

78,500

56,362

85,193

618,919

–

259,520

1,098,495

5,106

–

5,154,761

–

–

–

5,159,867

–

–

10,514,147

–

–

–

10,514,147

350,000

–

–

–

–

–

350,000

–

–

3,688,041

–

–

–

3,688,041

Bolivia (Plurinational
State of )
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Central African
Republic
Chad

–

–

2,234,466

90,000

–

–

2,324,466

(479,385)

8,966,309

57,810,495

23,798,409

–

–

90,095,828

44,000

–

1,636,419

–

–

–

1,680,419

57,704

–

1,456,655

–

–

–

1,514,359

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2020, continued

Regular resources
Public sector
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

–

4,753,114

–

2,706,832

–

2,467,568

9,927,514

1,845,453

1,011,764

8,346,391

18,373,944

–

3,885,595

33,463,147
9,020,193

–

1,381,331

424,798

5,135,095

–

2,078,969

70,000

–

750,000

–

–

–

820,000

748,450

–

1,244,885

–

–

–

1,993,335

19,176

3,124

–

–

–

–

22,300

12,600

–

14,086,226

50,000

–

–

14,148,826

23,002

165,847

–

3,186,602

–

1,060,124

4,435,574

–

10,577

59,744

–

–

–

70,320

–

2,819,752

2,202,825

900,907

–

–

5,923,484

Democratic People's
Republic of Korea

130,070

–

–

–

–

–

130,070

Democratic Republic
of the Congo

434,093

–

43,387,977

–

–

–

43,822,070

22,713,526

8,465,322

40,346,885

22,140,958

–

–

93,666,691

88,000

–

163,651

750,817

–

–

1,002,468

3,600

889,992

–

4,359,193

–

1,626,846

6,879,631

–

20,026

–

1,217,912

–

–

1,237,938

104,305

–

–

–

–

–

104,305

354,006

–

702,446

–

–

–

1,056,452

285,246

–

1,528,068

–

–

–

1,813,314

134,241

–

1,504,926

–

–

–

1,639,167

6,432,749

16,277,640

13,628,740

5,543,082

–

–

41,882,212

6,133,084

51,395,534

32,949,107

20,735,454

–

–

111,213,180

89,452

–

1,206,675

–

–

–

1,296,127

–

–

1,008,801

–

–

–

1,008,801

155,000

–

–

–

–

–

155,000

101,505,459

60,879,035

654,510,921

64,307,052

–

60,000

881,262,466

190,512

–

–

–

–

–

190,512

–

–

2,369,464

–

–

–

2,369,464

350,000

–

13,927,209

–

–

–

14,277,209

621,000

–

–

–

–

–

621,000

–

–

3,612,815

–

–

–

3,612,815

49,510

–

–

–

–

–

49,510

–

12,628,742

–

5,309,854

–

–

17,938,596
4,068,672

Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Grenada
Guinea
Guinea–Bissau
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic
Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's
Democratic Republic
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Lithuania
Lithuania
Luxembourg

3,457,584

551,860

–

59,229

–

–

925,148

3,530,231

4,461,423

389,597

–

–

9,306,399

101,500

100,000

8,897,679

11,304,727

–

3,040,861

23,444,768

144,970

1,580,165

636,627

4,541,459

–

2,834,494

9,737,716

10,000

–

–

273,429

–

–

283,429

48,785

–

–

–

–

–

48,785

7,860,262

3,802,577

14,102,856

3,312,398

–

–

29,078,093

–

–

–

12,509

–

–

12,509

5,305,365

44,004,843

20,434,089

6,613,986

–

–

76,358,283

7,319

–

–

16,023

–

–

23,342

19,750,436

140,898,935

207,152,937

39,589,389

–

52,859

407,444,557

802,963

–

–

–

–

–

802,963

165,310

–

179,690

40,000

–

–

385,000

150,000

–

–

25,000

–

–

175,000

200,000

–

4,000,000

–

–

–

4,200,000

55,000

–

–

25,000

–

–

80,000

–

–

348,138

–

–

–

348,138
188,920

2,500

–

–

186,420

–

–

120,000

–

–

–

–

–

120,000

–

–

1,597,213

–

–

–

1,597,213

–

–

80,713

3,111

–

–

83,824

–

–

80,713

3,111

–

–

83,824

3,275,109

1,976,173

8,267,084

2,937,409

–

–

16,455,774

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

54

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2020, continued

Regular resources
Public sector
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Sao Tome and
Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Tonga
Trinidad Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Total

Private sector

–

–

8,168,605

–

–

–

8,168,605

–

–

26,835,381

–

–

–

26,835,381

284,000

6,652,812

100,000

5,077,974

–

9,254,182

21,368,968

33,500

–

4,045,370

–

–

–

4,078,870

–

–

33,765

–

–

–

33,765

20,610

–

101,865

–

–

–

122,475

–

1,667,136

–

6,167,904

–

2,609,863

10,444,902

27,473

–

477,235

–

–

–

504,707

101,408

–

–

20,000

–

–

121,408

21,912

–

–

–

–

–

21,912

103,567

–

–

–

–

–

103,567

7,500

–

197,551

–

–

–

205,051

43,078

–

36,559,524

2,094

–

–

36,604,696

120,000

–

–

–

–

–

120,000

3,253,924

42,021,109

24,117,733

14,825,299

–

–

84,218,065

154,061

2,561,573

10,166,198

3,220,050

–

–

16,101,882

40,000

–

–

128

–

–

40,128

1,758,911

–

12,317,182

1,679,176

–

–

15,755,268

38,796,366

6,899,938

239,727,107

12,257,729

–

–

297,681,140

442,411

11,576

750,000

–

–

–

1,203,987

–

–

–

191,504

–

–

191,504

749,934

–

350,000

6,981

375,000

–

1,481,915

–

–

8,294,911

–

–

–

8,294,911

–

152,582

–

3,196,601

–

1,877,541

5,226,724

56,774

948,066

–

2,867,259

–

2,454,908

6,327,006

–

9,350,059

417,668

1,553,374

–

–

11,321,102

45,970

7,629,066

56,883

1,936,762

–

–

9,668,681

571

6,588

(571)

23,777,789

–

–

23,784,377

2,931,885

77,347,332

45,511,293

13,784,711

–

–

139,575,221

54,000

–

262,447

–

–

–

316,447

50,000

238,665

333,673

999,685

–

360,311

1,982,333

1,000,000

–

2,492,242

–

–

–

3,492,242

19,500

–

612,889

–

–

–

632,389

639,184

–

48,095,368

6,609,029

–

286,700

55,630,281

398,500

–

978,432

–

–

–

1,376,932

51,000

76,452

298,670

1,954,668

–

512,888

2,893,678

384,000

–

16,343,999

–

–

–

16,727,999

50,000

389,829

–

2,000,000

–

–

2,439,829

11,025

32,390

–

127,770

–

–

171,186

30,400

1,058,762

44,150

203,788

–

–

1,337,100

–

–

1,544,328

–

–

–

1,544,328

435,700

–

6,000,000

–

–

–

6,435,700

–

–

–

1,298,928

–

49,761

1,348,690

166,720

–

–

–

–

–

166,720

2,339,899

60,861,565

4,150,716

17,725,531

–

–

85,077,712

15,630

–

–

221,078

–

–

236,708

121,400

–

8,597,879

1,090,909

–

–

9,810,188

688,671

43,444,625

124,150,668

21,583,126

–

–

189,867,090

102,035

10,388,662

27,074,842

17,898,220

–

–

55,463,759

32,400

–

7,777,756

–

–

–

7,810,156

525,344

6,084,847

–

6,721,572

–

7,097,011

20,428,774

100,000

–

–

–

–

–

100,000

26,000

–

–

16,445

–

–

42,445

–

–

735,126

–

–

–

735,126
15,000

15,000

–

–

–

–

–

30,224

–

–

–

–

–

30,224

54,835

1,707,535

–

505,370

–

–

2,267,740

62,746

–

–

–

–

–

62,746

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

55

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2020, continued

Regular resources
Public sector
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of
Tanzania
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Venezuela (Bolivarian
Republic of)
Viet Nam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Other
Revenue
adjustments***
Total

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Total

Private sector

–

–

640,647

–

–

–

640,647

469,000

–

3,640,801

–

–

–

4,109,801
1,459,609

–

3,000

–

1,456,609

–

–

631,670

556,930

347,498

3,618,887

–

–

5,154,985

14,262,002

22,231,591

328,374,124

73,087,657

–

–

437,955,375

22,000

–

–

–

–

–

22,000

134,000,000

18,123,803

860,106,725

301,135,281

–

191,100

1,313,556,909

72,450

2,519,124

–

1,571,926

–

1,682,093

5,845,593

310,000

–

–

–

–

–

310,000

–

–

1,623,081

–

–

–

1,623,081

–

5,401

–

123,513

–

–

128,914
187,536

14,254

4,775

–

168,507

–

–

257,520

–

427,009

–

–

–

684,529

–

–

14,344,198

–

–

–

14,344,198

14,370

394,696

–

806,960

–

–

1,216,026

(48,816)

–

(54,954,856)

(634,927)

–

–

(55,638,599)

411,694,325

719,970,767

836,794,043

375,000

52,393,066

5,126,756,518

3,105,529,317

* Negative amounts against countries, for the most part, are due to revaluation.
** Contributions for specific managements activities.			
*** Revenue adjustments includes $34.7 million other resources revenue write-down from the United Kingdom.	

2. INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES
Asian Development Bank

25,649,720

Development Bank of Latin America

150,000

Education Cannot Wait Fund

37,425,119

End Violence Against Children

145,000

End Violence Against Children Fund

2,924,427

European Commission
Other resources

696,701,897

GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance

93,677,372

Global Financing Facility

24,127,314

Global Partnership for Education

431,467,597

International Development Research Centre (IDRC)

5,902,449

Nutrition International

8,509,494

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)

87,843,743

UNITAID

659,640

Revenue adjustments

(3,920,965)

Total

1,411,262,807

3. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Regular resources
Other resources

Other

961,076

Subtotal

961,076

Revenue Adjustments

(11,712)

Subtotal

(11,712)

Total

949,364

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

56

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2020, continued

4. INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)

2,964,856

International Labour Organization (ILO)

2,048,447

International Organization for Migration (IOM)

13,520,459

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)

212,699,228

United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations

404,337

United Nations Development Group joint programmes

99,753,336

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)

137,520,891

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)

4,477,068

United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)

1,602,256

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
Other resources

United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)

1,703,458
22,204,416

United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)

20,000

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)

24,207,611

United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS

8,656,891

United Nations The Resident Coordinator Office

111,017

United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security (UNTFHS)
World Bank Group
World Food Programme (WFP)

250,855
222,364,680
11,195,837

World Health Organization (WHO)

6,072,846

Other
Revenue adjustments
Subtotal
Other contributions

9,000
(4,440,241)
767,347,247

United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations

79,353

Revenue adjustments

2

Subtotal
Total

79,355
767,426,602

5. OTHER REVENUE*
Total

241,955,405

GRAND TOTAL
2,421,594,178

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2020

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 10 National Committees by advocacy
contribution to children, 2020
(revenue in US dollars)

COUNTRY

ADVOCACY CONTRIBUTION

Netherlands

4,753,391

Germany

4,569,587

France

3,672,191

United Kingdom

3,414,814

Spain

2,828,675

Switzerland

2,593,717

Japan

2,285,554

Australia

1,961,234

Italy

1,852,895

Sweden

1,468,317

RESPONDING TO COVID-19

58

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

For every child
Whoever she is.
Wherever he lives.
Every child deserves a childhood.
A future.
A fair chance.
That’s why UNICEF is there.
For each and every child.
Working day in and day out.
In more than 190 countries and territories.
Reaching the hardest to reach.
The furthest from help.
The most excluded.
It’s why we stay to the end.
And never give up.

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017, USA
pubdoc@unicef.org
www.unicef.org
ISBN: 978-92-806-5223-9

© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
June 2021

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

