For every child,
reimagine
UNICEF Annual Report,
2019

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017, USA
Contact: pubdoc@unicef.org
Website: www.unicef.org
Suggested citation. For Every Child, Reimagine. UNICEF Annual Report 2019.
New York: United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), 2020.
ISBN: 978-92-806-5135-5
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), June 2020

Cover photograph: © UNICEF/UN0327674/Ralaivita

Data in this report are drawn
from the most recent available
statistics from UNICEF and
other United Nations agencies,
annual reports prepared
by UNICEF country offices
and the Annual Report of
the Executive Director of
UNICEF to be presented to the
Executive Board, in June 2020.
For any corrigenda found
subsequent to printing,
please visit our website at
www.unicef.org/publications.

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

For every child, reimagine
UNICEF Annual Report, 2019

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

A UNICEF staff member playing with
a baby at the health centre of Odienné,
in the Northwest of Côte d’Ivoire.
© UNICEF/UNI303268/DEJONGH

UNICEF staff assist children and
their families at an informational
#ConLosNiñosDeVenezuela event
in Cambalache, Bolívar state, the
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

2

2

© UNICEF/UN0334533/MONTICO

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Contents
Foreword	4
Introduction	6

Goal Areas
Goal Area 1: Every child survives and thrives	

14

Goal Area 2: Every child learns	

20

Goal Area 3: Every child is protected from violence and exploitation	 24
Goal Area 4: Every child lives in a safe and clean environment	

28

Goal Area 5: Every child has an equitable chance in life	

32

Cross-cutting Priorities
Humanitarian Action	

36

Gender Equality	

40

Change Strategies
Winning support for children and young people	

44

Partnerships	46
Innovation	50

53

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

3

Financials and Stewardship 	

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Foreword

The pandemic represents a shared global struggle
against an invisible enemy. Not only are children and
young people contracting COVID-19, they are also
among its most severely impacted victims. Unless we
address the pandemic’s impacts on children, the echoes
of COVID-19 will permanently damage our shared future.
The fight against COVID-19 brings into sharp relief
the importance of everything UNICEF does as an
organization – not only to support children and young
people, but to help their communities build stronger
health, education, protection, nutrition, and water and
sanitation system for the future.
In fact, UNICEF’s global agenda for action to address
COVID-19 represents a microcosm of our organization’s
work to protect the most vulnerable and disadvantaged
children, and invest in strengthening systems and
services in the long run:
	

To keep children healthy and well
nourished;

	

To reach vulnerable children with
water, sanitation and hygiene;

	

To keep children learning;

	

To support families to cover their
needs and care for their children;

	

To protect children from violence,
exploitation and abuse, especially
girls; and

	

To protect refugee and migrant
children, and those affected by
conflict.

As the results outlined in this Annual Report clearly
demonstrate, UNICEF’s global reach across more than
190 countries and territories, along with the expertise
and experience of our staff members, has put us in a
good position to respond to this crisis.
We are deeply proud of the commitment and dedication
our staff members demonstrate each and every day, as
they carry out their vital, life-saving work.
They understand that the world is not standing still for
children – neither are we.
Last year, we reached 307 million children under age 5
with services to prevent malnutrition; 17 million out-ofschool children with education; 4 million children and
young people with skills development; 18.3 million people
with access to safe drinking water; 15.5 million with
basic sanitation services; and we provided humanitarian
assistance in 281 emergencies in 96 countries.
We are also finding new ways to involve children and
young people in our work. We need their participation
and their voices, as we work together to design and
deliver the programmes, services and support they need
as they develop, grow and prepare to inherit our world.
For over 70 years, UNICEF has supported children and
young people facing a range of barriers to their health
and well-being. From poverty and exclusion, to natural
disasters, armed conflict, famine and disease, our
organization stands with children and young people
– no matter who they are or where they live.
As we stand with them, we call on our partners around
the world to do the same.
Join our cause. Invest in children’s futures. Support our
vital, life-saving work.
Let’s continue building a better, safer, healthier and more
peaceful world. For every child.

Henrietta H. Fore
UNICEF Executive Director

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

4

UNICEF is releasing our Annual Report 2019 against
the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic.

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

UNICEF COVID-19 response, 2020

1. In Morovine village in
the north of Côte d’Ivoire,
a UNICEF staff member
talks with young children
wearing masks to protect
themselves against the
coronavirus.

1

© UNICEF/UNI328634

© UNICEF/UNI331144/Volpe

2. In Saptari District, Nepal,
a health worker attends to a
patient at a clinic installed with
UNICEF support at the Gajendra
Narayan Singh Hospital.

2

4

3. In Morovine village, Côte
d’Ivoire, children attend classes
on television at the home of the
village chief. UNICEF has been
working on a ‘School at home’
initiative that includes taping
lessons to air on national TV
and radio.

3

© UNICEF/UNI325650/Dejongh

5

© UNICEF/UNI326923/Choufany

4. In Guatemala City, UNICEF
assists in providing groceries to
parents of more than 2.4 million
pre‑primary and primary
children, allowing the children
to continue receiving the school
meals they had relied on before
COVID-19.

5. In Beirut, Lebanon, UNICEF
staff inspect medical supplies
to be delivered to health-care
frontline workers and populations
at risk. Supplies include gloves,
surgical and N95 respirator masks,
gowns and thermometers,
among other items.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

5

© UNICEF/UNI331144/Volpe

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Introduction

There were many successes to celebrate.
In more than 190 countries and territories, UNICEF and partners helped
children survive, thrive and go to school ready to learn and make the most
of their opportunities. UNICEF engaged with partners around the globe to
protect children, ensure safe environments, reduce poverty, address harmful
gender norms and fight against discrimination.
In emergency situations, children and families received mental health care and
psychosocial support, along with the basics of nutrition, education and health
care. Migrant and refugee children were provided with protective services.
And in 2019, the world celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Convention
on the Rights of the Child while at the start of 2020, we marked the 25th
anniversary of the Beijing Declaration and Platform for Action on gender
equality and the empowerment of women.
To mark the 30th anniversary of the Convention, 110 United Nations
Member States recommitted to implementing child rights in the
21st century and 24 governments made new national commitments.
Championed by the co-chairs of the Group of Friends of Children and the
SDGs: Bulgaria, Jamaica and Luxembourg, a voluntary global pledge “For
Every Child, Every Right” was launched.

Focus on the future
However, even as UNICEF looks back to 2019, our focus is on the future.
At the start of a new decade, the world is grappling with COVID-19, a global
pandemic that is taking the lives of many thousands and upending homes
and schools for children everywhere, threatening their well-being and future.
UNICEF is addressing the challenge of providing information and services
that protect children and families from the virus, while also focusing on the
hidden effects of the disease, especially for already marginalized children
– those who live daily with poverty, violence, conflict or who are refugees,
migrants or internally displaced.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

6

In 2019, UNICEF and
partners worked
side by side with
children and young
people to overcome
the obstacles that
keep far too many
children from
reaching their full
potential. Together,
we helped create new
opportunities and
placed dreams and
aspirations within
reach.

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Abdoulaye Konate, Immunization Officer at UNICEF’s field office in Kayes, Mali,
sensitizes Ramata Diallo on the importance of vaccinating her youngest child, Hachime,
11 months, who has never been vaccinated. The use of mobile vaccinators to reach
vulnerable populations living in hard-to-reach areas such as gold mine sites are among
the approaches that UNICEF and its partners have put in place to reach every child.
UNICEF and partners including Gavi are supporting the Mali Ministry of Health to bring
vaccines directly towards the most isolated and vulnerable children.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

7

© UNICEF/UN0293818/Keïta

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

This new global threat arrived just as the United Nations Secretary-General
António Guterres called for a Decade of Action in an effort to reach the
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030.
UNICEF’s response to this call to action was a heightened focus on investing
in children – the key to achieving the ambitious goals of the SDGs. To do so,
UNICEF has assessed its progress towards achieving the marks established
in the UNICEF Strategic Plan, 2018–2021 and the SDGs.

Delivering on the strategic plan
The UNICEF Strategic Plan, 2018–2021 was created shortly after the world
agreed on the SDGs. It identifies five goal areas for achieving results that can
deliver on the SDGs:
Goal Area 1

Every child survives and thrives involves thematic work in
health, nutrition, HIV and AIDS, early childhood development
and adolescent health.
Goal Area 2

Every child learns focuses on education.
Goal Area 3

Every child is protected from violence and exploitation
involves child protection services.
Goal Area 4

Every child lives in a safe and clean environment features
UNICEF’s work in water, sanitation and hygiene, and efforts on
climate, disaster risk reduction and urban settings.
Goal Area 5

Every child has an equitable chance in life is a manifestation
of UNICEF’s commitment to leave no child behind and
encompasses efforts to address poverty, gender equality
and discrimination, provide support for adolescents and
children with disabilities, and support the safe and meaningful
participation and civic engagement of children at all ages.

The strategic plan also identifies two cross-cutting areas that touch on all of UNICEF’s efforts:
humanitarian action and gender equality.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

8

In addition, UNICEF identified four organizational enablers and eight strategies for change. The change
strategies examined in this annual report are: winning support for the cause of children from decision
makers and the wider public; developing and leveraging resources and partnerships for results for
children; leveraging the power of business for children; and fostering innovation in programming
and advocacy for children.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Accelerating results
This annual report comes at a time when UNICEF hits the mid-term mark of
its Strategic Plan. Combined with the annual review, the mid-term review of
results highlighted clear progress on many child-related SDG targets. And
across the United Nations system, agencies continue to share lessons learned,
coordinate action and collaborate to accelerate results toward the SDGs.
However, the review also noted that progress on some targets must be
accelerated if the SDGs and Strategic Plan goals are to be realized. This is
particularly true in fragile contexts where the scale of needs is high and
trends in progress are of great concern.
By 2019, 74 per cent of the targets set out in the UNICEF Strategic Plan
were achieved. However, despite a strong performance by UNICEF in
many of the SDG areas, progress remained too slow in others, with 26 per
cent of the targets off-track. At the current pace, for example, SDG targets
will not be achieved for many critical issues including: immunization, health,
nutrition, HIV and AIDS and early childhood development. In addition,
progress is slow for targets relating to:
	 Access to quality education
	Birth registration and violence against children
	Safely managed water and sanitation
	Disaster risk reduction and climate-change
	Child poverty

In 2019, UNICEF provided support for:

Humanitarian assistance
in 281 emergencies in
96 countries.

Safe births for nearly 28 million
babies in health facilities.

Services for 307 million children
younger than age 5 to prevent
malnutrition.

Treatment for severe acute
malnutrition for 4.1 million
children in emergencies.

Early learning, primary and secondary education for 17 million
out-of-school children; and skills development programmes for
4 million children and young people.

Access to safe drinking water for 18.3 million more people and basic
sanitation services for 15.5 million more people.

More than 21 million birth
registrations in 47 countries.

Expanding menstrual health and
hygiene services, including direct
support to 20,495 schools
in 49 countries.

Care and interventions to
prevent child marriage for
5.7 million adolescent girls.

Cash transfer programmes
benefitting 51 million children,
including 8.5 million in emergency
settings.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

9

TOP RESULTS

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Challenges
Among the challenges to achieving the SDGs for children are the
unprecedented levels of humanitarian crises, including the global pandemic
of COVID-19, and a climate shaped by limited predictable resources.
Though UNICEF resources grew in 2019, the growth occurred in earmarked
funding. Regular resources – funding that is predictable and flexible, and
that allows UNICEF to respond quickly – declined. Regular resources, and
other flexible funding, are essential for UNICEF to accelerate results with
innovations, new partnerships, increased capacity and better data. Flexible
funding is also essential to bridge gaps and allow for quick and immediate
response in emergencies.

RIGHT: A group of boys stand outside
Shaheed Abdul Ahad Khan Karzai
Orphanage in Kandahar, Afghanistan.
© UNICEF/UNI229588/Bouvet

UNICEF expenditure, 2019
(in millions of US dollars)
BUDGET CATEGORY
Development

5,529

Programme

5,363

Development effectiveness

166

Management

392

United Nations development coordination

10

Special purpose (including capital investment)

29

Private fundraising and partnerships

222

Other

77

Total expenditure

6,259

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

10

Note: The UNICEF expenditure by budget
categories in this table is presented on a
modified cash basis.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Direct programme expenses, 2019

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

(in millions of US dollars)

BY GOAL AREA

1,149.0

Regular resources
Other resources (regular)
Other resources (emergency)

Total expenses
$5,650 million
624.5
541.8

533.2
484.7
391.8

379.1

265.5 264.1
175.4

178.3

165.4

241.1

134.0

122.0

BY REGION

Survive
and
thrive

Learning

2,152.7

1,183.4

Protection

708.0

Environment

Fair chance

1,108.9

497.1

1,154.8

Regular resources
Other resources (regular)

943.5

Other resources (emergency)

Total expenses
$5,650 million

680.1

561.7

562.1

548.2

247.4
185.5
124.4

115.1
76.1

59.2
* Programme expenses
for Djibouti are included
under sub-Saharan Africa.

29.5

57.7

51.8

64.8

31.5

Sub-Saharan
Africa*

Middle East
and North
Africa

Asia

Europe and
Central Asia

Latin America and
the Caribbean

Interregional

2,396.5

1,550.9

966.4

291.2

224.6

220.6

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

11

156.8

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

A decade of action
As the United Nations embarks on a new decade dedicated to
accelerating results for children, UNICEF will prioritize efforts to
effectively and efficiently improve children’s health, nutrition, water,
sanitation and hygiene, early childhood and adolescent development.
We will focus on making sure every child goes to school and learns, and
double down on our efforts to protect children and their environments.
As always, we will focus on the most vulnerable children, providing
social protection interventions and reaching out with efforts to end
discrimination based on gender and ability.
Some priorities will include:
	Acceleration on core priority areas
	Stronger links between development and humanitarian
programming
	Generation Unlimited, a partnership focused on modern education
and job skills
	Community-based primary health care
	Mental health
	Climate change
	Intellectual leadership
	Innovations
	Gender equality

And as the child rights crisis of the global COVID-19 pandemic continues,
UNICEF is leading the charge to respond, recover and reimagine a world
fit for every child, calling for action to:
	Keep children healthy and well-nourished
	Reach vulnerable children with water, sanitation and hygiene
	Keep children learning
	Support families to cover their needs and care for their children
	Protect children from violence, exploitation and abuse
	Protect refugee and migrant children, and those affected by
conflict

With a staff of thousands, UNICEF remains committed to its core values
of care, respect, integrity, trust and accountability. As we embrace a new
decade, we recalibrate and rededicate ourselves to achieving the SDGs and
the UNICEF aspirations for children while meeting the non-stop challenges
children face in a dynamic world.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

12

Indeed, the world does not stand still for children. And neither do we.

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Rose Tupemuni sits with her children outside her family’s new home in Katanga health
area (Tshikapa Health Zone) in Tshikapa, Kasai Province, Democratic Republic of the
Congo, on 6 November 2019. Earlier in the year, the family was forced to flee their home
in a remote village because of fighting. Rose was unable to have her three-year-old
daughter vaccinated against the measles and the child succumbed to the disease. Now
that the family has settled in the Katanga health area (Tshikapa Health Zone) in Tshikapa,
Rose has made vaccinations a priority. “Now all of my children are protected,” she says.
“They’ve all been vaccinated against measles.”

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

13

© UNICEF/UNI229157/Nybo

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Goal Area 1
Every child survives
and thrives

Protecting that right requires that every child has access to
health care and food. It involves immunization and protection
from HIV and AIDS, and from preventable diseases. And it
means that homes, families and communities have access to
early childhood development opportunities.
UNICEF addresses needs in quality health care, adequate
nutrition, immunization, HIV prevention, adolescent health
and early childhood development – all with the awareness
that these services are interconnected, and that a holistic
and multisectoral approach is essential.
In 2019, UNICEF helped children survive and thrive in
152 countries at a cost of US$2.15 billion. The work included
activities in 82 countries that required emergency assistance
at a cost of US$0.95 billion.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

14

Every child has
the right to
survive and thrive.

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

A mother holds her newborn baby as they wait for the baby to receive its vaccinations
at Gambool Health Centre in Garowe, Puntland, Somalia. UNICEF supports primary
health care in Somalia and partners with the Government of Somalia to strengthen
national capacity in the provision of vaccinations and preventive and curative services for
pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria and other diseases. UNICEF is working to scale up the
coverage and quality of maternal health services and essential newborn care services in
the country.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

15

© UNICEF/UNI218212/Hinds

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Health
UNICEF’s maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health programme
focuses on strengthening integrated primary health care, ending
preventable deaths through a package of essential maternal and newborn
health services, preventing and treating childhood diseases, and ensuring
that every child is fully immunized in terms of child and adolescent health
and well-being. Health programmes are increasingly addressing child
development, child disability, non-communicable diseases, mental health
services, HPV vaccination, pregnancy prevention, environmental pollution
and adolescent maternal care.
In 2019, there were 27.4 million live births in health facilities supported
through UNICEF programmes in countries with high maternal and neonatal
mortality. Chad and the Democratic Republic of the Congo eliminated
maternal and neonatal tetanus, while UNICEF and partners supported the
vaccination of 65.7 million children with three doses of DTP/pentavalent
vaccine in 64 priority countries, and measles vaccination of 41.3 million
children in humanitarian settings. Nigeria remained polio-free for a
third year, paving the way for the potential certification of Africa as
polio-free in 2020.
In 25 countries with high pneumonia prevalence, 9.4 million children
with suspected pneumonia received antibiotics through UNICEFsupported programmes. UNICEF backed the skills enhancement of
35,840 community health workers in integrated community case
management. The distribution of insecticide-treated nets was facilitated in
humanitarian situations, reaching 1.69 million people.
By 2019, 67 countries had inclusive, multi-sectoral and gender-responsive
national plans for adolescent health, and UNICEF supported their
implementation in 31 countries. Nearly 1 million adolescent girls received
the full schedule of HPV vaccination in five countries where UNICEF had
supported the vaccine’s introduction. In 2019, 79 countries implemented
school health programming, leveraging a primary platform for integrated
delivery of interventions for adolescent health, including mental health.

The top resource partners to health in 2019 were the World
Bank Group; Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; U.S. Fund for UNICEF;
Germany; and the United Kingdom.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

16

UNICEF addresses
needs in quality
health care,
adequate nutrition,
immunization,
HIV prevention,
adolescent health
and early childhood
development.

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Nutrition
In 2019, UNICEF provided support to nutrition programmes in more than
120 countries, addressing what The State of the World’s Children 2019:
Children, food and nutrition – Growing well in a changing world called the
triple burden of malnutrition – undernutrition, micronutrient deficiencies
and overweight.
Programmes supported by UNICEF in 2019:
	Early childhood: Reached 307 million under-fives with services
to prevent stunting and other forms of malnutrition in early
childhood.
	Adolescence: Helped 60 million boys and girls with services to
prevent anaemia and other forms of malnutrition in adolescence.
	Severe malnutrition: Treated 4.9 million children for severe
wasting and other forms of severe malnutrition.

As UNICEF continues to support nutrition programmes, the focus will
be on prevention first and if that fails, treatment. This approach is the
premise of UNICEF’s partnership on nutrition with the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation. In 15 high-burden countries, the partnership delivers food,
health and social protection programmes in the first 1,000 days of life for
children and their mothers.
ABOVE: A child in preprimary class at
Tahouak Primary School, Ta Oi District,
in Saravane Province, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, eats nutritious
food during her lunch break.
© UNICEF/UN0311087/Verweij

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

17

The top resource partners to nutrition in 2019 were the
World Bank Group, Germany, European Commission, United
Kingdom and the Netherlands.

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

© UNICEF/UNI211887/Schermbrucker

HIV and AIDS
In 2019, 13.5 million girls and 9 million boys were tested for HIV and
received the results. However, progress towards ending AIDS by 2030 is
insufficient. Efforts to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV resulted
in 4 per cent more pregnant women living with HIV accessing antiretroviral
treatment (ART) in the past four years. Some countries are making progress
in the elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV. Botswana, Malawi,
Namibia, Uganda and Zimbabwe are reaching 95 per cent of pregnant
women living with HIV with ART and are on the pathway to elimination,
and Sri Lanka joined the list of 13 countries that have been validated for
elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV by WHO.
Globally there were an estimated 310,000 new HIV infections among
adolescent girls and young women at the end of 2018, three times the global
target. Regionally, while Eastern and Southern Africa saw improvements in
the number of new infections among adolescents and young adults there
continues to be concerning HIV epidemics among this population worldwide.

The top resource partners to HIV andAIDS in 2019 were the
Islamic Development Bank, UNAIDS, Korean Committee
for UNICEF, The Global Fund, and the UNFPA‑managed
UN Partnerships and Joint Programmes.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

18

ABOVE: Kansiime Ruth ensures that
both of her children, Lighton (1 year,
pictured here) and Joanita, 4, take their
daily pediatric HIV medicine. UNICEF is
working in partnership with the Ministry
of Health in Uganda to improve early
diagnosis and initiation of treatment for
HIV-positive infants, which is critical for
saving lives.

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 1: EVERY CHILD SURVIVES AND THRIVES

Early childhood development
UNICEF’s efforts to provide every child with the best start in life are
multisectoral, involving nutrition, health, education, social protection and
support for parents. In 2019:
	115 countries implemented multisectoral early childhood
development (ECD) programmes, of which 45 countries have
government ownership and costed action plans for scale-up.
	83 countries reported having a national ECD policy or action plan.
	 UNICEF provided 615,049 children younger than 5 in humanitarian
situations with ECD interventions, reaching 76 per cent of the target.

ch

r iv

er
Ev

y

Goal Ar
ea
1

es

C EF
NI
U

Accelerating results
As UNICEF works to accelerate results, the goal is to reach children and
families at the greatest risk of being left behind: children in poor households,
in sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia, and in fragile and conflict-affected
settings. Accelerating child survival growth and development outcomes
means strengthening humanitarian and gender analysis, leveraging
community engagement and social data analytics and working across
sectors to address the social and financial barriers that stand in the way.

ild

survives an

dt

h

TOP RESULTS
27.4 million babies were
delivered in health facilities
with support from UNICEF.

41.3 million children in emergency
situations were vaccinated
against measles.

9.4 million children suspected to
have pneumonia were treated
by programmes supported by
UNICEF.

More than 249 million children
received two doses of vitamin
A supplementation in key
countries.

More than 4.9 million children
received treatment for severe
acute malnutrition.

13.5 million girls and 9 million
boys were tested for HIV and
received the results.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

19

UNICEF joined 11 multilateral agencies to launch a joint plan to better support countries over the next 10 years,
collectively contributing nearly one third of all development assistance to health.

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Goal Area 2		
Every child learns

In 2019, war, disaster, disease and the effects of climate
change were barriers to children’s right to education. In
addition, vulnerabilities including poverty, gender norms and
disability continue to put education out of reach for far too
many children. And at the start of 2020, children in many
corners of the world were forced from school by COVID-19.
In 2019, funding shortfalls, escalating insecurity and targeted
attacks resulted in UNICEF reaching only 60 per cent of its
ambitious target to provide education to 12.3 million children
most at risk in emergency contexts.

The top resource partners to this Goal Area in 2019 were
Germany, European Commission, Norway, the Global
Partnership for Education and the Netherlands.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

20

Around the world,
children and
young people face
disruptions to
their right to go to
school and learn.

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Students at the playground of Turgani High School in Faizabad, the largest city
of Badakhshan, a northern province of Afghanistan.
In Afghanistan 3.7 million children are out of school and only 54 per cent of
enrolled children complete primary school. Working at the national, provincial and
community levels with the Ministry of Education and other partners, UNICEF
focuses on the most vulnerable people in disadvantaged areas, particularly
girls, to combat exclusion due to poverty, discrimination and conflict.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

21

© UNICEF/UN0339383/Dejongh

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

Successes
Despite the challenges, UNICEF education efforts achieved notable
successes in 2019, including:

	37 per cent of countries supported by UNICEF had systems in
place to provide equitable access to learning opportunities for
children, up from 29 per cent in 2018.
	49 per cent of countries that received UNICEF support had plans
to prevent gender-based violence in schools, compared with
38 per cent in 2018.
	48 per cent of countries had effective systems to improve
learning outcomes, compared with 35 per cent in 2018.
	23 per cent of countries supported by UNICEF had systems to
ensure that boys and girls were equally learning important skills,
up from 16 per cent in 2018.
	102 countries supported the Safe Schools Declaration, which calls
on UNICEF, partners, governments and armed groups to protect
education from attack and provides guidelines for implementation.

Still, more work needs to be done. If results are not accelerated,
420 million of the 1.4 billion school-aged children in low- and middle-income
countries will not have learned basic skills by 2030 and 825 million will not
acquire basic secondary-level skills.
With Every Child Learns: UNICEF Education Strategy, 2019–2030, adopted
in 2019, UNICEF put learning outcomes at the heart of its efforts to meet
the SDGs and its goals for children. The strategy calls on UNICEF to
ensure that five-year-olds are ready for school, 10-year-olds are prepared to
succeed in school and 18-year-olds are prepared for life and work.
The strategy emphasizes attendance and retention, learning methods and
assessments and accountability. It prioritizes three approaches: system
strengthening, use of data and evidence, and innovations that can be
scaled up and sustained.
In recent years, it has become clear that the challenges to children’s right
to education are changing; disruption caused by crises are becoming an
ever‑greater threat. The good news is that, for UNICEF, the lessons have
emerged and, with a new strategy, the path forward is clear.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

22

In 2019, UNICEF
responded to these
challenges by
providing support
to education in
143 countries at
the expense of
US$1.18 billion.
UNICEF supported
education
programmes in
emergency contexts
in 82 countries
at a cost of
US$0.69 billion.

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 2: EVERY CHILD LEARNS

RIGHT: A South Sudanese refugee pupil
looks out through a classroom window at
Tika Primary School in the Arua district of
Uganda.
Tika Primary School, located in Rigbo
sub‑county, has been supported by
UNICEF through Trailblazer Mentoring
Foundation since April 2018. The
school houses both formal primary
education and an Accelerated Education
Programme (AEP) for children from the
host and refugee communities. A total of
3,632 children (1,750 girls, 1,882 boys) are
enrolled in the primary school.
© UNICEF/UNI313340/Adriko

C EF
NI
U

Ev

ery

Goal Ar
ea
2

child lear

ns

TOP RESULTS
More than 17 million out-of-school children participated in early learning,
primary or secondary education programmes.

UNICEF and the World Bank announced a $1 billion partnership to invest in
education and skills training for youth in support of Generation Unlimited,
which seeks to prepare the world’s youth for the future of work.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

23

More than 4 million took part in
skills development programmes
for learning, empowerment,
employment or active citizenship.

More than 12 million children
received education or early
learning materials.

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

Goal Area 3		
Every child is protected
from violence and
exploitation

Indeed, 2019 concluded a deadly decade of more
than 170,000 verified grave violations committed
against children in conflict situations.
In an effort to protect children against violence
and exploitation, UNICEF worked in more
than 150 countries at an expense of nearly
US$708 million.

The top resource partners to this Goal Area in 2019 were
Germany, the Netherlands, the European Commission,
Sweden and the United Nations Joint Programme.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

24

Despite the
expressed
commitment to
protect children
against violence
as reflected in
the Sustainable
Development Goals,
children continue
to face violations in
their homes, schools,
communities
and online.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

Matthew, 17, was abducted from his home in South Sudan by an armed
group and held for two years. He was formally released with support from
UNICEF and received a reintegration package and training in agriculture.
He was also assigned a case worker, who provided psychosocial support
and guidance as Matthew transitioned into normal life again. In 2019,
across 19 countries, UNICEF provided care and services to more than
14,400 children who had left armed forces or groups over the course of
several years.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

25

© UNICEF/UN0272647/Holt

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

Successes
In 2019, the number of birth registrations supported by UNICEF increased
35 per cent compared with 2018. UNICEF is now supporting 13 priority
countries – who account for slightly more than 1 in 3 of all unregistered
children worldwide – to accelerate action.
UNICEF worked to end violence against children in and around schools
through the launch of a powerful global coalition, the Safe to Learn
programme. UNICEF also assisted 24 countries in implementing the
WeProtect National Model Response to tackle online child sexual exploitation
and abuse. Overall, UNICEF reached 17 per cent more children who
experienced violence with health, social work or justice and law enforcement
services in 2019 compared to 2018.
In 2019, UNICEF also reached millions of children in humanitarian situations
in 74 countries with protection services. More than 4.37 million girls and
boys in 22 countries affected by landmines and other explosive weapons
were reached in 2019 with relevant prevention and survivor assistance
interventions. And efforts to protect children from exploitation and abuse in
emergencies increased to 32 countries in 2019 from 16 countries in 2018.
Overall, more than 8.9 million adults and children had access to a channel
to report sexual exploitation and abuse in 2019, a 27 per cent increase
compared to 2018.
UNICEF supported 128 countries in 2019 to implement a range of
interventions to improve children’s access to justice. UNICEF’s work to
champion the rights of children without parental care, including children
with disabilities, was boosted through a landmark United Nations General
Assembly Resolution, which focused on preventing family separation and
ending institutionalization of children.
In addition, more than 158,000 girls and women received prevention
and protection services against female genital mutilation. And UNICEF’s
contribution provided more than 5.7 million adolescent girls with prevention
and care interventions to thwart child marriage.

Looking forward
Though UNICEF child protection efforts reached many millions of children,
there is much more to do.
To speed up the rate of progress, UNICEF will work to strengthen the
systems that prevent and respond to violence against children and ensure
children’s access to justice. UNICEF will also emphasize behavioural change
programmes and measurement and community engagement as a means
to transform harmful practices and address social and gender norms that
contribute to many forms of violence against children.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

26

UNICEF’s efforts
to protect children
started with
initiatives to
encourage birth
registration, one of
the first essential
tools for protecting
children’s rights
and safety.

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 3: EVERY CHILD IS PROTECTED
FROM VIOLENCE AND EXPLOITATION

RIGHT: 17-year-old Rima Bera is a young
activist, committed to preventing child
marriages in her community in Namgarh,
Tarakeshwar, Hoogly, West Bengal, India.
© UNICEF/UN0331595/Das

Goal Ar
ea
3

Every child
p
is

an
de
xplo
itation

C EF
NI
U

ro
tec
e
nc
ted
from viole

TOP RESULTS
3.7 million children in
humanitarian situations received
community‑based mental health
care and psychosocial support.

3.3 million women, girls and boys received genderbased violence risk mitigation, prevention or
response interventions in humanitarian situations
including mental health care, psychosocial support and
child‑friendly spaces.

1.7 million migrant, refugee
and internally displaced
children were provided
protective services in
76 countries.

UNICEF and the European Union launched the
#RealChallenge TikTok campaign focusing on child
labour, gender equality, children separated from families
and bullying, with 300 million views, 51,000 pieces of
generated content and 1.2 million shares in 41 countries.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

27

More than 21 million children
were registered at birth in
47 countries.

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Goal Area 4		
Every child lives in
a safe and clean
environment

In response, UNICEF focused on five key areas: water,
sanitation and hygiene, disaster risk reduction, urban
settings and environmental sustainability. In 2019, UNICEF
undertook efforts to ensure a safe and clean environment for
children in 145 countries at an expense of US$1.12 billion;
in 84 countries, the work was part of emergency responses
totalling US $0.68 billion.

The top resource partners to water, sanitation and hygiene
programmes in 2019 were Germany, the United Kingdom,
the European Commission, the Netherlands and Sweden,
while the top resource partners to UNICEF’s Safe and Clean
Environment programmes in 2019 were the Netherlands,
Germany, the UNDP‑managed UN Partnerships and Joint
Programmes, Sweden and Japan.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

28

In 2019, children’s
right to a safe and
clean environment
faced threats caused
by often protracted
emergencies,
conflict and extreme
weather events
– many related to
climate change.

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

School children drink water from a water tap that was installed
by UNICEF at the Topa Primary School in Mendi, Southern
Highlands Province of Papua New Guinea. After massive
earthquakes in 2018 damaged the school and destroyed nearby
communities, UNICEF in 2019 provided an integrated package
of services to the school and surrounding communities including
water, sanitation and hygiene, as well as services in health,
nutrition, education and child protection.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

29

© UNICEF/UN0293128/Holt

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Significant progress was made in 2019:
millions more children and families gained
access to safe water and sanitation; more
countries focused on children in their plans to
manage the risks of climate‑related disasters
and build resilience; and governments
concentrated on the specific disadvantages
faced by children in urban settings.

39.1 million people
in 64 countries with
access to water

9.3 million people
in 50 countries with
sanitation services

1 million girls
and women with
menstrual health and
hygiene services
and supplies.

With the onset of COVID-19 at the end of 2019, UNICEF responded
with the procurement of necessary medical supplies, a worldwide
handwashing campaign, efforts to supply soap and support to
health facilities.

Water
In addition to providing direct support for access to water, UNICEF also
continued to build local capacity to innovate and improve services. In
the Sudan, for example, UNICEF encouraged a new approach to tapping
ground-level rainwater catchment basins. And in 27 countries, UNICEF
commissioned independent checks to test water systems for sustainability,
the results of which are being used to improve programmes.
The number of countries where UNICEF backs community-based
handwashing promotion increased, from 71 countries in 2018 to
90 countries in 2019. UNICEF also reached 2.4 million children in
8,026 schools in 2019 to ensure the availability of basic water, sanitation and
handwashing facilities.

Sanitation
The UNICEF Game Plan to End Open Defecation continued its efforts in
26 high-burden countries in 2019. Direct support from UNICEF helped
22,267 communities gain the status of being free of open defecation. In
Nigeria, for example, with UNICEF assistance, 4,781 communities reached
that milestone.
Efforts to improve sanitation also included guidance on market-based
programmes and support to entrepreneurs in the sanitation field. In
Bangladesh, for example, 165,000 households acquired improved
toilets through local entrepreneurs, and in Ghana, a partnership
with the National Board for Small Scale Industries is rapidly building
private‑sector capacity.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

30

In emergency contexts,
UNICEF reached:

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 4: EVERY CHILD LIVES IN A
SAFE AND CLEAN ENVIRONMENT

Resilience and risk reduction, urban programming and
environmental sustainability
Increasingly, UNICEF is focusing on the link between humanitarian response
and longer-term sustainable development. This effort includes strengthening
resilience to climate change and disasters as well as promoting peaceful and
inclusive societies.
In 2019, UNICEF issued a procedure that requires risk-informed programming
for new UNICEF country initiatives, accounting for the fact that crises
are becoming more frequent and complex, and are lasting longer and
affecting more children. In 2019, 41 per cent of UNICEF country offices met
benchmarks on implementing risk-informed programming.
UNICEF supports programmes in urban settings in more than 80 countries
aimed at improving intra-urban data, making national and city development
programmes child-responsive, and bringing in a child focus to infrastructure
and spatial planning in cities.

l
ld
chi
Every

iv
es
in

Goal Ar
ea
4

nv
iro
nme
nt

C EF
NI
U

UNICEF also expanded its programming on climate change and 56 country
offices engaged in child-inclusive programmes that fostered climate
resilience in 2019, compared with 27 in 2018. These activities included
support to combat air pollution, make social services more climate resilient
and encourage sustainable energy, especially in health-care facilities, schools,
and water and sanitation services.

an
a safe and cle

e

TOP RESULTS
15.5 million more people gained
access to basic sanitation
services.

57 countries had local or national
child-sensitive management
plans to address disasters,
conflict, public health and other
emergencies.

58 countries kept data on
disparities among children in
urban settings.

56 countries implemented child-inclusive programmes for climate change
resistance and low-carbon development.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

31

18.3 million more people
gained access to safe drinking
water.

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Goal Area 5		
Every child has an
equitable chance in life

In 2019, UNICEF continued working to safeguard the
rights enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of the
Child by reducing child poverty and ending discrimination.
To achieve this goal, UNICEF worked in 154 countries
and invested over US$497.11 million to provide
children with an equitable chance in life. In emergency
contexts, UNICEF worked to equitably reach children in
60 countries at a cost of US$0.27 billion.

The top resource partners to this Goal Area in 2019 were
the World Bank Group, the European Commission, Sweden,
United Nations Joint Programmes and the United States.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

32

In 2019, the world
marked the 30th
Anniversary of the
Convention on the
Rights of the Child
by celebrating
progress achieved
in past decades.
Though there was
much to celebrate,
much more must be
done to make sure
every child has an
equitable chance
to survive, thrive
and build a future.

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Arina, age 13, holds her little brother Daniil. Together with their mother, stepfather
and two sisters, they share a small two-room house in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. Over
the last decade, Kazakhstan has made considerable progress in reducing poverty
levels. However, many vulnerable families are still falling through the cracks. Children
are particularly vulnerable. In 2019, UNICEF initiated a ‘cash plus’ model, where cash
transfer programming is linked with appropriate information and knowledge, working
jointly with the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection to enhance the impact of
cash transfer on child poverty and other child-related outcomes.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

33

© UNICEF/UNI289387/Nur

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Child poverty and public finance for children
In 2019, UNICEF continued to work with governments to monitor child
poverty and respond with social and economic policies that protect children
from the multiple effects of poverty. In 65 countries, routine measurement
and reporting on multidimensional child poverty were established and
73 countries have routine measurement and reporting on monetary child
poverty. In 28 countries, child poverty is addressed by specific policies and
programmes.
These child poverty measurements helped direct focus and resources into
areas and sectors with the highest number of deprived children (as in Ghana,
Panama and Zambia) and influenced national poverty reduction efforts,
including increasing social protection coverage for children (as in Malaysia,
where the flagship social protection scheme increased benefits to children).
In Kazakhstan, for example, UNICEF worked with the government to expand
a social assistance programme to reach more than 1.5 million children, up
from around 363,000 previously.

Social protection
UNICEF-supported cash transfer programmes reached more than 51 million
children in 2019, including more than 8 million in humanitarian settings. In
Thailand, UNICEF backed the expansion of the Child Support Grant, now
covering more than 1 million children and expected to cover an additional
0.8 million, or half the population under age 6, by 2024. This expansion is a
strategic investment that ensures the well-being of vulnerable children and
families. As of 2019, 47 countries had strong or moderately strong social
protection systems and nine had national cash transfer programmes capable
of responding in a crisis.
Gender equality
In 2019, UNICEF addressed harmful, discriminatory gender norms, roles and
practices with targeted support from the Global Thematic Fund for Gender
Equality, which receives contributions from the Governments of Canada and
Luxembourg. In addition, programming was underway in 120 countries that
focused on: gender-responsive school curricula, positive parenting for fathers,
gender equality training for frontline workers and multisectoral interventions
to address gender norms linked to harmful practices.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

34

UNICEF efforts
to make sure
every child has an
equitable chance in
life focused on five
areas: child poverty
and public finance
for children, social
protection, gender
equality, children
with disabilities,
and adolescents.

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

GOAL AREA 5: EVERY CHILD HAS AN
EQUITABLE CHANCE IN LIFE

Adolescents
Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child enshrines
participation as a fundamental human right. Participation is about being
informed, involved and having an influence on decisions and matters that
affect one’s life – in private and public spheres.
The over 4 million adolescents involved with civic engagement in 2019
came from 113 countries, 2.6 million of them were in India. Of the 4 million,
440,000 were adolescents from 24 countries impacted by conflict or
disaster. Thirty-four countries reported the establishment of 41 ‘appropriate’
policies – 30 multi-sectoral and 11 sectoral policies – that support the
development of adolescents. Additionally, 31 per cent of UNICEF country
offices routinely engaged adolescents in the creation and evaluation of
programming – and at least half were girls from marginalized backgrounds.

C EF
NI
U

Goal Ar
ea
5

l

ha

nc

hi

ei

yc

n lif
e

Ever

d

Children with disabilities
In 2019, UNICEF reached 1.7 million children with disabilities, across
142 countries through disability inclusive development and humanitarian
programmes. In emergency contexts, 36 per cent of UNICEF country
offices systematically included children with disabilities in their response
efforts such as the construction of 48 disability-accessible classrooms in two
Kenyan refugee camps and accessible temporary learning spaces for nearly
1,400 children and adolescents with disabilities in Indonesia. Globally, over
138,000 children with disabilities were provided with assistive devices and
products. This includes 13,722 children with disabilities provided with hearing
aids, walking sticks, wheelchairs and braille equipment, and 124,287 children
with disabilities reached with emergency kits such as the School-in-a-Box and
recreation kits containing adapted products to engage children with disabilities.

s an

equitable

ch

a

TOP RESULTS
More than 51 million children
benefited from cash transfer
programmes supported by
UNICEF, including over 8 million in
emergency settings.

4 million adolescents
were involved in civic
engagement initiatives
supported by UNICEF.

1.7 million children with
disabilities received
UNICEF support.

UNICEF and the Kingdom of the Netherlands signed a partnership,
PROSPECTS, to provide education and child protection for children
on the move in eight countries, together with the World Bank and the
International Finance Corporation, UNHCR and ILO.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

35

97 countries routinely
measured and reported on
child poverty (monetary and/or
multidimensional).

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

Cross-cutting priority:

Humanitarian Action

As many nearby schools have closed – educational
casualties of war – Al-Nasser bustles with activity. And in
2019, Al-Nasser even added a new offering for students: a
computer lab with 11 laptops and access to a wide world of
information.
The computer lab “means Yemenis can become part of the
international community,” said Abdul Rahman Al Sharjabi,
an Education Officer with UNICEF. “They might look for a
field of study that will help this country.”
In Yemen, UNICEF and partners have collaborated with
the Yemen Ministry of Education to pay teacher salaries,
rehabilitate schools, provide water and sanitation facilities,
and improve the quality of education. By bolstering
education in times of crisis, UNICEF and partners are
addressing immediate humanitarian needs while laying the
foundation for achieving longer-term development goals.

The top resource partners for such assistance in 2019 were
the United States, UNOCHA, the United Kingdom, the
European Commission and Germany.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

36

At the Al-Nasser
school in Beit
Boos, a suburb on
the outskirts of
Yemen’s capital,
Sana’a, more than
1,600 children
attend classes
in two shifts.

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

A student at the Al-Nasser school in Yemen learns in a new computer lab.
Five years of armed conflict have imposed multiple dangers on children
including severe acute malnutrition, poor sanitation, displacement, lack of
safe water and exposure to preventable diseases. But children’s education
and futures are also at risk. In 2019, efforts to bolster the education system
included initiatives that afforded 253,406 children access to education and
provided basic education materials for 676,200 students.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

37

© UNICEF Yemen/Fuad

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

Indeed, in 2019, UNICEF and partners continued to emphasize the importance
of connecting humanitarian, development and peace initiatives. This effort
requires partnerships that build sustainable and resilient institutions in health
care, education, child protection, and water and sanitation. But it also means
improving the coordination and response to humanitarian needs.
And the need is great.
Around the world, 1 in 45 people (nearly 168 million) required urgent
humanitarian assistance in 2019. And 149 million children lived in
high‑intensity conflict zones.
In 2019, UNICEF responded by providing assistance in 281 humanitarian
situations in 96 countries.

UNICEF worked with more than 40 civil
society organizations to reach over
233,000 children in South Sudan with
treatment for severe acute malnutrition.

For example,
in 2019:

In Bangladesh, UNICEF and partners
reached 274,000 children with access
to education in refugee camps and host
committees.

TOP RESULTS

Reached 39.1 million people
with access to safe water.

Secured measles vaccinations
for 43.1 million children aged
6 months to 15 years.

Provided 7.4 million
children with education in
emergencies.

Reached 4.1 million children with
treatment for severe acute
malnutrition.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

38

As part of a multisectoral response to
the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, UNICEF reached
169,784 children with mental health
care and psychosocial support and about
33 million people in at‑ risk populations with
communication for development activities.  

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

Health workers stand outside a tent used for cholera treatment at the
Macurungo Centre in Beira, Mozambique. Mozambique was affected by two
category four cyclones in 2019, which led to severe flooding in the northern
region and a subsequent cholera outbreak.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

39

© UNICEF/UN0321069/De Wet

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

GENDER EQUALITY

Cross-cutting priority:

Gender Equality

At 11, Pascaline left school because her family could not
afford the fees. So she took to football, sharpening her skills
by playing with the boys in the Lacouroussou neighbourhood
of Niamey, in Niger, where she lives in a one-room house
with a tin roof that rattles with every gust of wind.
The boys laughed at her. But she didn’t care.
“Whoever says that football is only for boys, well, my friends
and I are proving them wrong,” said Pascaline, now 13.
Pascaline’s skill on the football pitch caught the eye of a
scout for Atcha Academie, a school that combines football
with a second chance at education. Pascaline studied hard
for the entrance exam and earned admission.

The top partners to gender equality in 2019 were the
European Commission, UNDP, the Republic of Korea,
Canada and UNFPA.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

40

For Pascaline,
football is more
than a just a game.
It is a path to a
better future.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

GENDER EQUALITY

Pascaline, 13, has a second chance at education thanks to football, hard work
and enrollment in the Atcha Academie in Niger, a school that incorporates
football as part of an effort to empower girls to pursue their education and
succeed in life.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

41

© UNICEF/UNI211140/Haro

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

GENDER EQUALITY

The UNICEF
Gender Action
Plan, 2018–2021
focuses on
addressing gender
in all sectors that
affect children’s
lives: health,
nutrition, education,
protection,
environment and
poverty

With the highest rate of child marriage in the world, and an estimated
2.5 million children out of school, Niger presents challenges for girls as they
prepare for their futures.
These challenges are mirrored in countries around the world.
Despite decreases in child marriage globally, millions of girls remain at risk.
In addition, nearly one in four girls aged 15–19 years is not employed, in
education or training. In comparison, the proportion for boys the same age
is 1 in 10. And though four out of five girls globally complete primary school,
only two out of five complete upper secondary school.
The UNICEF Gender Action Plan, 2018–2021 targets five priority issues
for adolescent girls: gender-responsive adolescent health, girls’ secondary
education, child marriage and early unions, gender-based violence in
emergencies, and menstrual health and hygiene.
Football tournaments like the one at the Atcha Academie are an example of
how UNICEF and partners address multiple challenges that girls face as they
build futures for themselves. In addition to the football programme, the Atcha
Academie provides children with primary and secondary education, academic
and sports equipment and food.
“They gave me a bike, school materials and a football kit to wear for training
sessions,” Pascaline said. “My life took a turn I didn’t expect.”
Pascaline’s teacher, Garba, says the school retains students and keeps them
motivated. Garba understands that football may be the enticement. But it works.
“My students come to all my classes with their homework completed,” she said.

Programmes supported by UNICEF
reached 5.7 million adolescent girls
with care and interventions to
prevent child marriage.

Programmes that address harmful
gender norms were underway in
120 countries, focused on school
curricula; parenting practices;
training for frontline workers;
and child marriage.

UNICEF began implementing the European Union-United Nations Spotlight
Initiative, the world’s largest targeted effort to eliminate violence against
women and girls, in 13 countries in Africa and Latin America, mobilizing
US$36 million for 2019–2020. .

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

42

TOP RESULTS

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

CROSS-CUTTING PRIORITY:

GENDER EQUALITY

LEFT: Girls and women from
communities in Egypt where
Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) is
most prevalent being trained to be
community advocates against FGM as
part of the project “Safer Communities
for Children” currently implemented
by UNICEF partner NGO ACDA (Asyut
Child and Development Association)
within the framework of USAID’s
Empowering Women and Girls
programme and the UNFPA-UNICEF
Joint Global FGM Programme.
© UNICEF/UNI287340/Mostafa

LEFT: Ayak, 17, talks with her
neighbour in Bor, South Sudan. The
mother of a one-year-old baby, Ayak
was forced to marry an elder man
when she was 15. She suffered serious
medical complications during childbirth,
and after the delivery she returned
to her parents’ house and asked to
divorce her husband. Now Ayak would
like to rejoin school and improve her
future expectations. UNICEF estimates
50 per cent of all girls are married
before they are 18 in South Sudan.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

43

© UNICEF/UNI220179/Gonzalez Farran

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: WINNING SUPPORT
FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Change Strategy: 		
Winning support for
children and young people
In 2019, UNICEF
launched an
organizationwide initiative to
bolster advocacy
capacity while
continuing to
deliver integrated
campaign efforts
with:

UNICEF’s ability to deliver results depends on winning support for children
and young people from decision makers and the wider public. In 2019,
UNICEF used its communication and advocacy prowess to reach, engage
and drive change – to engage individuals and become the leading voice, the
leading advocate and the leading brand for children and young people.
In 2019, UNICEF reached a record number of individuals with compelling
content shared across multiple channels. A ‘donate’ button on UNICEF’s
global web channel allowed digital engagement to play a critical role in
resource mobilization. And UNICEF’s new parenting portal reached more
than 1.5 million visitors in 2019.
UNICEF also generated over 125,000 online and over 6,500 pieces in top
tier media outlets covering humanitarian issues, campaigns and regular
development issues.

#ChildrenUprooted
on refugee, migrant and
internally displaced children
#EarlyMomentsMatter
on early childhood development

#ChildrenUnderAttack
on UNICEF’s humanitarian
response in emergencies
including conflict
#ENDViolence
on child protection and ending
violence against children

TOP RESULTS
Child-focused policy
changes occurred in
136 countries.

UNICEF’s base of supporters grew to 96 million,
with more than 81 million digital supporters,
1.2 million volunteers and 8.2 million donors.

The 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child
was marked with the participation of 181 countries and governments, civil
society organizations, UNICEF Goodwill Ambassadors, the private sector
and young people.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

44

#EveryChildALIVE
on child survival

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: WINNING SUPPORT
FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

In 2019, a makeshift graveyard of 3,758 backpacks representing the number
of children who died because of conflict in the previous year was installed at
the United Nations Headquarters in New York and won the attention of world
leaders, including the United Nations Secretary-General. It reached more than
400 media outlets and inspired more than 300,000 engagements on social
media, attracting an audience of up to 1.1 billion. The installation won the
People’s Voice Award and Best Cause Related Campaign at the 2020 Webby
awards.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

45

© UNICEF/UN0343639/McIlwaine

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

Change Strategy: 		
Partnerships

In addition to providing foundational funding resources, public and private sector
partners are critical to UNICEF’s efforts to innovate, break down market barriers,
explore new areas of growth and advocate for the rights of every child, playing a
key role in influencing policy to leverage resources for children beyond UNICEF.
Despite the many partnership achievements in 2019, challenges remain for Regular
resources funding to allow UNICEF the flexibility to respond quickly, innovate,
bridge gaps in humanitarian emergencies, and work towards accelerated results.

PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS
UNICEF’s 137 government partners, along with intergovernmental
organizations and inter-organizational arrangements, contributed the bulk of the
resources funding UNICEF’s work.The three largest contributors in 2019 were
the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany.
	The Government of the United States provided US$743 million in overall
funding and was the largest contributor to flexible Regular resources.
	 The United Kingdom provided US$494 million in critical support for
programmes, especially in emergencies, and signed a multi-year
agreement that allows for flexible and reliable action for children in need.
	Germany contributed US$464 million with continued growth in
unearmarked, core funding, which allows UNICEF to maintain
presence on the ground where most needed.
	The European Union contributed US$382 million in 2019 that
provided quality education for more than 500,000 children in Jordan,
Lebanon and Turkey; improved service delivery and contributed
to the well-being of refugee Rohingya children in Bangladesh; and
helped fight malnutrition in the Sahel region of western Africa.
	The Netherlands signed its first three-year core and global
thematic humanitarian contributions in 2019. In 2019, Estonia
made its inaugural contribution to UNICEF’s global innovation
work and further strengthened cooperation in Georgia.
FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

46

Partnerships are
central to the results
that UNICEF delivers
for every child in
over 190 countries
and territories.

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

Asma’a, 6, plays with friends in a kindergarten class in the Za’atari Refugee
Camp for Syrian refugees in Jordan. The kindergarten class and other quality
education opportunities are provided in partnership with the Jordan Ministry
of Education with support from the Governments of Australia, Canada,
Ireland, the United Kingdom and the United States.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

47

© UNICEF/UN0297825/Herwig

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

In addition:
	In 2019, UNICEF was recognized as a lead World Bank Partner for
investments in human capital and expanded partnerships in Latin
America, Africa and Asia, including for education, health, nutrition,
social protection and WASH.
	 The Nordic partners (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden)
provided strategic and high-quality funding for programmes focusing on
child protection, education, WASH and humanitarian assistance for the
most vulnerable children worldwide. Norway and Sweden remained
the top two resource partners to UNICEF’s Thematic Funding.
	Global Programme Partnerships contributed US$356 million in 2019.
UNICEF received Global Fund support for the national tuberculosis
(TB) control programme and elimination of malaria in the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea.
	The Government of Japan recognized UNICEF’s key roles in
ensuring a polio-free Africa, building on their US$33 million
contribution for UNICEF since 2017.
	Support from the Republic of Korea increased to
nearly US$44 million with cross-sectoral, multi-year funding
for areas including innovation, gender and climate change.

In 2019, UNICEF’s 137 government
partners, along with
intergovernmental organizations
and inter-organizational
arrangements, contributed
US$4.7 billion. Partnerships with
the private sector continued to
grow in significance, contributing
US$1.5 billion, and increasingly
mobilizing programmatically.

Partnerships with the World Bank
expanded to more countries than
ever with almost US$400 million
in joint projects implemented by
UNICEF in 2019. UNICEF and the
Islamic Development Bank financed
child-related SDGs in member
countries through the Global Muslim
Philanthropy Fund for Children.

Ninety-seven country offices and
20 National Committees reported
working with 3,101 businesses and
business platforms to mobilize
resources, skills and assets, secure
support for advocacy on children’s
issues, and address business
impact on children in the workplace,
marketplace and community.

An estimated 34.25 million children
were reached by programmatic
and advocacy interventions
involving business in 2019,
contributing to results in all of
UNICEF’s programme areas.

Financial contributions from
corporate partners increased to
US$201 million in 2019, more than
20 per cent in growth compared to
US$167 million raised in 2018.

UNICEF philanthropy partners
contributed US$185 million in 2019.
Contributions from Major Donors
have doubled in the past five years,
thanks to the generosity of donors
and UNICEF’s innovative approach.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

48

TOP RESULTS

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: PARTNERSHIPS

PRIVATE SECTOR PARTNERSHIPS
The Business for Results (B4R) initiative gained significant momentum in 2019.
The initiative aims at maximizing the power of business and markets for children
by fostering a global capacity-building and culture-change programme; strengthening
coordination an	d leadership learning engagements with business partners; and
incorporating business as a stakeholder in the development of programme strategies.

Child Rights and Business

Foundation partnerships

UNICEF’s child-rights focused approach to business
identifies the impact of business on children and
works with governments and influencers of business
behaviour for regulatory, policy and infrastructural action.

In 2019, UNICEF mobilized US$152 million from
foundation partners in support of programmes that will
shift the needle for children around the world.

	 New partnerships with the World Benchmarking
Alliance and institutional investors expanded the range
of child rights criteria included in environmental, social
and governance (ESG) assessments.

Corporate partnerships
In 2019, UNICEF and partners reached an
estimated 15 million children worldwide and raised
US$201.3 million, 21 per cent more than 2018 and
exceeding the planned U$190 million target. This was
made possible partly thanks to:
	 Renewed partnership with the LEGO Foundation for
a $28 million five-year commitment focused on playful
parenting and learning through play in South Africa.
	 New six-year $12.5 million partnership with
AstraZeneca to reach young people and help prevent
non-communicable diseases.
	 Renewed support from Takeda with $9 million
contribution to UNICEF Venture Fund, bringing overall
value of the partnership from $9 million to $22.5 million.
	 Global work with UNILEVER expanded through a new
three-year partnership with Dove to help 10 million young
people (especially girls) in Brazil, India and Indonesia to
gain self-esteem and body confidence.

	 UNICEF and The Power of Nutrition signed a
new US$100 million joint investment to implement
effective, evidence-based and sustainable programmes
in 11 countries in sub‑Saharan Africa and Asia with the
highest levels of stunting and infant malnutrition.
	 A new US$30 million co‑investment partnership with
The Rockefeller Foundation will focus on reducing maternal
and child mortality in India and Uganda by applying data
science to better deploy life-saving health tools.

Philanthropy partners
Results for children could not be achieved without the
engagement and support of major donors and membership
and faith-based organizations partners, such as:
	 Rotary International, which continues to be a leader in
the Global Polio Eradication Initiative and provided more
than US$64.6 million.
	 Latter-day Saint Charities, which supports early
childhood development needs of refugees in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, Sudan and
Uganda with nearly US$15 million contributed to date,
and is a partner in UNICEF’s global effort to eliminate
maternal and neonatal tetanus.
	 Zonta International, the only private-sector donor to focus
on ending child marriage, made a $2 million commitment.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

49

	 Argentina, Canada, Colombia, Ecuador, Indonesia,
Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand, the Philippines
and Uruguay were among offices working with
governments to develop regulation on issues such as
labelling, marketing and taxation of obesogenic foods.

	 UNICEF and The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
advanced work to contain and eradicate polio,
strengthened collaboration around health and nutrition in
Africa, and established the framework for a multi-year joint
investment to accelerate results across priority countries.

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: INNOVATION

Change Strategy: 		
Innovation

In 2019, UNICEF
responded by
embracing innovation
as a change strategy
for accelerating
results in priority
programme areas.

As recommended by the 2019 Evaluation of Innovation in UNICEF Work:
Synthesis Report, the UNICEF Office of Innovation drafted a new vision and
strategy, initiated structural changes and introduced a portfolio management
approach to its work. And throughout 2019, the office worked with partners
around the world to leverage diverse streams of financing to scale up ongoing
innovations, build on new ideas and search the horizon for inspiration.

Scale up: U-Report
UNICEF has pioneered scalable innovation including UPSHIFT, a programme
underway in 21 countries that empowers young people to identify and
address challenges in their communities, encouraging them to become
social entrepreneurs. Another hallmark innovation is U-Report, a free social
messaging tool that empowers young people to engage with and speak out
on issues that matter to them. In 2019, U-Report:
	Launched in 15 new countries
	 Added nearly 2.5 million new users – a 56 per cent increase from 2018
	Reached a milestone of 9 million active users in 67 countries.

Mid-term: drones
Building on its ongoing innovations in drone technology for humanitarian and
development efforts, the UNICEF Office of Innovation worked in 2019 with more
than 15 companies, universities and research centres and the Government of
Malawi to test drone technology in a corridor established for humanitarian work.
The work in Malawi is just one example of how the UNICEF Office of
Innovation works with partners on using drones for good. In addition,
UNICEF, through Venture Fund investments, supports the use of drones
in Vanuatu, Kazakhstan and Sierra Leone in multiple efforts: for example,
for enterprises that supply vaccines and provide emergency responses
and health-care initiatives. In addition, UNICEF has also worked with
governments and partners to develop a regulatory framework and global
recommendations on how to safely use drones for humanitarian missions.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

50

As the world changes,
so do the challenges
facing children,
their families and
communities.

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: INNOVATION

In 2019, the UNICEF Office of Innovation worked towards the launch of the
African Drone and Data Academy in January 2020. The academy prepares
students – including Tadala Makuluni, above – to become drone pilots and
tech entrepreneurs. The academy, a partnership with Virginia Tech and the
Malawi University of Science and Technology, responds to the growing need
for trained drone experts in the region.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

51

© UNICEF/UNI289403/Moving Minds

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

CHANGE STRATEGY: INNOVATION

RIGHT: Pupils participating in a pilot
multimedia learning programme in
Jordan. Internet connectivity is a critical
factor in reducing inequalities and
ensuring that all children have access to
information, opportunity and choice.
© UNICEF/UN0299604/Herwig

Long-term: GIGA
Among the long-range innovations, UNICEF and the International
Telecommunications Union in 2019 launched a global initiative to connect
every school to the internet and every young person to information,
opportunity and choice. The initiative, GIGA, begins with efforts in Central
Asia, Eastern Africa and the Eastern Caribbean.

TOP RESULTS

Launch of the UNICEF
Cryptocurrency Fund, the first in
the United Nations, which allows
for contributions to be collected
and used in cryptocurrency.

Testing and creation of new highly specialized tents, officially launched in
January 2020 to provide shelter for children displaced by conflict or disaster;
the tents meet more than 1,000 specialized requirements and can be used
for learning, play and child protection, nutrition and services.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

52

Announcement of five global winners of the GenU Youth Challenge, a partnership with Generation Unlimited, UNICEF
and UNDP that provided seed money to 80 youth-led projects in 16 countries; the winning projects included an
application that delivers low-cost learning materials.

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Financials and Stewardship
Funded entirely by voluntary
contributions, UNICEF is
committed to ensuring that
every dollar goes as far as
possible to save and improve
children’s lives.

As one of the world’s largest buyers of life-saving supplies
for children, UNICEF is in a unique position to negotiate the
lowest prices and deliver value for money. Transparency
around funding sources and how UNICEF spends its
resources is fundamental to achieving results for children and
young people.

Total UNICEF revenue by source
and funding type, 2019*
(in US dollars)

Total funding:
i

$6,412 million

Governments and intergovernmental agencies

Regular resources:	 $480 million	

7%

Other resources:	

53%

$3,368 million	

Private sector and non-governmental organizations

Regular resources:	 $695 million	

11%

Other resources:	

12%

$766 million	

Inter-organizational arrangements

Other resources:	

e
at
iv
Pr

on-governmental
nd n
or a
t
c
se

l
na
tio
iza

Gov
ern
me
nts
an
d

encies
al ag
ent
rnm
ve
go
er
nt

Int
eror
ga
n

Other

ts evenue
men r
nge
a
r
ar

$897 million	

14%

$206 million	

3%

Other revenue**

Other revenue:	

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

53

* The figures for 2019 are provisional and are subject to audit.
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

UNICEF revenue, 2013–2019
(in millions of US dollars)

Regular resources
Other resources (regular)
Other resources (emergency)

$3,500
$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500
0
2013

2014*

2015*

2016*

2017

2018

2019

* 2014–2016 revenue figures have been restated to reflect UNICEF’s 2017 revenue recognition policy.

Top 10 countries, contributions received by donor and funding type, 2019*
(in millions of US dollars)

$700

Government: Regular resources

Private sector: Regular resources

Government: Other resources

Private sector: Other resources

$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
0

United
States

Germany

United
Kingdom

Japan

Sweden

Netherlands

Norway

Canada

Republic
of Korea

Spain

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

54

* Includes contributions received from governments and UNICEF National Committees; excludes intergovernmental,
non-governmental, inter-organizational and pooled funds contributions.

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 partners to regular resources
by contributions received, 2019

Thematic contributions received,
2017 – 2019

(in millions of US dollars)

(in millions of US dollars)

COUNTRY

OUTCOME AREAS

REGULAR RESOURCES

Japan (NC*)

118

Health

United States

113

2017

2018

2019

16

13

14

HIV and AIDS

13

9

7

Republic of Korea (NC)

74

Nutrition

17

7

16

Germany

67

Education

87

100

84

Spain (NC)

64

Child protection

27

29

34

Sweden

63

WASH

33

66

32

United Kingdom

52

Safe and clean environment

–

1

1

France (NC)

52

Social inclusion

5

6

9

Norway

52

Germany (NC)

43

Sweden (NC)

42

Netherlands (NC)

39

Italy (NC)

39

Netherlands

37

United Kingdom (NC)

28

United States (NC)

21

Switzerland

20

Japan

19

Belgium

17

Belgium (NC)

16

Gender equality

1

1

3

Humanitarian

164

154

145

Total

363

386

345

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

* National Committee for UNICEF

Multi-year regular resources partners, 2016 – 2019
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)

DONOR COUNTRY
NAME

REVENUE*

PERIOD

MULTI-YEAR
AGREEMENT**

2016 

2017

2018

2019

Sweden 

4 years (2018–2021) 

–

–

294

–

295

United Kingdom

3 years (2018–2020) 

–

–

122

18

140

Netherlands 

3 years (2019–2021) 

–

–

–

110

110

Belgium 

4 years (2017–2020) 

–

72

(1)

(1)

70

Australia 

5 years (2016–2020) 

16

49

(3)

(1)

61

Switzerland 

4 years (2018–2021) 

–

–

61

–

61

Canada 

4 years (2018–2021) 

–

–

48

1

49

New Zealand

3 years (2019–2021) 

–

–

–

12

12

Qatar 

2 years (2019–2020) 

–

–

8

–

8

16

121

529

141

805

Total

* Revenue is recognized, for the most part, in the year the agreement is signed and amounts in other years represent revaluation due to
exchange rate fluctuations.
** Revenue data exclude write-downs.

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

55

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 30 resource partners by contributions received, 2019
(in millions of US dollars)*

PARTNER

REGULAR
RESOURCES

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

Regular

Emergency

113

89

541

743

United Kingdom

52

198

244

494

Germany

67

282

116

464

–

384

14

398

United States

World Bank Group
European Commission

–

224

157

382

21

242

36

299

–

–

271

271

Norway

52

94

43

188

Sweden

63

75

48

187

–

160

–

160

Netherlands

37

102

21

159

Japan (NC)

United States (NC**)
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)***

Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance

118

18

9

145

Canada

12

79

40

131

Japan

19

26

66

111

Germany (NC)

43

28

30

101

–

70

19

89

Republic of Korea (NC)

74

15

0

89

Spain (NC)

64

10

7

82

United Nations Development Group Joint Programmes

–

78

–

78

Saudi Arabia

1

2

66

69

France (NC)

52

11

5

68

United Kingdom (NC)

28

26

13

66

Sweden (NC)

42

11

8

61

1

2

56

58

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)****

United Arab Emirates
Netherlands (NC)

39

11

3

54

Global Partnership for Education

–

52

–

52

Denmark

9

23

14

46

Republic of Korea

4

30

10

44

Italy (NC)

39

2

2

44

Switzerland

20

11

12

43

* Contributions received in cash and in kind.
** National Committee for UNICEF.
*** Contributions received from the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs include $142.1 million related to the Central Emergency
Response Fund and $128.6 million related to other sources, including $104.4 million of pass-through contribution from Saudi Arabia and
United Arab Emirates.
**** Contributions received from the United Nations Development Programme include $31 million related to joint programmes and One Fund.

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

56

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Private foundations, major donors and membership and faith-based organizations
contributing $100,000 or more to UNICEF programmes in 2019
Abdul Aziz Al Ghurair Foundation

FIA Foundation

Joe Jarvis

The Rockefeller Foundation

Mr. Ahmad Al Abdulla

Stefan Findel and Susan Cummings-Findel

Jersey Overseas Aid

Alejandro G. Roemmers

AJA Foundation

Fondation Botnar

Pasi Joronen

The Rotary Foundation of Rotary

The Ajram Family Foundation

Fondation Maßvoll Stiftung

Kim Seok Soo

Naza Alakija

Mikko FRANCK

Kin Bing Wu

Christopher and Crystal Sacca

The Alkek and Williams Foundation

The Fred Hollows Foundation

KINGOLD Group

Prince Al-Waleed bin Talal bin

Mr. Mohammed Al Ansari

Fundación Leo Messi

Klemens Hallmann and Barbara Meier

The Andan Foundation

G. Barrie Landry, Landry Family

Kiwanis International

Catherine Scheufele

Mr. David Kung

Pooja Bhandari and Caesar Sengupta

Foundation

Abdulaziz al Saud

Bainum Family Foundation

The Gaden Phodrang Foundation

Kwok Foundation

Frank and Wendy Serrino

Jim and Donna Barber

Dolores R. Gahan

Peter and Deborah Lamm

Barbara and Edward Shapiro

Mr. and Ms. Paula H. Barbour

The Garrett Family Foundation

Latter-day Saint Charities

Ms. Daphne W. Smith

Bezos Family Foundation

Gates Philanthropy Partners

Learning for Well-being Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus W. Spurlino

Jackie and Mike Bezos

GHR Foundation

Leonardo Maria del Vecchio

Ewout Steenbergen

BF&HAPPY

Ms. Kaia Miller Goldstein and

Elena Likhach

Stichting de Lichtboei

The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation

Dr. Nabil Malak

Klaus und Gertrud Conrad Stiftung

Susan and Dan Boggio

Jürgen B. Harder

Mr. Jonathan Goldstein

Bob and Tamar Manoukian

Klaus-Friedrich-Stiftung

Charlotte and Peter Bolland

Nigel, Sarah, Amelia, Annabel and

Margaret A. Cargill Philanthropies

Tanlaw Foundation

Bruce and Jina Veaco Foundation

Olivia Hammond

Mastercard Foundation

Mr. Bernard Taylor

The Charles Engelhard Foundation

Helaina Foundation

John W. McNear

Ms. Julie Taymor

CHENGMEI Charity Foundation

Henderson Warmth Foundation & Lee

Megha and Aditya Mittal

Byron and Tina Trott

The Child & Tree Fund

Morris Braun Foundation

United Nations Foundation

Children’s Investment Fund Foundation

John A. Herrmann

Charles, Jamie and Lucy Meyer

Hallie Vanderhider

Chin Family Foundation

Hobson/Lucas Family Foundation

National Philanthropic Trust

Wellcome Trust

Conrad N. Hilton Foundation

Michelle and Joel Holsinger

Nenäpäivä Foundation

The Wilson Family Foundation

Dining for Women

Mr. Dariush and Mrs. Nazanin

The New Venture Fund

Angel Woolsey

Oak Foundation

Dr. Hu Xiang

Direct Aid

Shau Kee Foundation

Hosseini

Dubai Cares

IKEA Foundation

The One Foundation

Ng Sze Ying

Steve and Margaret Eaton

Impetus Foundation in honor of the

Pacific Leading Limited

Ms. Wang Ying

Ms. Erica Packer

Yip Foundation

Educate a Child (EAC), a programme of
the Education Above All Foundation

Alvarez and Fernandez families
Islamic Relief USA

Andrea Panconesi, LUISAVIAROMA

Youri Djorkaeff Foundation

Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Eisenson

J.T. Tai Foundation

Paul G Allen Family Foundation

Zonta International

The Eleva Foundation

Japan Committee, Vaccines for

Power of Nutrition

Eva Ahlström Foundation

the World’s Children

Radiohjälpen

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

57

Mr. Terry Anderson

International

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Corporate sector alliances contributing $100,000 or more to UNICEF programmes in 2019
Adolf Würth GmbH & Co. KG

Novo Nordisk A/S

BASF Foundation / BASF SE

Arm Ltd

Novo Nordisk Foundation

H & M Hennes & Mauritz

AstraZeneca

Pandora

Beko

Philips Foundation

Hugo Boss AG

Essity

Sansiri Public Company Limited

Big Hit Entertainment

Primark

Ingka Group / IKEA

Impresos de Seguridad Signal

True Corporation Public

BT Group

Procter & Gamble (Pampers)

CCC

Royal DSM

Change for Good [Aer Lingus

Samsung

Co-operative Society
Mexico

CP Group through CP

Banco Santander

Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG Kimberly Clark Mexico
United Internet for UNICEF
Foundation

Central Group
Foundation

Company Limited

Liomont Laboratories

United Kingdom

The Netherlands

Clarks

(Ireland), American Airlines

SAP SE

Gulf Countries

Nationale Postcode Loterij

Clipper Ventures Plc

(United States), Asiana

Takeda Pharmaceutical

1 in 11

TUi Care Foundation

GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)

ITP Media

Norway

London Stock Exchange Group
Manchester United Football

Airlines (Republic of Korea),

Company Limited

Cathay Pacific (Hong Kong,

Telenor Group

Linkmedia

DNB

China), Cebu Pacific Air

The Walt Disney Company

Majid Al Futtaim

KIWI Norge AS

(Philippines), easyJet

Tik Tok

Marriott

Paraguay

Marks and Spencer Group Plc

(United Kingdom), Hainan

Unilever

Hong Kong

ITAIPU BINACIONAL

People’s Postcode Lottery

Airlines (China), Japan

Volvo

Sunshine Forever Limited

Philippines

Petroleum Experts Limited

India

Concentrix Corporation

The 2019 ICC Cricket World

Airlines (Japan), Qantas

Club

NATIONAL ALLIANCES

Sun Foundation

Portugal

Chloé

Angola

Indonesia

Allianz

Twinings

Clé de Peau Beauté

Banco do Fomento Angola

PT Hutchison 3 Indonesia

South Korea

Vitality

Cubus AS

Argentina

PT Prudential Life Assurance

BGF Retail

United States

DLA Piper

CBA

Italy

SM Entertainment

Amazon

Ethical Tea Partnership

Australia

Easy Welfare

Spain

American Express Global

Facebook, Inc.

P&O Cruises Australia

Fondazione Generali The

Abertis

Fundación FC Barcelona

Brazil

Gardena GmbH

Fundação Itaú Social

Garnier

Instituto Claro

Gina Tricot AB

Ministério Público do Trabalho

Airways Ltd. (Australia)]

Google

(MPT)

Human Safety Net

Cup

Business Travel

Banco Santander

Apple Matching Gifts Program

Japan

El Corte Inglés

Astellas Global Health

AEON 1% Club Foundation

Forletter

CONSUMERS CO-OPERATIVE

Foxy

KOBE

Foundation
Becton Dickinson

Fundación Aquae

Pharmaceutical Systems

H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB

Samsung

Consumers’ Co-operative Mirai Garnier

Etc Labs

H&M Foundation

The Resource Foundation

Co-op Deli Consumers’

Henkel

Georgia-Pacific LLC

Hallmark Cards, Inc.

Hoteles Amigos

Global Impact

Henkel AG & Co. KGaA

Canada

(Johnson & Johnson)

COOP SAPPORO

Co-operative Union

Iberia

Hasbro

ING

B2Gold Corp.

Fuji Television Network, Inc.

Multiplica

IKEA US Retail

Johnson & Johnson, Inc.

Teck Resources Ltd.

(FNS Charity Campaign)

Starwood

Jefferies LLC

Kimberly-Clark Corporation

China

Honda Motor Co., Ltd.

Telefonica

L’Oréal USA: Giorgio Armani

L’Occitane

By-health Co., Ltd

IDOM Inc.

We Are Water

LEGO Foundation

Tencent Foundation

ITOHAM FOODS Inc.

Sweden

Niantic, Inc.

LEGO Group

Denmark

Japanese Consumers’

AB Pictura

Priceline Group

Les Mills

Hempel Fonden

Boråstapeter

Prudential Financial

LIXIL Corporation

Ecuador

Japanet Holdings Co., Ltd.

Brynäs IF

Qatalyst Partners

Louis Vuitton Malletier

Diners Club International

Kao Corporation

Companies for Malawi

S&P Global Foundation

Marriott International

Finland

Mitsuboshi Belting Ltd.

NCC AB

S’well

Meliá Hotels International

Rovio

MUFG Bank, Ltd.

Operation Dagsverke

Starbucks

Microsoft

France

Oriental Land Co., Ltd.

Radiohjãlpen

Target Corporation

Millicom

AXA

Saraya Co., Ltd.

Sandvik Coromant

The UPS Foundation

MMG Limited

Clairefontaine

SL Creations Co., Ltd.

Svenska PostkodLotteriet

Visa Inc

Moncler

Gémo

Sumitomo Mitsui Banking

Switzerland

WWE

MSC Foundation

Groupe Neo-Soft

Nokia Oyj

Société des Eaux de Volvic

Nordic Choice Hotels AS

Germany

Co-operative Union

Corporation
Sumitomo Mitsui Card
Company, Ltd.

Fragrances

ALDI SUISSE AG
Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

58

Deutschland

U CO-OP Consumer

Thailand

MULTI-COUNTRY ALLIANCES Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA

Amadeus IT Group

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 National Committee donors, 2019
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)

COUNTRY

REGULAR RESOURCES**

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

11

280

292

128

35

164

Germany

49

56

104

Republic of Korea

76

15

91

United Kingdom

29

50

78

Spain

60

16

76

France

46

15

61

Sweden

36

20

57

Netherlands

39

15

53

6

42

48

37

4

42

9

11

21

United States
Japan

Denmark
Italy
Norway
Switzerland

4

16

20

Hong Kong, China

13

5

18

Finland

13

3

16

Belgium

14

2

16

Canada

9

7

15

Australia

5

6

11

Portugal

7

3

10

Poland

8

1

9

* National Committee ranking is based on revenue amounts in order to be comparable to fundraising plans that are also revenue based.
** Regular resources excludes Other contributions.	
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.				

Top 10 National Committees by advocacy contribution to children, 2019
(revenue in US dollars)

ADVOCACY CONTRIBUTION

Netherlands

3,913,336

United Kingdom

3,863,581

Japan

3,285,474

Germany

3,137,874

France

2,794,909

Spain

2,386,358

United States

1,966,528

Switzerland

1,804,067

Italy

1,732,580

Canada

1,690,314

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

59

COUNTRY

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2019
(in US dollars)

OVERVIEW
Regular resources

1. Countries*

Other resources

Other Contributions ***

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

477,384,483

653,611,519

2,795,279,617

725,013,434

2,437,083

40,737,029

4,694,463,165

2. Intergovernmental
agencies

22,324

–

572,091,853

–

–

–

572,114,177

3. Non-governmental
organizations

–

457,582

–

41,857,852

–

–

42,315,434

4. Inter-organizational
arrangements

83

–

896,762,803

–

234,525

–

896,997,411

5. Other revenue**

–

–

–

–

–

–

206,380,755

477,406,890

654,069,101

4,264,134,273

766,871,285

2,671,608

40,737,029

6,412,270,941

Total

* Includes contributions from governments, National Committees and country offices–private sector.
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
*** Contributions for specific management activities.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

1. DONOR COUNTRIES AND AREAS*	

Countries
Afghanistan

Other resources

Public sector

Private sector

477,384,483

653,611,519

Other contributions **

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

2,795,279,617

725,013,434

2,437,083

40,737,029

4,694,463,165

67,853

–

12,245,185

–

–

–

12,313,038

–

–

1,382,452

–

–

–

1,382,452

Andorra

28,419

441,376

8,975

280,497

–

–

759,268

Angola

180,000

–

–

1,200,000

–

–

1,380,000

Argentina

155,000

3,990,997

–

14,252,352

–

6,720,074

25,118,422

Armenia

120,790

–

–

24,000

–

–

144,790

Australia

(509,903)

4,935,927

22,795,411

6,326,126

–

–

33,547,560

Austria

10,803,676

American Samoa

1,217,292

3,151,195

5,884,523

550,665

–

–

Azerbaijan

25,000

–

–

–

–

–

25,000

Bangladesh

100,249

–

23,168,952

115,506

–

–

23,384,707

Barbados

195,575

195,575

–

–

–

–

–

Belarus

–

–

–

211,700

–

–

211,700

Belgium

(849,198)

13,808,657

5,393,708

2,189,619

–

–

20,542,785

Benin

24,124

–

356,989

–

–

–

381,113

Bhutan

13,118

–

–

–

–

–

13,118

165,000

4,038

225,000

82,541

–

–

476,579

1,770,153

1,504,825

–

7,650,770

–

3,038,663

13,964,412

78,500

67,755

198,000

817,538

–

269,589

1,431,382

Burkina Faso

–

–

3,954,665

–

–

–

3,954,665

Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cameroon
Canada
Central African
Republic
Chad

–

–

584,782

–

–

–

584,782

350,000

–

–

–

–

–

350,000

–

–

36,673,114

–

35,441

–

36,708,555

1,174,049

8,747,305

172,540,690

6,581,542

–

–

189,043,587

44,000

–

4,461,639

–

–

–

4,505,639

54,160

–

6,608,562

–

–

–

6,662,722

Bolivia
(Plurinational
State of)
Brazil
Bulgaria

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

60

Regular resources

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2019, continued

Public sector
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cyprus
Czech Republic

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

77,000

3,588,252

–

3,291,269

–

2,068,170

9,024,691

1,837,811

1,053,668

13,000,000

11,489,695

–

1,715,862

29,097,036

–

2,128,596

–

4,048,427

–

2,646,126

8,823,149

70,000

–

–

–

–

–

70,000

748,450

–

172,224

–

–

–

920,674

18,997

–

–

5,061

–

–

24,058

12,600

–

3,324,371

–

–

–

3,336,971
4,065,394

7,387

533,607

50,000

2,587,949

–

886,451

11,100

58,816

112,500

–

–

–

182,416

–

2,767,191

2,159,162

765,616

–

–

5,691,968

Democratic People's
Republic of Korea

130,070

–

–

–

–

–

130,070

Democratic Republic
of the Congo

343,411

–

32,109,191

–

–

–

32,452,602

8,717,517

5,950,949

51,766,676

41,650,892

–

–

108,086,034

88,000

–

–

537,834

–

–

625,834

600

670,340

–

4,556,249

–

860,544

6,087,733

Denmark
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Fiji
Finland
France
Gabon
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Guatemala
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Haiti
Honduras
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic
Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's
Democratic Republic
Lesotho
Liechtenstein
Lithuania

–

–

–

854,778

–

–

854,778

104,305

–

–

–

–

–

104,305

166,667

–

742,424

–

–

–

909,091

285,246

–

5,000,000

–

–

–

5,285,246

96,668

–

–

–

–

–

96,668

6,050,605

13,033,855

22,250,792

3,454,964

–

–

44,790,216

3,881,978

45,672,745

15,994,065

14,870,823

–

–

80,419,611

89,452

–

–

–

–

–

89,452

155,000

–

–

–

–

–

155,000

67,023,330

48,789,901

390,280,243

55,709,436

–

74,000

561,876,911

148,512

–

–

–

–

–

148,512

–

–

–

44,560

–

–

44,560

350,000

–

(52,803)

–

–

–

297,197

621,000

–

2,972,855

–

–

–

3,593,855

864

–

6,540,529

–

–

–

6,541,393

25,779

–

–

44

–

–

25,824

–

13,109,450

–

5,210,654

–

–

18,320,104
3,588,279

3,012,832

527,134

–

48,313

–

–

1,061,569

3,965,255

2,873,126

115,083

–

–

8,015,033

895,038

350,021

2,466,794

5,890,351

–

975,694

10,577,899

254,970

1,470,519

–

5,629,576

–

2,310,000

9,665,065

–

–

–

134,498

–

–

134,498

48,785

–

–

–

–

–

48,785

8,181,818

2,722,772

9,146,348

3,468,671

–

–

23,519,609

–

–

–

22,802

–

–

22,802

4,967,880

37,478,298

12,770,528

4,284,686

–

–

59,501,391

19,364,117

128,105,488

93,718,228

35,466,167

–

–

276,654,000

802,963

–

–

–

–

–

802,963

218,542

–

1,800,000

–

–

–

2,018,542

150,000

–

11,285,000

–

–

–

11,435,000

200,000

2,869

35,882,654

6,695

–

–

36,092,219

55,000

–

–

–

–

–

55,000

–

–

442,282

–

–

–

442,282

120,000

–

98,700

–

–

–

218,700

25,025

–

–

–

–

–

25,025

16,502

–

–

4,770

–

–

21,272

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

61

Regular resources

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2019, continued

Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar
Namibia
Netherlands
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
North Macedonia
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Republic of Korea
Republic of Moldova
Romania
Russian Federation
Sao Tome and
Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo

Other resources
Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Total

Public sector

Private sector

3,282,276

1,078,210

17,351,624

2,084,605

–

–

23,796,715

–

–

4,771,479

–

–

–

4,771,479

–

–

2,066,804

–

–

–

2,066,804

284,000

8,494,432

100,000

4,843,768

–

6,475,223

20,197,422

33,500

–

2,958,259

–

–

–

2,991,759

–

–

27,778

–

–

–

27,778

20,610

–

–

–

–

–

20,610

214,000

1,641,593

–

5,817,292

–

2,476,837

10,149,721

28,539

–

175

–

–

–

28,713

90,408

–

–

1,037,069

–

–

1,127,477

22,194

–

34,000

–

–

–

56,194

99,146

–

2,999,850

–

–

–

3,098,996

7,500

–

500,000

–

–

–

507,500

43,346

329

3,751,668

–

–

–

3,795,343

120,000

–

–

–

–

–

120,000

110,334,460

38,526,730

251,005,084

14,677,294

–

–

414,543,568

12,135,869

1,330,900

1,380,983

3,222,333

–

–

18,070,085

40,156

–

–

210

–

–

40,366

4,000

–

32,135,055

–

–

–

32,139,055

1,758,911

694

32,908,036

177,783

–

–

34,845,424

–

–

–

65,909

–

–

65,909

51,480,123

9,244,863

78,291,405

11,448,823

–

–

150,465,214

167,739

–

1,500,000

–

–

–

1,667,739

–

–

677,471

–

–

–

677,471

723,184

21,432

350,000

835

375,000

–

1,470,451

–

–

–

2,861,270

–

–

2,861,270

–

651,462

–

1,845,217

–

1,062,817

3,559,497

49,085

865,950

–

3,116,181

–

1,687,366

5,718,581

–

7,976,756

202,171

1,489,635

–

–

9,668,563

44,643

7,186,409

–

2,650,812

–

–

9,881,863

3,802,249

76,237,001

40,014,433

14,670,131

–

–

134,723,814

57,000

–

–

–

–

–

57,000

50,000

164,197

(3,964)

919,159

–

389,689

1,519,081

1,000,000

–

12,270,248

–

–

–

13,270,248

19,500

–

–

–

–

–

19,500

1,096,700

15,360

55,000,000

2,425,664

–

–

58,537,724

398,500

–

–

–

–

–

398,500

51,000

9,985

3,815,863

712,943

–

323,295

4,913,086

384,000

–

642,950

–

–

–

1,026,950

50,000

184,600

–

11,074

–

–

245,674

11,416

86,481

111,483

89,643

–

–

299,022

30,400

915,342

45,662

373,472

–

–

1,364,876

435,700

–

300,000

–

–

–

735,700

–

–

–

477,534

–

–

477,534

–

–

17,733,070

–

–

–

17,733,070

550,055

60,214,040

5,009,491

15,746,167

–

–

81,519,753

15,630

–

–

17,834

–

–

33,464

259,800

–

–

–

–

–

259,800

400,727

36,235,409

138,960,651

20,487,104

–

–

196,083,891

29,646

4,478,982

39,511,594

15,984,717

2,026,642

–

62,031,582

32,400

–

3,171,656

–

–

–

3,204,056

474,208

4,855,115

–

11,115,529

–

4,140,839

20,585,691

100,000

–

–

–

–

–

100,000

26,000

–

–

–

–

–

26,000

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

62

Regular resources

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2019, continued

Regular resources
Public sector
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
United Arab Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of
Tanzania
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Viet Nam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Other
Revenue
Adjustments
Total

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Other contributions **

Private sector

Public sector

Total

Private sector

15,000

–

–

–

–

–

16,108

–

–

–

–

–

15,000
16,108

54,835

1,967,693

–

408,058

–

–

2,430,586

71,746

–

–

–

–

–

71,746

469,000

–

7,583,419

332,500

–

–

8,384,919

671,670

372,419

56,995,366

7,144,556

–

–

65,184,012

17,832,467

28,732,328

345,626,427

49,504,334

–

–

441,695,556

22,000

–

–

–

–

–

22,000

132,500,000

11,156,508

627,281,738

280,448,120

–

1,350,000

1,052,736,366

72,450

1,964,132

–

1,935,864

–

1,265,364

5,237,811

310,000

–

–

–

–

–

310,000

34,254

10,578

–

–

–

–

44,832

257,520

–

–

–

–

–

257,520

–

–

10,320,777

–

–

–

10,320,777

12,358

359,560

-

2,297

–

428

374,643

(55,118)

226

(15,511,621)

2,434,980

–

-

(13,131,532)

477,384,483

653,611,519

725,013,434

2,437,083

40,737,029

4,694,463,165

2,795,279,617

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees.
** Contributions for specific management activities.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding. Negative amounts against countries, for the most part, are due to revaluation.

2. INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES
Regular resources

Other resources

European Commission

22,324

Subtotal

22,324

European Commission

353,373,654

Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance

135,798,903

Global Financing Facility

1,008,880

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)

1,778,242

Global Partnership for Education
Nutrition International

52,302,317
9,021,220

UNITAID

966,442

Revenue Adjustments

(17,842,194)

Subtotal

572,091,853

Total

572,114,177

3. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
Other
Clinton Health Access Initiative
Education Cannot Wait Fund
Other resources

457,582

Subtotal

End Violence Fund

457,582
5,578,089
30,870,702
4,951,479

Other

457,582

Revenue Adjustments

–

Subtotal

41,857,852

Total

42,315,434

UNICEF ANNUAL REPORT 2019

63

Regular resources

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2019, continued

4. INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
Regular resources

United Nations Development Group joint programmes

83

Subtotal

83

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)

6,501,940

International Labour Organization (ILO)

3,145,698

International Organization for Migration (IOM)

13,409,738

Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)

270,195,160

The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)

30,000

United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations

2,560,329

United Nations Development Group joint programmes

77,525,858

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)

96,377,016

United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
Other resources

United Nations Mine Action Service (UNMAS)

110,000

United Nations Mission in Kosovo

103,030

United Nations Mission for Ebola Emergency Response (UNMEER)

77,209

United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)

33,803,658

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)

36,909,106

United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS

6,891,900

United Nations The Resident Coordinator Office
United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security (UNTFHS)
World Bank Group
World Food Programme (WFP)
World Health Organization (WHO)
Revenue Adjustments
Subtotal
Other contributions

621,692
2,651,613

72,000
208,025
332,468,667
10,050,674
6,990,201
(3,940,711)
896,762,803

United Nations Department of Peacekeeping Operations

234,525

Subtotal

234,525

Total

896,997,411

5. OTHER REVENUE*
Total

206,380,755

GRAND TOTAL
6,412,270,941

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

64

* Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

FINANCIALS AND STEWARDSHIP

For every child
Whoever she is.
Wherever he lives.
Every child deserves a childhood.
A future.
A fair chance.
That’s why UNICEF is there.
For each and every child.
Working day in and day out.
In more than 190 countries and territories.
Reaching the hardest to reach.
The furthest from help.
The most excluded.
It’s why we stay to the end.
And never give up.

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
New York, NY 10017, USA
pubdoc@unicef.org
www.unicef.org
ISBN: 978-92-806-5135-5

FOR EVERY CHILD, REIMAGINE

66

© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
June 2020

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

