Annual Report

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

Data in this report are drawn from the most recent
available statistics from UNICEF and other United
Nations agencies, annual reports prepared by
UNICEF Country Offices and the Annual Report of
the Executive Director of UNICEF presented to the
Executive Board, 11–14 June 2018.
For any corrigenda found subsequent to
printing, please visit our website at
www.unicef.org/publications

FRONT COVER: Ebenise, age 4, sits in front of her
house in Teko village, central Côte d’Ivoire, during a
UNICEF-supported educational programme on water,
sanitation and hygiene.

ISBN: 978-92-806-4967-3

© UNICEF/UN0149870/Dejongh

© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
June 2018

PAGE 2: UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta H. Fore.
© UNICEF/UN0154449/Nesbitt

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Annual Report

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

MESSAGE FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

For Every Child, Opportunity
There is an ‘opportunity cost’ whenever we fail to
seize an opportunity that is worth the investment of
our valuable time and resources.
When we fail to invest in the well-being and fundamental
rights of children and young people in need and at risk, the
opportunity cost is too high to bear. It is tallied not just in
dollars and cents foregone but in promising lives tragically
cut short. In vibrant bodies and minds diminished. In
families, communities and nations undermined.
Conversely, when children have a fair chance to grow up
healthy, educated, protected and loved, we reap collective
rewards that change lives as they change the world.
For more than 70 years, UNICEF has done whatever it
takes to provide children and adolescents – especially the
most disadvantaged – with opportunities to fulfil their vast
potential. Opportunities for health care, nutrition, and safe
water and sanitation. For quality learning and protection
from harm. For inclusion in society, free from bias and
discrimination.
We do this work because we believe in children’s
rights. But we also want the world to benefit from the
incredible opportunities offered by each new generation.
Opportunities to tap fresh ideas that can solve daunting
technological and environmental problems. To guide
youthful energy and optimism, fuelling social and
economic transformation. To build stability and peace in a
time of turmoil and relentless change.
In 2017 – as the following pages demonstrate – UNICEF
and its network of committed partners worked tirelessly
to realize these opportunities. We responded to
337 emergencies in 102 countries … reached 45 million
people with safe water supplies … treated more than
4 million children for severe acute malnutrition … helped
register 141,000 children on the move in 40 countries. And
so much more.

2

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

During my first few months as Executive Director, I have
witnessed first-hand the skill and dedication that UNICEF
staff members bring to this effort every day. Many of
them do so in some of the world’s toughest places – from
Rohingya refugee camps in Bangladesh to zones of
protracted conflict in the Syrian Arab Republic, South
Sudan, Yemen and beyond.
In a period of escalating attacks on aid workers, ensuring
the safety of our community of courageous women
and men is a top priority. And in a period marked by
heightened scrutiny of aid organizations, upholding
UNICEF’s high standards of integrity and transparency in
all that we do is essential.
There is much work to be done, of course. UNICEF will
need stable, predictable and flexible support to carry out
our ambitious new Strategic Plan for 2018 through 2021
and – looking further ahead – the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development.
The results we achieve will not happen by themselves.
They will happen because of our generous donors and
strong public-private partnerships. Such partnerships
combine the science, innovation, market reach, and
research and development of businesses with the
influence and levers of governments and the hands-on
experience of non-profits. Businesses, governments and
non-profits know the value of supporting healthier, better
educated and more prosperous populations.
Working jointly to realize our goals, we will also have
to widen our focus. In recent years, the world has
successfully rallied around the health and development
of children in the first decade of life – significantly
reducing preventable deaths among children under
age 5, among other achievements. Those efforts will
continue, but now we must do even more as children
grow into adolescence and young adulthood.

We cannot in good conscience invest in the first years
of children’s lives and assume this will secure their longterm prosperity. Today’s 1.2 billion adolescents present
an important opportunity to make targeted and timely
investments that can pay enormous dividends, for them
and for us all.
To seize the moment, UNICEF is pursuing an agenda
that calls for every young person to be in school,
learning, training or employment in 2030. The agenda will
encompass a range of partners – including governments,
United Nations agencies, the private sector, academia,
civil society and young people themselves. Together, we
will co-create, fund and scale up innovative approaches to
expanding digital and classroom education, and life and
work skills.
This is an opportunity we cannot afford to miss. It is
particularly critical for the most vulnerable, including girls,
migrant and refugee children and those living through
conflict and upheaval. It is a necessary response to a crisis
of demographics … a crisis of education … a crisis of
employment … a crisis of girls’ empowerment. Indeed, it
is a calling of our time.
As a new member of the UNICEF family, I look forward
to building on the achievements of our predecessors and
bringing our common vision closer to reality. Today’s young
generation deserves nothing less than this: opportunity,
for every child.

Henrietta H. Fore
UNICEF Executive Director

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

3

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Teacher Samira Akter (back row, far right) stands with Rohingya refugee children
in a UNICEF-supported learning centre at the Balukhali settlement in Cox’s Bazar,
Bangladesh. The influx of refugees from Myanmar’s Rakhine State into Bangladesh
accelerated after attacks on Rohingya people intensified in August 2017. As of late
December, the Inter-Sector Coordination Group (ISCG) reported that 655,000 Rohingya
refugees had entered Bangladesh since the attacks. According to ISCG’s rapid needs
assessment, 58 per cent of new arrivals were children. These refugee children, as
well as their peers in host communities, urgently need access to education. To provide
them with learning opportunities, UNICEF and partners have trained teachers and
constructed learning centres in refugee settlements and camps.
© UNICEF/UN0158132/Sujan

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

CONTENTS
Message from the Executive Director

For Every Child, Opportunity	

2

UNICEF Annual Report 2017

Introduction 	
01
Results for Children and	
Young People

6

10

Humanitarian Action	
12
Health	18
HIV and AIDS	
26
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene	
30
Nutrition	36
Education	42
Child Protection	
48
Social Inclusion	
54
Gender Equality	
60

02
Innovation:	
Accelerating Results

64

03
Supplies: Delivering on	
Child Rights

70

04
Partnership and	
Stewardship

74

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

5

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

UNICEF Annual Report 2017

Introduction
In 2017, UNICEF closed one chapter and prepared
to open another. Working with partners in
190 countries and territories to protect the rights,
lives, well-being and future of every child, the
organization upheld its reputation as a global
leader in both humanitarian and development
contexts. And as its Strategic Plan for 2014 through
2017 concluded, UNICEF also looked back on four
years of results achieved for and with children
and young people – and looked ahead to new
challenges on the road to achieving the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development.

6

UNICEF
2016
UNICEF| |ANNUAL
ANNUAL REPORT
REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Results achieved
During the period of the 2014–
2017 Strategic Plan, UNICEF and
partners achieved significant
results that provided millions of
children with the chance to live
healthy lives and achieve their
potential. The under-five mortality
rate continued its dramatic
decline; wild poliovirus cases fell
to the lowest number in history;
more children from the poorest
households attended primary
school; and fewer children were
affected by stunting.
UNICEF also led an increase
in global investment in early
childhood development and
contributed to an accelerated
decline in child marriage.

These successes occurred
even as conflict, disaster, fragility,
instability and displacement threatened children’s rights and lives.
Ongoing and escalating conflict in
countries such as the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Myanmar,
Nigeria, South Sudan, the Syrian
Arab Republic and Yemen meant
that children faced danger,
malnutrition, illness and poverty.
Cases of cholera surged and
outbreaks of diphtheria, measles,
Marburg virus, Ebola and plague
strained national health systems.
Education for millions of children
was put at risk.

Against this daunting backdrop,
UNICEF made steady progress.
Because of UNICEF’s work with
partners, in 2017 alone:
78.6 million children were
immunized against measles.
900,000 children under age
14 and living with HIV were
provided with antiretroviral
treatment.
12.5 million children received
learning materials.
15.9 million children were
registered at birth.
In emergency situations in 2017,
UNICEF and partners provided:
4 million children with
treatment for severe acute
malnutrition.
32.7 million people with access
to safe water.
8.8 million children with formal
and non-formal education.
3.5 million children with
psychosocial support.		

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

7

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

INTRODUCTION

Advocacy and engagement
UNICEF’s Cause Framework marked
its first full year of coordinating
advocacy, public engagement,
fundraising and communication
efforts in 2017. The goal of the Cause
Framework is to rally support and
resources for the organization’s programmatic and humanitarian work.
There were key achievements in all
four of the Cause Framework campaigns: Every Child Alive! (focusing
on child health and survival), Early
Moments Matter (early childhood
development), #ENDviolence (all
forms of violence against children)
and Children Uprooted (migrant
and refugee children). These
achievements included an inaugural
World Children’s Day celebrated in
161 countries; 5.4 million supporters
endorsing the UNICEF Agenda for
Action to protect migrant and refugee
children; and digital communication
networks that reached 1 billion
people around the world and engaged
more than 60 million people to take
action for children and young people.

Safeguarding staff
Protecting children around the globe
also requires safeguarding UNICEF
staff, as well as workers from partner
organizations. In 2017, protecting
staff was a constant concern.
Emergency personnel responded
to 337 crises in 102 countries.
Restrictions and denial of access for
humanitarian aid in conflict zones
created operational and security
challenges for these responders.
In all instances, the safety of staff
was of primary importance. But
UNICEF also strove to enhance
efficiency and effectiveness while
supporting humanitarian and
development reforms.
UNICEF maintained a commitment
to transparency and accountability,
as well. During a time of increased
scrutiny of international organizations and charities, UNICEF
remained one of the most trusted
humanitarian organizations globally,
and the most trusted children’s
organization.

UNICEF expenditure, 2017
(in millions of US dollars)
BUDGET CATEGORY
Development

5,297

Programme

5,148

Development effectiveness

149

Management

337

United Nations development coordination

7

Special purpose (including capital investment)

40

Other (including private fundraising and partnerships)
Total expenditure

8

155
5,835

NOTE:
Expenditure in this table
is presented on a modified
cash basis and reflects cash
disbursements and internal
obligation documents
(such as purchase orders)
created in 2017.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Delivering through partnership
In 2017, UNICEF was called upon
to do more for children – to be
more efficient, more agile and
more innovative.
By partnering with the private
sector and deepening public-sector
cooperation, UNICEF accelerated
programmatic interventions and
advocacy while driving new research,
development and innovation.
As a result, UNICEF is actively
involved in the ‘frontier issues’ that
are changing the world, including
biotechnology, cyberspace and
artificial intelligence. Each new arena
offers the promise of innovative solutions to the challenges of equitable
development.

A new plan
In the final year of the 2014–2017
Strategic Plan, UNICEF also revisited
the goals it set for the past four years
and envisioned a new plan to deliver
results for children and young people
in the next four years. The result of
this activity is UNICEF’s 2018–2021
Strategic Plan – a framework aligned
with the commitments of the
Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) and dedicated to reaching
every child, especially the most
disadvantaged.
To turn this new plan into action,
UNICEF and partners must renew
their efforts to reach the most disadvantaged children through urgent
humanitarian action and long-term
development efforts, and all points
in between. This work could not be
more urgent. For as the following
review of achievements
and challenges in 2017 shows,
UNICEF’s mission has never been
more critical, nor its drive for results
more determined.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

Direct programme expenses, 2017
(in millions of US dollars)
Regular resources
Other resources (regular)

By outcome
area

Other resources (emergency)

Total

$5,449
million

HIV/AIDS
34.0
45.5

By region

4.7

Social Inclusion

Europe and Central Asia (previously CEE/CIS)

131.6

29.2

159.1

81.9

122.5

164.2

Nutrition

Latin America and the Caribbean

113.7

43.5

241.0

83.0

310.7

46.9

Child Protection

Interregional

179.4

90.7

243.1

117.8

267.2

19.9

WASH

Middle East and North Africa

135.7

36.2

341.3

292.9

541.6

1,038.0

Education

Asia

162.6

241.9

497.8

518.5

542.4

104.6

Health

Sub-Saharan Africa*

235.3

550.7

873.4

1307.1

266.2

681.5

0

100 200

300 400 500 600 700 800 900

millions of US dollars

0

100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1,000 1,100 1,200 1,300

millions of US dollars

* Programme expenses for Djibouti and Sudan are included under sub-Saharan Africa.
NOTE: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

9

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

01
Results for
Children and
Young People
Operating in 190 countries and territories, including some of
the world’s toughest places, UNICEF and partners work day
in and day out to reach the most vulnerable and excluded
children and young people: to save their lives, to keep them
safe from harm and to give them a childhood in which they’re
loved, protected, healthy, nourished, educated and able to fulfil
their potential.

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

In partnership with national
governments, United Nations
partners, the private sector and
civil society – and with the full
participation of children and
adolescents themselves – UNICEF
is steadfast in its commitment to
the vision of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development: a world
in which no one is left behind.

The following pages highlight
the results that UNICEF and
partners achieved in its priority
programme sectors throughout
2017. In every sector, these
results were aligned with
the vision of the SDGs and
UNICEF’s own equity agenda,
which aims to realize the rights
of every child.

BELOW: Nine-month-old Danilo
(in blue), who has Congenital Zika
Syndrome and microcephaly, laughs as
his brothers shower him with kisses
inside their home in Guatemala City,
the capital of Guatemala.
© UNICEF/UN0148747/Volpe

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

11

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Muhammad (right) and his children, displaced from their home in Mosul, Iraq, leave the tent where
they have purchased winter clothes in Hasansham camp, Ninewa Governorate. With support from the
Directorate-General for European Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations and Germany’s Bank for
Reconstruction, UNICEF’s Warm for Winter campaign provided aid to displaced families across Iraq in 2017.
Children received warm clothing as well as thermal blankets, and pregnant women received packages of baby
clothes. In lieu of clothing, thousands of parents like Muhammad also received vouchers to purchase children’s
winter items from distributors. Vouchers allow families to buy appropriate winter clothes that meet the unique
needs of their children.
© UNICEF/UN048906/Anmar

12

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Humanitarian Action
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Responded to
337 emergencies
in 102 countries.

Reached nearly
33 million people
with safe water
in humanitarian
settings.

The humanitarian context
A year of cascading conflict plunged a
record 350 million children and young
people into humanitarian need in
2017. Natural disasters and the impact
of climate change forced children
from their homes and exposed them
to violence, exploitation, malnutrition
and disease.

In the Caribbean, 357,000 children
required emergency assistance in
the wake of some of the strongest
hurricanes in history. Flooding
in Haiti affected many of these
children, 4,700 of whom received
care, or were reunited with family
members, with help from UNICEF
and partners.

During three months in 2017 alone,
more than 300,000 Rohingya children
from Rakhine State, Myanmar, fled
their homes in the most rapid exodus
of refugees since the 1994 Rwandan
genocide. By the year’s end, an estimated 720,000 children were living in
refugee camps across the border in
Bangladesh.
Protracted conflicts in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, the Lake Chad
Basin and South Sudan also fuelled
grave violations of children’s rights.
By the end of 2017, some 2 million
Congolese children were suffering
from severe acute malnutrition.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Supported
basic education
for 8.8 million
children in
emergencies.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HUMANITARIAN
ACTION
#ChildrenUnderAttack

Attacks against children in conflict
areas reached shocking levels
in 2017. UNICEF drew attention
to the dangers children face in
countries including Afghanistan,
Cameroon, Myanmar, Nigeria,
South Sudan, Somalia, Ukraine
and Yemen in an end-of-year
emergency alert. The alert argued
that attacks against children
cannot be the ‘new normal’ and
called for them to cease.

13

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Rising to the challenge
UNICEF’s total humanitarian
expenses in 2017 amounted
to US$2.86 billion – more than
half of the organization’s total
expenses for the year and a
testament to the importance of
humanitarian action in building
a sustainable future for every
child. Some highlights of
UNICEF’s response follow:

	 In the Syrian Arab Republic,
UNICEF and partners provided
5.9 million people with access
to safe water (which included
rehabilitating war-damaged
infrastructure) and trucked water to
3.2 million people – in addition to
reaching more than 1 million children
with education services.

	 In Bangladesh, UNICEF delivered
US$8 million in emergency supplies
to Rohingya refugees fleeing violence
in neighbouring Myanmar, and to
their host communities. Child-friendly
spaces and psychosocial support
eased the trauma of refugee life for
more than 133,000 Rohingya children
and adolescents.

	 In Yemen, UNICEF-supported hygiene
promotion and household water
treatment helped reduce the impact
of a cholera epidemic that affected
more than 600,000 children.

	 In South Sudan, UNICEF and
partners vaccinated 1.8 million
children against measles, treated
some 207,000 children for severe
acute malnutrition and helped nearly
320,000 children gain access to
education.

	 Across 13 countries in droughtstricken Eastern and Southern Africa,
UNICEF provided emergency water
supplies and built or rehabilitated
urgently needed water and sanitation
systems.

Throughout the year, results like these
were replicated in many other humanitarian
situations in which the lives and futures of
children and young people were at stake.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2017: Humanitarian action
Reliable support from trusted
partners is key to UNICEF’s humanitarian response. In 2017, partners
continued to play a vital part in
strengthening the nexus between
urgent humanitarian action and
longer-term development work in
countries dealing with serious and
protracted crises.
The United States was the largest
donor to UNICEF humanitarian
operations, followed by the United
Kingdom. Denmark made a
multi-year commitment to flexible
humanitarian funding, which was
critical in UNICEF’s response to
emergencies in the Central African
Republic, Mali, Somalia, State of
Palestine and Yemen. In addition
to a US$73 million contribution
towards humanitarian aid, the
Government of Japan increased its
multi-year contribution to UNICEF’s

14

work in fragile and conflict-affected
countries. This support is helping
bridge the gap between humanitarian
and development assistance in
Afghanistan, the Kyrgyz Republic,
Pakistan, the Philippines and Yemen.
The United Nations Central
Emergency Response Fund (CERF)
also remained an essential component of the humanitarian system,
allocating nearly US$109 million in
grants to UNICEF. A more robust
CERF is critical to providing life-saving assistance to millions of children
and their families, and UNICEF fully
supports the Secretary-General’s call
to increase the fund to US$1 billion.
UNICEF’s ongoing humanitarian
response in the Syrian Arab
Republic and countries affected
by the Syrian conflict received
critical support from Norway,

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

which contributed US$38 million to
emergency education programmes
in the region. This funding was
instrumental in reaching 1.2 million
children in the Syrian Arab Republic
and neighbouring countries affected
by the flow of refugees.
For its part as a champion of the
No Lost Generation initiative for
Syrian children and young people,
the European Union released
US$237.5 million from the EU
Trust Fund to support education
and protection projects in Jordan,
Lebanon and Turkey. Norway,
another key donor to the Syrian
crisis response, continued its
support of the Education Cannot
Wait platform, which was launched
at the World Humanitarian Summit
2016 to provide agile education in
emergencies.

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

Equity in emergencies
UNICEF has also continued to focus
on reaching the most vulnerable
– particularly girls, young children,
adolescents, children with disabilities
and other marginalized groups – in
humanitarian contexts.
Over the past four years, for example,
the number of UNICEF Country
Offices reporting disability-inclusive
humanitarian action increased
sixfold. In 2017, UNICEF worked to
mainstream disability programmes in
its humanitarian response in countries
such as Yemen, where outreach teams
brought a cash transfer initiative to
remote communities, the elderly and
people with disabilities.

Because women and girls are likely
to suffer compounded threats in any
emergency, UNICEF scaled up its
work on preventing and responding
to sexual exploitation and abuse; to
that end, humanitarian workers and
partners in 16 countries received
training. In addition, UNICEF and
partners provided multi-sectoral
support to 1.6 million children and
women who had experienced or
were at risk of sexual violence.
Training in how to address genderbased violence was part of UNICEF’s
response to the migrant and refugee
crisis in European countries of
destination, as well.

BELOW: Charlie Agustino, age 7, comforts his niece Maria John,
age 2, who has been diagnosed with severe acute malnutrition and is
undergoing treatment at the family’s home in Juba, South Sudan. The
treatment includes a weekly supply of ready-to-use therapeutic food
provided by UNICEF.
© UNICEF/UN0152304/ González/Farran

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HUMANITARIAN
ACTION
#FourFamines

In March 2017, UNICEF
reported that 1.4 million
children were at risk of death
from severe acute malnutrition
in four countries affected
by famine: Nigeria, Somalia,
South Sudan and Yemen. The
news came with an appeal for
funding to provide health care,
nutrition services, safe water,
vaccinations and education.
While the appeal focused on
these four countries, the crises
crossed borders and included
the countries of the greater
Lake Chad Basin, as well as
Djibouti, Ethiopia, Kenya and
Uganda.

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017:
Humanitarian action
In other humanitarian
situations, Germany provided
US$4.8 million for access to
learning centres for Rohingya
refugee children in Bangladesh
– as well as funding for WASH
and education programming
in Iraq and Yemen. Also in
Yemen, UNICEF launched a
US$200 million cash transfer
project, funded by the World
Bank to help support and
empower the most vulnerable
households in the country.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

15

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HUMANITARIAN
ACTION
#RohingyaCrisis

One of the world’s fastest growing
humanitarian crises intensified in
October 2017 when 2,000 to 3,000
Rohingya refugees a day – more
than half of them children – were
arriving at camps in Bangladesh.
The crisis threatened children’s
health, nutrition, safety and
education. UNICEF called on the
world to make sure it did not steal
their futures, too.

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017:
Humanitarian action

In the corporate sector, UNICEF
and the Garnier cosmetics
company signed a three-year
agreement to help children
and families affected by emergencies. And ‘Louis Vuitton
for UNICEF’, a partner in crisis
response since January 2016,
helped raise funds for humanitarian support in Jordan,
Lebanon, Nigeria, the Syrian
Arab Republic and Yemen.
Finally, in the wake of the
2017 earthquake in Mexico,
the Barça Foundation contributed to UNICEF programmes
to protect children from
violence and ensure access to
WASH facilities.

16

From early childhood to
adolescence
Also in 2017, UNICEF increased its
support for early childhood development in emergency situations.
In December, the United Nations
General Assembly adopted a resolution citing early childhood education
as one of the measures needed to
prevent violent conflict and foster
social cohesion. As a next step,
UNICEF developed early childhood
education standards for dissemination in 2018.
At the same time, UNICEF
responded to the particular needs of
crisis-affected adolescents by equipping partners to deliver psychosocial
support and engage with these
young people in meaningful ways.
For adolescents exposed to conflict
and upheaval, such support can help
unlock their potential as powerful
agents for positive change.
In Nepal, for example, UNICEF
supported resilience training for
adolescents, tapping their potential
to support disaster risk management
and help rebuilding efforts in the
aftermath of a devastating 2015 earthquake. In the Syrian Arab Republic,
UNICEF and local partners involved
young people in life-skills training,
civic engagement activities and backto-school programmes for children
whose education had been disrupted
by conflict.

Safe water plus education
The diverse nature of emergencies
in 2017 contributed to UNICEF’s
largest-ever humanitarian effort in
the water, sanitation and hygiene
(WASH) sector. UNICEF reached
32.7 million people with drinking
water, 9 million with sanitation
and 28.1 million with hygiene
promotion.
In addition, WASH-in-schools initiatives increased school enrolment
and retention in various crisis zones.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

In the United Republic of Tanzania,
UNICEF helped provide WASH
facilities such as menstrual-hygiene
rooms for adolescent girls in schools
and child-friendly spaces, benefiting
more than 91,000 Burundian
refugees.
Beyond WASH, nearly 9 million girls
and boys in emergency situations
were able to access formal or
non-formal basic education with
support from UNICEF in 2017.

Supplies bring hope amid
hardship
Delivering supplies and services to
women and children affected by crisis
is critical not just to save lives, but to
sustain hope.
In 2017, UNICEF procured more
than US$553 million in supplies to
deliver aid to 61 countries facing
crises – supplemented by 16 direct
deployments from UNICEF’s Supply
Division to 10 countries around the
globe. One such direct delivery was
to Yemen, where approximately
11 million children have been affected
by conflict.
UNICEF also procured US$112.2 million
worth of nutrition products for
emergencies during the year, making
nutrition the largest component of its
emergency supply operations.

RIGHT: Rohingya refugee children queue
for aid at the Mainnerghona distribution
centre in Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh, in
November 2017.
© UNICEF/UN0147302/Brown

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

HUMANITARIAN ACTION

Linking humanitarian and
development work
To ensure that children affected by
emergencies are not left behind,
UNICEF advocated for better aid
coordination and greater coherence
between humanitarian action and
development work in 2017. In large
part, that meant strengthening
accountability to – and engagement
with – affected populations, and
promoting their preparedness,
resilience, empowerment and
participation.
In the Gambella region of Ethiopia, for
example, UNICEF designed and built
a permanent water system to serve
250,000 South Sudanese refugees
and their host communities.
In Bangladesh, UNICEF boosted
engagement with Rohingya families by
establishing feedback centres within
refugee camps, which provided critical
information on services and life-saving
messages to 200,000 people.

Looking ahead
While UNICEF achieved strong
results in humanitarian action in 2017,
the organization and its partners also
faced major obstacles.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HUMANITARIAN
ACTION

Armed conflict, civil unrest and the targeting of humanitarian workers have
made recent years the deadliest on
record for the aid community. Parties
to conflict frequently disrespect established norms and principles governing
humanitarian action and requiring the
protection of civilians during hostilities.
These factors are often a roadblock to
successful intervention.

#ChildrenUprooted

UNICEF will continue to engage with
sister United Nations agencies and
others to forge a humanitarian system
that is more responsive to country
situations, better able to assess risk
and prevent crisis, more strategic and
efficient in its institutional arrangements – and, ultimately, more effective
in supporting sustainable development
over the long term.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Throughout 2017, UNICEF and
partners drew attention to the
50 million children on the move
around the world. Two reports,
Harrowing Journeys and Beyond
Borders, focused respectively on
protecting children and youth on
the move across the Mediterranean
Sea and making the global compacts
on migration and refugees work
for uprooted children. Both reports
highlighted the dangers facing
migrant and refugee children –
including trafficking and exploitation
– and urged accelerated efforts to
save and improve their lives.
17

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Mothers sit with their newborn babies at the maternity health centre in Nassian
village, north-east Côte d’Ivoire, waiting for the infants to receive basic vaccinations
against yellow fever, rotavirus, measles, influenza, tetanus, hepatitis B and tuberculosis.
The centre also provides families with insecticide-treated nets. Sleeping under a
mosquito net is a simple measure to protect children and adults from malaria – yet
many Ivoirian children still don’t have access to nets and are at risk of illness or death
from this and other easily preventable diseases. With help from UNICEF and the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the Government of Côte d’Ivoire
launched a campaign to distribute millions of mosquito nets across the country in 2017.
© UNICEF/UN061403/Dejongh

18

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

Health
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Supported the vaccination of 141 million
children against
polio in Africa, where
not a single case of
wild poliovirus was
reported.

Maternal and neonatal progress
Between 2010 and 2016, improved
access to quality health care facilitated a steady decline in the global
rate of child mortality, saving the
lives of nearly 50 million children
under age 5 who otherwise would
not have survived.
Stillbirths and deaths within the
first 28 days of life accounted for a
disproportionate share of the underfive deaths that were not prevented,
however. Indeed, the poorest and
most marginalized children are
the least likely to have access to
life-saving neonatal interventions.
UNICEF therefore continues working
to make high-impact maternal and
child health interventions more
equitable.
In nearly 100 countries where
UNICEF works, skilled birth attendants were present for 80 per cent
of live births in 2017. There have
been especially significant gains in
Eastern and Southern Africa, where

Ensured
that more
.
than 25 million live
births were delivered
in health facilities,
accompanied
by skilled birth
attendants

coverage by skilled birth attendants
nearly doubled from 2000 to 2016.
The total number of countries where at
least 80 per cent of expectant women
had access to four antenatal check-ups
during their pregnancies reached 52 in
2017, up from 18 in 2013. Women benefited from fully functional emergency
obstetrical facilities in 50 countries.
Also in 2017, UNICEF advocated
with governments in 44 high-burden
countries and territories to finalize
action plans for dramatically reducing
neonatal mortality and stillbirth.
Twenty-four countries adopted a global
tracking tool to identify needs and set
targets for child-mortality reduction,
bringing the total number of countries
using the tool to 75.

Delivered
health services
to 15.2 million
children and
women in
humanitarian
emergencies.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HEALTH
#VaccinesWork

Immunization has led to a
dramatic reduction in under-five
deaths from vaccine-preventable
diseases, saving millions of young
lives – and UNICEF procures
vaccines to reach 45 per cent of the
world’s children under age 5. As
part of World Immunization Week
2017, UNICEF participated in
efforts to reaffirm the safety and
efficacy of vaccines for childhood
illnesses.

This is the sort of acceleration
required to achieve the SDGs on
health – and, ultimately, to ensure
that every child has a fair chance to
survive, thrive and reach his or her
developmental potential.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

19

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Health
The Government of Japan and
UNICEF forged a vital partnership for universal health
coverage in 2017. A US$2.9
billion commitment by Japan
to advance universal coverage
will help UNICEF leverage
its presence in sub-Saharan
Africa, the Middle East and
Asia, so that the most vulnerable children and their families
can benefit from strengthened
health systems.
Meanwhile, the Republic
of Korea joined the Global
Polio Eradication Initiative
by providing US$3 million
for polio outbreak response
and surveillance from 2016
to 2017.
A 2017 summit of experts,
co-hosted by UNICEF, ‘la
Caixa’ Banking Foundation
and the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation, sharpened the
global focus on pneumonia
as a major killer of children
under age 5 – and on the
innovations needed to save
their lives.

Defending a child’s right to
vaccination
Immunization averts an estimated
2 million to 3 million deaths every
year. Robust vaccination programming remained a pillar of UNICEF’s
work on child survival in 2017.
UNICEF was once again the world’s
largest buyer of vaccines in 2017, procuring 2.44 billion doses. To improve
access to immunization, UNICEF
continued to strengthen supply chain
systems and support the inclusion
of new vaccines to fight childhood
diseases, including the leading killers,
pneumonia and diarrhoea.
Meanwhile, 2.9 million women of
reproductive age received at least
two doses of tetanus-toxoid vaccines
through UNICEF-supported supplementary immunization activities
in seven countries. Such coverage
helped eliminate maternal and neonatal tetanus in 10 additional countries
between 2014 and 2017, preventing
an estimated 81,000 newborn
deaths.
Polio immunization activities also
continued apace. There were just
22 polio cases reported in two
countries, Afghanistan and Pakistan,
in 2017 – compared with 416 cases in
eight countries four years earlier.

In another joint initiative, ‘la
Caixa’ and UNICEF supported
the development of community-level diagnostic devices
to prevent child deaths from
pneumonia. The first field trial
of such a device, which can
detect pneumonia by measuring a child’s respiratory rate,
was conducted in a hospital
in Ethiopia. Further trials will
take place in 2018 in Ethiopia
and Nepal.

20

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Focus on adolescent well-being
Beyond its interventions in children’s
early years, UNICEF has increasingly
focused on the health of young
people through the second decade
of life. In 2017, for the first time, the
organization took part in producing
mortality estimates for children
between the ages of 5 and 14.
The data showed that injuries
and non-communicable diseases
accounted for half of those deaths.
Adolescent girls face higher risks of
adverse pregnancy than adult women
and require special attention. In 2017,
35 countries provided at least four
antenatal visits for at least 80 per
cent of mothers aged 15–19. Eighty
per cent of live births to adolescents
were attended by skilled birth attendants in 71 countries.
In addition, UNICEF, the United
Nations Population Fund and the
World Health Organization have
partnered to advocate for increased
governmental budget allocations
towards reducing adolescent pregnancy. More than 100 countries have
complied with this recommendation.
In 2017, UNICEF also continued its
cross-sectoral efforts to reduce adolescent HIV infection, and embarked
on new research and resource
allocation to address young people’s
mental health.

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

HEALTH

Health in humanitarian
emergencies
Humanitarian emergencies
stretched health systems and
exacerbated inequities in health
outcomes in 2017. In the Middle
East, damaged health infrastructure
made one in five children – some
24 million across the region
– dependent on international
assistance. UNICEF estimates that
one in four children worldwide lives
in a country affected by conflict or
disaster.

The interventions carried out by
UNICEF and partners in response
to 337 crises in 102 countries
during the year included efforts to
ensure health-care access to around
15 million children and women.
In the Syrian Arab Republic, for
example, vaccinations protected
more than 4.8 million children from
measles.

BELOW: A woman holds her child
near floodwaters in La Quinta, a rural
community in Sullana District, 35
kilometres from Piura, Peru. In early 2017,
a sudden and abnormal warming of Pacific
waters, known as a coastal El Niño, led to
deadly storms and floods that made health
services difficult to access for vulnerable
families and children in the area.
© UNICEF/UN059151/Vilca

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

21

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HEALTH
#EarlyMomentsMatter

The early years of life, and
especially the first 1,000 days, offer
a unique window of opportunity
to provide children with the
health care, nutrition, protection
and interactive stimulation they
need to thrive. As one of UNICEF’s
cornerstone campaigns in 2017,
#EarlyMomentsMatter focused on
providing the best start in life for
every child.

In other areas affected by crises,
UNICEF assisted the governments
of the Central African Republic,
Mali and Uganda in conducting
mass prevention campaigns against
meningitis A, and vaccinating
13.9 million people.
There were a record number of
cholera outbreaks in 2017, particularly
in conflict-affected countries where
water and sanitation systems
collapsed. With UNICEF support,
28 countries reported having comprehensive multi-sectoral plans for
cholera preparedness.

spreading disease. Coordinated
actions quickly brought an Ebola
outbreak in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo under
control (though another outbreak
would follow in 2018), while
Zika-prevention messages
reached more than 90 million
people in affected countries. And
in malaria-prone areas affected
by humanitarian crises, UNICEF
provided long-lasting insecticidetreated bed nets to nearly
948,000 families.

Outbreaks of diphtheria, measles,
Marburg virus and plague also
threatened children’s lives and
strained health systems in
many places during 2017, with
population movements further

@C4D in 2017

Communication for development in Ukraine
In Ukraine, the spread of myths and misinformation about
vaccine safety set back immunization coverage in the past
two years. In 2017, UNICEF launched a communication for
development campaign providing regional health departments
and qualified counsellors with information kits and other tools
to educate parents about infectious diseases – and to increase
trust in immunization. The campaign also featured a ‘digital
doctor’ initiative that engaged parents online.

RIGHT: Minutes after delivery, a mother
rests with her newborn infant in the
recovery room at Al Quseya Central
Hospital, Assuit Governorate, Egypt.
© UNICEF/UN0212241/Noorani

22

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

HEALTH

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

23

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017: HEALTH
#WorldPolioDay

Since 1988, the number of polio cases reported globally has dropped more than 99 per cent, down to 22 cases in
2017. But even as the world gets closer to eradicating polio, the threat still exists for children in a few endemic
countries and in emergency settings. Though World Polio Day is observed annually in October, UNICEF works
continually to bring life-saving oral polio vaccine to children in countries including Afghanistan, Cameroon,
the  Central African Republic, Chad, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan and the Syrian Arab Republic.

24

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

HEALTH

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Health
In 62 countries, UNICEF carried forward
its work with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance,
to improve equitable immunization.
Besides providing supply-chain, data and
sustainability support, UNICEF helped
roll out a cold-chain platform enabling
countries such as Haiti to move towards
a fully solarized system for preserving
vaccines during transport.
UNICEF vaccination campaigns also
received support from Amadeus, provider
of technology solutions to the global travel
industry, which has partnered with UNICEF
since 2012. Together with Finnair, Iberia and
Norwegian Air, Amadeus enabled UNICEF
to raise US$1 million through microdonations in 2017. The funds went towards
UNICEF’s unrestricted regular resources as
well as its Schools for Asia initiative and
global vaccination programme.

LEFT: A community-based vaccinator marks a child’s finger to show
that she has been immunized in urban Peshawar, Pakistan, where
UNICEF and partners have worked to improve routine immunization
coverage. 	
© UNICEF/UN0127379/Unknown

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

25

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Fred Zake plays with one of his two daughters, Beyonce, age 5, as his wife Abasa Navassa Prossie
looks on from their home in Kabale, western Uganda. After Abasa became pregnant with Beyonce,
Fred accompanied her to a health centre to receive antenatal care. During the visit, he tested
positive for HIV; Abasa was not infected. Staff at the centre gave the couple support and guidance
on HIV prevention and treatment, and advised Fred on helping his wife during her pregnancy.
Fred also receives advice and assistance from his church – and UNICEF works with faith-based
organizations across Uganda to increase understanding and awareness of the care and stimulation
children need for optimal development in their early years.
© UNICEF/UN065043/Ose
26

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

HIV and AIDS
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Helped bring the
number of new
HIV infections in
children averted
since 2010 to at
least 1.6 million,
based on the latest
available data.

Galvanized support
for a ‘catch-up
plan’ to double the
number of children
on antiretroviral
therapy (ART) in
West and Central
Africa between
2016 and 2018.

Transmission and treatment
priorities
The roll-out of improved services to
prevent mother-to-child transmission
of HIV has paid enormous dividends
in recent years. In 10 of 21 highburden countries in sub-Saharan
Africa, at least 80 per cent of
pregnant women living with HIV
had access to ART by the end of
2017. This achievement builds on a
remarkable halving of new infections
among children under age 14
between 2010 and 2016, the latest
year with available data.

But key challenges remain. For
the estimated 2.1 million children
aged 0 to 14 who are living with
HIV, only 43 per cent receive ART
– far lower than the percentage
for mothers. In 2016, fewer than
half of all infants born to mothers
with HIV were tested by their
second month of life, making it
difficult to identify those born
with HIV and those who acquired
the virus from breastfeeding.
Without this information, it is
harder to link them to life-saving
treatment.

In 2017, ART coverage for children
and pregnant women in humanitarian
situations also increased substantially. Many of them benefited from
UNICEF’s leadership in scaling up
implementation of Option B+, a
protocol in which all pregnant women
are tested for HIV and, if positive, are
started on ART.

And even as the international
community continues supporting
prevention and treatment for
young children, many who
survive into adolescence
– especially the most
disadvantaged and marginalized
young people – face heightened
risks of HIV infection.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Ensured continued
ART for more than
40,000 children
and more than
46,000 pregnant
women in
humanitarian
situations.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
HIV AND AIDS
#WorldAIDSDay

Every hour, 18 children are
infected with HIV. This was one
of the alarming figures showcased
as UNICEF joined partners
to mark World AIDS Day,
1 December 2017. In a statistical
update, UNICEF showed that
accelerated action was needed to
meet targets for eliminating HIV
transmission in children, reducing
new infections in adolescent
girls and young women, and
increasing HIV treatment in
children and adolescents living
with HIV.
27

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: HIV and AIDS
UNICEF worked on a range of
HIV and AIDS initiatives with
partners in 2017.
In Indonesia, for example, an HIV
programme approach supported
by the Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria,
and piloted by UNICEF, expanded to three additional cities
with a focus on key populations
of adolescents and young
people. In Lesotho, UNICEF
and partners including the
Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS
Foundation supported training
for 300 health-care workers; the
training was aimed at scaling up
infant feeding guidance to help
improve HIV outcomes.
And the All In to End Adolescent
AIDS initiative – spearheaded by
UNICEF and UNAIDS – helped
countries such as Namibia
to better define adolescent
indicators in their strategic plans
to fight HIV and AIDS.
UNICEF and the United States
President’s Emergency Plan
for AIDS Relief are working to
achieve a generation free of HIV
and AIDS through the Stay Free
Partnership. This effort aims to
meet the global target of fewer
than 100,000 new infections per
year among adolescent girls and
young women by 2020.
Meanwhile, UNICEF and the
United States Agency for
International Development
are working together to
generate evidence supporting
the integration of paediatric
HIV testing and treatment into
maternal, newborn and child
health services.

28

Focus on West and Central Africa
In 2017, UNICEF focused considerable attention on the regional gaps
that belie the global good news
about reduced vertical transmission
of HIV. West and Central Africa,
where early infant diagnosis and
access to effective retroviral regimens lag behind global trends, is
one such region.
The African Union Summit endorsed
a UNICEF-supported ‘catch-up
plan’ for the region in July 2017,
with the goal of providing an
additional 120,000 children with
effective ART. Twelve countries
(Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon,
the Central African Republic, Côte
d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Guinea, Liberia, Mali,
Nigeria, Senegal and Sierra Leone)
have since adapted the initiative to
develop national catch-up plans.
UNICEF also advocated for other
priorities in the region – including
closing the gaps in infant HIV testing
and increasing entry points for testing children outside of programmes
designed for the prevention of
mother-to-child transmission of HIV.

‘Super-fast track’ for young
people
As HIV prevention and treatment
improve, young children are
living longer and surviving into
adolescence. As a result, an
estimated 2.1 million adolescents
aged 10 to 19 were living with HIV
worldwide in 2016 – 15 per cent
more than in 2010. Yet in 2016, only
one third of this cohort had access
to ART.
Moreover, an estimated 260,000
adolescents between the ages of
15 and 19 were newly infected with
HIV worldwide in 2016. Almost three
quarters of those new infections
were in sub-Saharan Africa, where
7 in 10 infections occurred among
adolescent girls.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

In 2017, UNICEF ramped up efforts
to achieve the ‘super-fast-track’
targets for young people that it had
set jointly with UNAIDS in 2015. The
two agencies mapped the landscape
of adolescent HIV prevention and
care across 35 countries. The results
of the assessment are expected to
help partner governments improve
policy, strengthen services and mobilize resources for adolescent HIV
prevention, diagnosis and treatment.

Safeguards for adolescents at risk
The heightened vulnerability of
adolescent girls to HIV is evident
not just in sub-Saharan Africa but
in every region. In 2017, UNICEF
advocated for more social protection
programmes to safeguard adolescent
girls and young women at risk
of HIV and AIDS. Many of these
programmes provide cash transfers,
which have been shown to lower HIV
risk and vulnerability among adolescents – particularly girls.
Globally, the annual number of
AIDS-related deaths among adolescents decreased by just 5 per cent
between 2010 and 2016. Wide variations can be found across regions,
but such global trends point to the
need for UNICEF and its partners to
do more, and quickly.
Otherwise, there will likely be
little change in the current ranking
of AIDS as the leading cause of
deaths among adolescents in Africa
and the second most common
cause of death among adolescents
worldwide.

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

HIV AND AIDS

HIV in emergencies
With another vulnerable population in mind,
UNICEF has worked to ensure that HIV
programmes continue to reach and serve
people living with HIV or at risk of infection
in times of crisis.
Antiretroviral coverage for pregnant women
in humanitarian situations increased in 2017.
In camps for internally displaced people and
their host communities in Chad, 98 per cent
of pregnant women with HIV received ART.
In Malawi and Zimbabwe, the integration of
HIV testing into services provided at nutrition
centres resulted in all children with severe
acute malnutrition being tested for HIV. Of
those found to be living with HIV in Malawi,
90 per cent were initiated on ART. The lessons learned from this experience have been
adapted in other parts of the subregion.

@C4D in 2017

Communication for development in Brazil
Brazil has seen an alarming rise in the rate of HIV
infection among young people between the ages
of 15 to 24. In response, UNICEF has worked in
collaboration with the MAC AIDS Fund – and in
partnership with local, state and national institutions,
NGOs and community networks – on a project known
as Viva Melhor Sabendo Jovem (Youth Aware). The
project uses mobile health units to bring essential
services – including HIV testing and counselling – to
populations that are vulnerable to HIV infection.
For young people living with HIV, the mobile units
also promote engagement with the health system.
Indications are that the project has increased HIV
testing and ART initiation rates among adolescents.

BELOW: An adolescent boy shows his support for stopping AIDS in front of a display booth set up by the National AIDS Programme
at the Taung Pyone Festival in Myanmar’s Mandalay Region.
© UNICEF/UN059872/Zar Mon

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

29

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Workers make concrete fittings for latrines at the Balukhali refugee settlement
in Cox’s Bazaar, Bangladesh, where hundreds of thousands of Rohingya people
arrived after escaping violence in neighbouring Myanmar in 2017. Expanding
the provision of safe water, sanitation and improved hygiene for Rohingya and
host community children has been UNICEF’s top priority in the border region,
amid concerns about possible outbreaks of diarrhoea and other waterborne
diseases. UNICEF and partners have also focused on providing Rohingya
children and young people with early learning and non-formal basic education
– as well as supporting young refugees who have been traumatized by conflict,
and addressing issues of gender-based violence.
© UNICEF/UN0143111/LeMoyne

30

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

Water, Sanitation
and Hygiene
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Reached 45 million
people with
improved water
supplies.

Beyond basic services
According to the latest available
data, 2.2 billion people do not have
access to safely managed drinking
water as defined by the SDGs. That’s
nearly a third of the global population
unable to access water from a local
source that is readily available and
free of contamination. An even larger
number of people – 61 per cent of
the world’s population – lack safely
managed sanitation services.

Delivered
improved
sanitation for
22 million people.

UNICEF took up the challenge
squarely in 2017, expanding its water,
sanitation and hygiene programming
to exceed US$1 billion in expenditures for the first time. The task now
is to develop strategies that prevent
slippage for those already on the
ladder of WASH progress, while
enabling those on the bottom rungs
to move up quickly – reaching and
surpassing the level of basic services.

This call for ‘safely managed’ services
raises the bar for the international
community. Beyond providing basic
access, development agencies are
now expected to address both the
quality and sustainability of the
services.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Helped 50,000
communities
become open
defecation free.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
WATER, SANITATION
AND HYGIENE
#WorldWaterDay

UNICEF sounded the alarm about
water scarcity in its 2017 report,
Thirsting for a Future: Water and
children in a changing climate.
The report showed that one
in four children will live with
water shortages by 2040, based
on current trends. It examined
the risks children face because
of depleted water sources, how
climate change will intensify those
risks and how the poorest children
bear the brunt of water scarcity.
31

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
WATER, SANITATION
AND HYGIENE
#ClimateComic

A half-tree, half-human
superhero with powers to save
the planet captured the minds
and imaginations of about
21,000 voters from 162 countries
to win the inaugural UNICEF
Climate Comic Contest, which
launched in October 2017.
Sathviga ‘Sona’ Sridhar, age 21,
an artist from Chennai, India,
created the winning superhero,
TRé, and wrote a comic book
for release on Earth Day 2018.
Sridhar’s work was chosen from
entries submitted to the contest
by nearly 2,900 young artists in
99 countries.

WASH in emergencies
The scale and complexity of
emergency situations continued
to present impediments in this
sector in 2017, with restrictions on
humanitarian access exacerbating
the scale of need.
Nonetheless, UNICEF and partners
reached more people than ever
before with emergency WASH
interventions, including more than
32 million provided with safe water,
9 million with improved sanitation
and 28 million with hygiene promotion. More than half of all WASH
spending by UNICEF in 2017 went to
emergencies.
UNICEF and partners implemented
large-scale responses in several
ongoing crises, including those in
the Syrian Arab Republic and Yemen,
and in Eastern and Southern Africa.
UNICEF also provided life-saving
WASH support in response to cholera
in Somalia, floods in Sierra Leone
and the Rohingya refugee crisis in
Bangladesh.

Building climate resilience
At the country level, UNICEF strongly
promoted climate-resilient WASH
programming in 2017 with advocacy,
guidance materials and technical
assistance. As a result, various
government partners are integrating
climate-resilience principles into their
national policies and emergency
preparedness planning.
Technologies such as drought-resistant
deep boreholes and flood-resistant
toilets are also becoming more
common. Solar pumping systems are
used increasingly in many countries,
replacing diesel-powered pumps
to provide piped water to off-grid
communities.
UNICEF has worked in several
countries – such as Ethiopia, Liberia
and Somalia – to help address WASH
needs arising from urbanization. In
Zimbabwe, UNICEF supports largescale water projects that focus on
reaching poor urban and peri-urban
households. In Mongolia, UNICEF
advocacy and technical support have
led to approval of a new water-tariff
system benefiting the urban poor.

@C4D in 2017

Communication for development in Morocco
In three rural communities in Morocco, UNICEF provided support for
more than 100 WASH information sessions in 2017. The sessions aimed
to positively change behaviour in waste management, handwashing and
menstrual hygiene. More than 4,000 students and school staff members
in the communities also benefited from upgraded WASH infrastructure
in their schools, complementing the hygiene and environmental
awareness campaign. Similar campaigns were activated in Bhutan,
Madagascar, the Philippines and the Pacific islands.

32

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE

Mercia, a young mother, checks that her children are washing their hands properly outside their
home in Nili District, central Afghanistan. Nili was declared the country’s first open-defecationfree district in November 2017. People in its towns and villages had used the ‘community-led
total sanitation’ approach to identify open areas that were used as toilets – and to encourage
families without toilets to build latrines. Implemented properly, this approach can lead to entire
communities giving up open defecation in a matter of months, contributing to a healthier
environment for everyone. In 2017, UNICEF helped hundreds of local Afghan communities
become certified as open-defecation-free.
© UNICEF/UN0142769/Didari

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

33

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
WATER, SANITATION
AND HYGIENE
#MenstrualHygieneDay

UNICEF marked World Menstrual
Hygiene Day, 28 May 2017,
with continued efforts to raise
awareness about the challenges
that women and girls face because
of menstruation. In much of the
world, girls enter puberty without
understanding what is happening
to their bodies. Many do not attend
school during their periods, and
their educational achievement
suffers. In response, UNICEF
and partners have researched
and developed a package of
communication materials to teach
girls and boys – and their teachers
and parents – the facts about
menstruation. This initiative is
a component of the Wins4Girls
project funded by the Government
of Canada.

WASH in schools
To date, the only continuous source
of global data on WASH facilities
in schools has been the UNICEF
annual reporting system, which
shows the scale of work that
remains to be done.
Across all reporting countries,
just 60 per cent of schools supply
adequate water and sanitation for
their students. Furthermore, there
is a persistent gender gap in school
sanitation coverage. Millions of girls
lack access to adequate menstrual
hygiene supplies and facilities – an
affront to their dignity, safety and
empowerment.
UNICEF works through health and
education systems to help bridge
this gap. In 2017, UNICEF-supported
WASH programmes in schools in
44 countries – twice as many countries as in 2014 – included information
on menstrual hygiene management.
In Indonesia, for example, a
comprehensive menstrual health
and hygiene package is now fully
institutionalized within the national
School Health Programme, with
relevant material incorporated into
teacher-training curricula.
Another initiative, the UNICEFdesigned Three Star Approach to
WASH in schools is a model for
cost-effective and equitable programming, with a focus on group
handwashing to stimulate behavioural
change. In 2017, the Three Star
Approach launched in Guinea-Bissau
and South Sudan, and expanded to
Nepal, Pakistan, Uganda and other
countries. With UNICEF support,
the approach is being replicated in
Guangxi Province, China, and has
been endorsed by Jordan’s Ministry
of Education.

Meeting SDG targets
An estimated 892 million people
are still practicing open defecation,
exposing their communities to
the risk of disease and ill health.
Approximately 90 per cent of them
live in 26 high-burden countries –
defined as countries that have either
more than 5 million people or more
than 50 per cent of the population
defecating in the open.
Much more needs to be done to
meet the SDG target of ending open
defecation by 2030. That is why
UNICEF has developed the Game
Plan to End Open Defecation, a
framework to guide its work on this
issue with national government and
other partners – and to reach ‘the
furthest behind first.’
On this issue and many more involving WASH services, UNICEF has built
on the momentum gained during the
era of the Millennium Development
Goals. However, progress will need
to be accelerated to achieve the
ambitious SDGs on water and sanitation. Even where trends are positive,
quality and sustainability must be
maintained to avoid any backsliding.
That effort will require considerable
resources.
UNICEF and partners will accompany
countries and communities on this
journey, deploying evidence and
experience from around the world
and developing innovative, successful
WASH solutions to benefit every child.

RIGHT : Hinda Hussain Johal, 21, fills
containers with clean water from a tank
supplied by UNICEF and ECHO, the
European humanitarian aid agency, at a
camp for internally displaced people in
Galkayo, Somalia.
© UNICEF/UN061116/Knowles-Coursin	

34

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

WATER, SANITATION AND HYGIENE

@UNICEF partnerships in 2017: Water, sanitation and hygiene
UNICEF’s WASH teams rely on the
support of local public and private
partnerships to achieve access to
safe water and improved sanitation
for all – including girls and women,
people with disabilities and the poor.
The Government of Sweden is the
leading multi-year contributor to
UNICEF’s global thematic fund for
WASH, which benefits 81 countries
and seven regions. Through this
commitment, Sweden helped
UNICEF provide 50 million people
with improved water supplies and
more than 40 million with improved
sanitation in 2017. Swedish support
was also critical to the delivery of

emergency water supplies in more
than 100 countries.
Also in 2017, in a signal of
South-South cooperation, the
Government of Botswana contributed US$100,000 to support
the WASH and nutrition clusters
operating under the Somalia
Humanitarian Plan.
In the private philanthropic sector,
Cartier Philanthropy continued the
global partnership it commenced
with UNICEF in 2014, supporting
programmes in China, India and
Madagascar. The partnership provides children and young people

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

with access to safe drinking water
and sanitation, as well as quality
education and programmes in
disaster risk reduction.
UNICEF’s global cause-related
marketing campaign with the
household cleaning brand
Domestos raised funds for
sanitation programmes for a sixth
consecutive year in 2017. Since
2012, a partnership comprising
Domestos, Unilever and UNICEF
has helped more than 10 million
people gain access to cleaner and
safer toilet facilities.

35

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

In Ain Issa camp, north-eastern Syrian Arab Republic, a UNICEF nutritionist screens
children for malnutrition by measuring their upper arm circumference. Most of the
internally displaced families in the camp fled unrelenting violence in Ar-Raqqa city,
50 kilometres to the south. UNICEF and partners scaled up their response to meet
basic needs at Ain Issa in 2017 by trucking safe drinking water daily to families in
the camp and its surrounding communities, and distributing life-saving nutrition
supplies and micronutrients for children. In addition, UNICEF has regularly
distributed hygiene supplies and set up latrines and showers in the camp.
© UNICEF/UN069819/Souleiman

36

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Nutrition
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Led nutrition
programmes in
120 countries,
investing
US$665 million to
deliver services
that prevent and
treat malnutrition
in all its forms.

Nutrition as a global priority
Well-nourished children are the
foundation of thriving communities
and a more sustainable and
prosperous future – the end goal of
UNICEF’s constant drive to improve
maternal and child nutrition, and make
nutritional support more equitable.
In every region, nations struggle to
guarantee nutritious, age-appropriate
and safe diets for all children.
Despite impressive progress made
over the years, the lives of 50.5
million children under age 5 are at
risk from acute malnutrition, and
another 150.8 million are chronically
undernourished or stunted.

Treated more than
4 million children
for severe acute
malnutrition.

Supplied
553 million
vitamin A capsules
for children
in 58 priority
countries.

children is now on the rise, raising
serious public health concerns.
To reach children whose health and
development are compromised
because they do not have nutritious
diets – and to achieve the nutrition
targets in the SDGs – UNICEF
and partners are scaling up evidence-based interventions to prevent
malnutrition among the children at
greatest risk. They are also providing
timely treatment for severe acute
malnutrition and expanding nutrition
programmes for adolescents and
women.

Many countries are facing a devastating triple burden of malnutrition that
comprises stunting and wasting; vitamin and micronutrient deficiencies;
and overweight and obesity. Some
42 million children are overweight in
rich and poor countries alike. In Africa
and Asia, the number of overweight
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
NUTRITION
#WBW2017

Breastfeeding benefits babies
and mothers, but it also has the
power to improve a country’s
prosperity through lower healthcare costs and stronger, more
able workforces. During World
Breastfeeding Week 2017, the
Global Breastfeeding Collective, coled by UNICEF, called for greater
investment in breastfeeding. The
goal: to increase the global rate of
exclusive breastfeeding among
children under 6 months of age to
at least 50 per cent by 2025.

37

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
NUTRITION
#EatPlayLove

UNICEF and partners highlighted
three ingredients of good
parenting – proper nutrition,
the stimulation that comes from
activities such as play, and the
gift of love – in early childhood
development campaigns around
the world during 2017. Through
these activities, UNICEF
consistently emphasized the
importance of positive parenting,
especially in early childhood.

Scaled-up programmes
In 2017, the reach of UNICEF programmes to improve nutrition for
infants, children, adolescents and
women was growing around the world.
UNICEF supported the scale-up of
treatment and care for children with
severe acute malnutrition in 67 countries. With UNICEF support, more
children were treated for severe acute
malnutrition than ever before: 4 million
in 2017, up from 2.7 million in 2014.
ABOVE: UNICEF Nutrition Officer
Marietta Mounkouro holds an infant in
Yorosso District, Sikasso Region, Mali.
Rates of stunting have declined sharply in
the district, where ‘role model mothers’
in a community-based programme
encourage nutrition practices such as
exclusive breastfeeding for the first six
months of a baby’s life.
© UNICEF/UN0119030/Sokhin

38

UNICEF made progress with infant and
young child feeding programmes, as
well. The number of countries providing
pregnant women and caregivers of
young children with counselling on optimal nutrition rose to 35 in 2017, up from
14 in 2014. In UNICEF-assisted areas
of the United Republic of Tanzania, the
proportion of villages in which trained
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

community health workers provided
such counselling rose from 15 per cent
in 2016 to 64 per cent in 2017.
Supported by the Government of
Canada and Nutrition International,
UNICEF is the world’s leading provider
of vitamin A. In 2017, UNICEF procured
approximately 553 million vitamin A
treatments for children in 58 priority
countries. As a result, 250 million
children received annual supplements
providing them with critical protection
against the consequences of vitamin
A deficiency, which can compromise
immunity, especially in young children.
Also in 2017, the world moved a step
closer to eliminating iodine deficiency,
another threat to child health and
cognitive development. More than
86 percent of households globally
now consume iodized salt.

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

NUTRITION

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Nutrition
Partnerships contributed
extensively to UNICEF’s work on
improving child nutrition in 2017.
As a key financial and technical partner for UNICEF, the United Kingdom
has supported UNICEF’s nutrition
interventions in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo and Yemen,
two countries that experienced
severe humanitarian crises in 2017.
Thanks to the increased commitment of the German Federal
Foreign Office, which doubled its
support between 2016 and 2017,
UNICEF received critical funding for
its emergency nutrition and child
protection efforts in conflict-affected north-eastern Nigeria – and
for malnutrition treatment in famine-stricken areas of South Sudan.

Tackling anaemia
In addition, UNICEF has renewed its
focus on good nutrition in the second
decade of life, which represents
a critical part of the organization’s
Gender Action Plan.
From 2016 to 2017, the number of
countries with a specified approach
to tackling anaemia in adolescent
girls rose from 41 to 56. The number
of countries with a policy or plan
for reducing anaemia in women of
reproductive age increased from
79 to 89.
UNICEF supports iron and folic acid
supplementation in all of these
countries. Where the consumption
of industrially milled grains is high, it
also supports grain fortification with
iron, folic acid and other nutrients.

As the largest donor to UNICEF’s
global thematic fund for humanitarian action, the Netherlands
ensured that the supply chain of
ready-to-use therapeutic food
was unbroken so that more than
14,000 children in Mali could
be treated for severe acute
malnutrition. And the Dutch
National Committee for UNICEF
joined forces with health and
consumer organizations to
advocate for better regulation
and less marketing of unhealthy
foods to children.
Programmes to improve the
health and nutrition of pregnant
women and newborn children
saw fresh support from corporate donors, as well.

Takeda Pharmaceutical Company
Ltd, for example, embarked on
a five-year commitment in 2017
to help UNICEF reach 1.3 million
mothers and their children in the
first 1,000 days of life in Benin,
Madagascar and Rwanda. Funded
with 1 billion Japanese yen, the
initiative will focus on improving
the health and nutrition of
pregnant women and newborn
children by strengthening the
health workforce, improving
access to services in remote
areas and building awareness in
local communities.
In addition, the IKEA Foundation
committed to addressing
malnutrition in Aceh as part of a
new partnership with UNICEF in
Indonesia.

Nutrition in humanitarian
emergencies
Conflict, disasters, displacement
and famine ravaged communities in
Somalia, South Sudan, Yemen and
other countries in 2017. Throughout
the year, UNICEF worked in close
collaboration with governments and
partners to safeguard women’s and
children’s nutrition in 66 countries
experiencing emergencies. As leader
of the Global Nutrition Cluster,
UNICEF coordinated nutrition
responses that reached more than
971 million people in emergencies
around the world.
Challenges such as mass migration
and the impact of climate change
further complicated the delivery of
nutrition services. But UNICEF anticipated and responded to nutritional
needs in countries affected by crisis.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

39

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@C4D in 2017

Communication
for development in
Cameroon
In Cameroon, 32 per cent of
children under age 5 suffer from
stunting. In regions where the
problem is acute, the proportion
rises to more than 50 per cent.
Yet breastfeeding mothers of
malnourished children are often
stigmatized, possibly preventing
them from seeking health care
and therapeutic treatment. In
2017, to combat the stigma,
UNICEF Cameroon developed a
communication for development
strategy on empowering
mothers to identify and
address malnutrition. UNICEF
also encouraged community
engagement and home visits
from health workers.

For example, when an influx of
Rohingya refugees from northern
Myanmar arrived in Bangladesh,
UNICEF and the Government of
Bangladesh mobilized the screening
of more than 164,000 children
for acute malnutrition. During the
week-long campaign, 4,000 children
were diagnosed with severe acute
malnutrition, and 95 per cent of
them were admitted for life-saving
treatment and care. Health teams
tracked supplies and service delivery
in real time using mobile phones.
And because emergencies can strike
in any place at any time, UNICEF
invests resources and expertise in
helping governments prepare for
crisis. By the end of 2017, some
65 countries had incorporated an
emergency risk management strategy into their nutrition plan or policy.

Partnerships and coordination
Nutrition challenges remain for children and young people worldwide as
the scale and complexity of nutrition
emergencies continue to increase.
As an organization with a global,
regional and local presence, UNICEF
has a network of partnerships
contributing financial resources –
along with expertise and capacity
– to make a difference in nutrition
for infants, children, adolescents and
women.
UNICEF is an active member
of 12 global nutrition initiatives.
Through the No Wasted Lives
coalition, for example, it has helped
establish global research priorities in
prevention and treatment of acute

40

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

malnutrition. UNICEF also plays
a leading role in the Scaling Up
Nutrition (SUN) movement, which
supports national efforts to end
malnutrition. The SUN movement
has grown from 48 participating
countries in 2014 to 60 countries
in 2017.
With the launch of the Global
Breastfeeding Collective, a partnership led by UNICEF and the World
Health Organization, UNICEF has
also helped define an investment
case for breastfeeding. UNICEF’s
strategic advocacy for child nutrition
and breastfeeding contributed to an
increase in the number of countries
reporting exclusive breastfeeding
rates above 50 per cent – from 27 in
2014 to 35 in 2017.

Building the evidence base
Knowledge is an essential part
of UNICEF’s work in nutrition,
and UNICEF is a vital partner in
establishing a global evidence base
in this sector. In 2017, the organization continued helping countries
strengthen their national policies and
frameworks for maternal and child
nutrition. With support from UNICEF,
94 countries had nutrition sector
plans in 2017, up from 22 in 2014.
The path to sustainable nutrition
will be contingent upon the effectiveness of these partnerships and
multi-sectoral actions – particularly in
the links between food systems and
health, education, water and sanitation, and social protection systems.
Strengthening these links has never
been more urgent.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

NUTRITION

Health workers check a girl during the monthly nutrition screening at a village
health post in Nusa Tenggara Timur Province, Indonesia. Moderate and severe acute
malnutrition are widespread among young children in Indonesia, and stunting is
common. In partnership with the NGO Action Against Hunger, UNICEF has worked
with the country’s Ministry of Health to introduce an approach known as Community
Based Management of Acute Malnutrition. The approach is designed to maximize
successful interventions on behalf of children at risk – with a focus on mobilizing
communities to see that children suffering from severe acute malnutrition are
identiﬁed and referred for treatment.
© UNICEF/UN0200195/van Oorsouw

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

41

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Maryam, age 13, waits for an English lesson to begin at a non-formal learning centre
run by the British Council, a UNICEF partner, in Skaramagas, Greece. At a time of
increasing distress for children and young people on the move in 2017, UNICEF
supported the Greek Government’s efforts to better monitor the situation of refugee
and migrant children – including unaccompanied children – and provide them with
stronger protection. Funding from the European Commission’s Rights, Equality and
Citizenship Programme supported these efforts.
© UNICEF/UN070439/d’Aki

42

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

Education
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Supplied more
than 12.5 million
children and
nearly 250,000
classrooms with
learning materials.

Equity in education
The international community
that ushered in the ambitious
SDG targets for 2030 made a
commitment to ‘inclusive and
equitable quality education and
lifelong learning opportunities
for all.’
In that spirit, UNICEF and partners
continued to make equity in
education a priority in 2017. But outof-school children and young people
were still disproportionately from
the most marginalized and excluded
populations. Marginalization begins
early; roughly half of preschool-age
children worldwide are not enrolled
in early childhood education.

Helped raise the
proportion of the
poorest primary
school-age children
attending school to
79 per cent.

remote areas; are from poor families
or communities affected by conflict;
or are girls. When these children do
make it to school, their learning is
often interrupted and the quality of
their education is usually low.
For many of those whose lives
would be most transformed by
learning opportunities, education
remains out of reach.

Even with 79 per cent of children
from the poorest households now
attending primary school, access to
quality education is far from equitable
for those who have disabilities; live in

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Reached
8.8 million children
with educational
support in
humanitarian
situations.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
EDUCATION
#WorldRefugeeDay

On the eve of World Refugee
Day 2017, Muzoon Almellehan
joined the ranks of UNICEF’s
Goodwill Ambassadors. The young
education advocate began working
with UNICEF as a 13-year-old
in the Za’atari camp for Syrian
refugees. Throughout 2017, she
was an energetic spokesperson
for education in emergencies and
for uprooted children. At the G20
summit in Hamburg, Germany,
Muzoon met with Chancellor
Angela Merkel and other leaders,
urging them to support education
for migrant and refugee children.

43

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
EDUCATION
#OutofSchool

With the help of Goodwill
Ambassadors Muzoon Almellehan
and Priyanka Chopra, UNICEF
focused on education for children in
emergencies during the September
2017 meetings of the United Nations
General Assembly. In Education
Uprooted, an advocacy brief,
UNICEF asserted that children
have a right to education whether
they are refugees, migrants or
internally displaced. In a media
event involving 27 buses circling
Manhattan, UNICEF highlighted
the needs of the 27 million out-ofschool children in 24 conflict zones.

Focus on learning
The good news is that around the
world, more children than ever
before (an estimated 160 million
more than a decade ago) are going
to school and staying in school.
However, too many of these children
are still not getting what they
came to school for, and what their
parents are counting on schools to
deliver – the knowledge, skills and
work habits necessary for lifelong
success.
Around 250 million children of
primary school age lack basic literacy
or numeracy. And yet, an estimated
1 billion young people will enter
the workforce in the next decade.
Only 1 in 10 of them, in low-income
countries, is likely to have the skills
to succeed in the global economy.
For adolescent girls, specific barriers
to learning include gender-based

.

RIGHT: Atila Komaromi, born in 1999
with a disability, beams at the front of
his 7th grade classroom in Becej, Serbia.
UNICEF Serbia works to develop inclusive
education policies and realize the right of
all children to fulfil their potential.
© UNICEF/UN067183/Vas

44

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

violence, child marriage and
sociocultural bias. Such barriers can
adversely affect girls’ self-confidence
and their ability to finish school and
make the transition from education
to employment.
UNICEF is working to support the
many governments that have signalled their commitment to universal
access to education. For these
governments, education policies
must be designed to ensure that all
children have quality learning opportunities providing them with the tools
they need to fulfil their potential.

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

EDUCATION

The second decade
UNICEF seeks to help all children
maintain access to education well
into their second decade – and to
support girls and boys who have
never entered school, or have
dropped out or fallen behind.
In 2017, UNICEF launched a framework
for life-skills and citizenship education.
The aim of the framework is to
help governments develop relevant
programmes anchored in national

education and training systems for all
children and adolescents.
UNICEF has also included a module
in its standard household survey that
will directly assess the literacy and
numeracy skills of children between the
ages of 7 and 14. Data from the survey
should be useful in identifying inequities
and improving services for all children,
including those who are out of school.

@UNICEF partnerships in 2017: Education
In the education sector, the
partnership between UNICEF and
the European Union remained
strong and multifaceted in 2017.
Since 2012, UNICEF’s cooperative
efforts with the DirectorateGeneral for ECHO, the European
humanitarian aid agency, have
provided emergency education
reaching more than 2.5 million
refugee and displaced children
and young people – including
young refugees in Greece. In
Turkey, UNICEF is implementing
the largest ECHO-funded
programme on education in
emergencies through cash
transfers.

of the Education Above All
Foundation – remained a strong
UNICEF partner in providing
access to quality learning for
out-of-school children of primary
school age. And UNICEF worked
with the Global Partnership for
Education and the United Nations
Girls’ Education Initiative to help
girls complete primary schooling
and make a safe transition to
secondary schooling in four
sub-Saharan African countries.

inclusion of children with autism
in formal schooling – gave UNICEF
an opportunity to advocate
for the integration of children
with other disabilities as well.
In Jordan, UNICEF developed
several education programme
goals for 2018–2022, including
the expansion of Innovation
Labs that allow more than
34,000 adolescents (56 per cent of
them girls) to participate in a social
innovation curriculum.

In the Middle East and North
Africa, nearly 22 million children
are either out of school or at risk
of dropping out. In 2017, UNICEF
helped governments in the region
determine how many children are
out of school, what the barriers
are and what effect existing
policies are having on access to
quality education.

The Government of the United
Arab Emirates and the philanthropic organization Dubai Cares
hosted a joint Early Childhood
Development Technical Workshop
in March 2017. The workshop was
an opportunity to envision a new
era for children, with advances in
the science and evidence behind
cognitive brain development. It
featured an important discussion
about how to expand political
will and investments in support
of early childhood programmes,
policies and interventions.

In the corporate sector, the LEGO
Group and LEGO Foundation have
partnered with UNICEF since
2015 to promote the importance
of learning through play in
children’s early years. In 2017, the
partnership supported a major
policy shift in South Africa: the
inclusion of play-based learning
as a fundamental principle in the
country’s new early childhood
development policy.

In a wide array of countries,
Educate a Child – a programme

In Oman, a new Autism Action
Strategy – intended to facilitate the

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

45

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

ABOVE: Girls and boys smile in
front of a chalkboard at a local
elementary school in Nalaikh
District, Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
© UNICEF/UN062313/Batbaatar

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Education

Also thanks to LEGO, play boxes were distributed to refugee children
to alleviate trauma and support learning. And because the LEGO
Group aims to ensure safety for children both online and offline, the
company’s partnership with UNICEF included the global launch of a
new child-safeguarding toolkit for the toy industry.
UNICEF and another partner, the Akelius Foundation, joined forces
in 2017 to develop an innovative language-learning tool for children
on the move, as well as out-of-school children in humanitarian and
multilingual contexts. Meanwhile, UNICEF and the global financial
company ING continued a joint, multi-year initiative to equip young
people with the knowledge and skills they need to become more
socially and financially independent.

46

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

EDUCATION

New and traditional approaches
Technology and globalization continue
to bring unprecedented opportunities
and progress in the education sector.
Learning materials beyond the traditional
textbook, such as computers, tablets
and smart boards, have the power to
shape the way children interact with the
world.
But unless these technologies are
accessible and adapted to the needs of
the most disadvantaged learners – and
unless teachers are trained to use
them – they do not advance the goal of
universal quality education.
Lack of access compounds disadvantages faced by excluded children and
young people in light of the demand
for new skills and flexibility in the 21st
century workplace. Some parts of the
world, and some groups of children
even in the richest countries, risk being
left behind.
In 2017, UNICEF worked with at least
54 countries to develop educational
materials using both traditional and
high-tech approaches. In Nicaragua, for
example, indigenous educators were
trained in creating such materials from
locally available natural resources.
In Uganda, a tablet-based numeracy
programme for out-of-school children
offered the promise of improved learning outcomes.

Education in emergencies
A tested and reliable presence in providing education in emergencies, UNICEF
is increasingly working to bridge the
divide between humanitarian action and
longer-term development work in this
sector.
In 2017, the organization worked closely
with host governments to provide
more permanent education services
for refugees. Supported by UNICEF
and international partners, for instance,
Lebanon‘s Ministry of Education chose to
upgrade its national education system and
infrastructure to integrate refugee children
from the Syrian Arab Republic, rather than
creating separate schools in the camps
and informal settlements where refugee
families live.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
EDUCATION
#SuperDads

To mark Father’s Day 2017,
celebrity dads joined with dads
around the globe to shine a
spotlight on the importance
of fathers in the early years of
a child’s life. The Super Dads
initiative emphasized the
unique role played by fathers
and mothers alike in shaping
their babies’ brain development
for future success in education
and employment.

UNICEF also made its first disbursements from the US$170 million
Education Cannot Wait Fund, which
is expected to provide education for
3.7 million children in emergency settings – half of them girls.
Overall, more than 750 UNICEF education
staff in 155 countries worked to help
strengthen education systems and better
serve children and adolescents left behind
due to disability, conflict, displacement
and poverty in 2017. In each Country
Office, UNICEF made the investment
case for equity in education – joining
parents, teachers and others in support
of every child’s entry into school and
successful transition from primary to
secondary schooling.

@C4D in 2017

Communication for development in Jordan
With the influx of refugees from the neighbouring Syrian Arab Republic, overcrowding and tensions have affected school-age
children in refugee camps and community schools in Jordan. In 2017, UNICEF collaborated with 17 partners on a campaign
to reduce physical and verbal violence against schoolchildren. Introduced in the Za’atari refugee camp, the campaign was
rolled out in schools, homes and communities. The effort included activities such as youth clubs, sports, art and music, and
benefited 8,000 young people.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

47

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

In May 2017, demobilized child soldiers from the militia of a traditional chief eat
breakfast in a transit and orientation centre run by BNCE, the Catholic national
children’s bureau, and supported by UNICEF in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. Located in Kananga, capital of Western Kasai Province, the centre provides
opportunities for learning and skills development, among other services for children’s
rehabilitation and reintegration into their communities.
© UNICEF/UN064901/Dubourthoumieu

48

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

Child Protection
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Supported the
registration of
almost 16 million
births across
58 countries.

Leaving no one behind
The child protection sector is at a critical moment. Global commitments to
address protection issues have reached
an all-time high, not least because
of the integration of relevant targets
into the SDGs – which, in contrast to
the Millennium Development Goals,
address child protection issues directly.
UNICEF works to protect children
and young people from violence,
exploitation and harmful practices at
multiple levels – from strengthening
the capacity of front-line social workers and strengthening child protection
systems to building knowledge,
gathering evidence and developing
innovative solutions.
In 2017, protecting the most vulnerable – the estimated 535 million girls
and boys living in countries affected
by humanitarian crises – remained
UNICEF’s most resource-intensive
priority in this sector. It worked to
protect children affected by emergencies in 81 countries.

Reached approximately
3.6 million girls,
boys and women in
59 countries with risk
mitigation or direct
support services
addressing genderbased violence.

In the course of the year, UNICEF
supported the release and reintegration of approximately 12,000 children
from armed forces and groups in
16 countries. UNICEF and partners
also identified and registered
141,000 unaccompanied and
separated children in humanitarian
situations in 40 countries. More than
36,000 of them were placed in alternative care, and more than 19,000
were reunited with their families or
caregivers.
To address the trauma of
displacement and violence, UNICEF
and partners provided psychosocial
support – including child-friendly
spaces and community- and schoolbased interventions – for around
3.5 million children in 2017. And
UNICEF continued monitoring grave
rights violations against children in
countries such as the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, Nigeria,
South Sudan, the Syrian Arab
Republic and Yemen.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Helped identify and
register 141,000
unaccompanied and
separated children in
40 countries.
.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
CHILD PROTECTION
#ENDviolence

UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador
Priyanka Chopra has become a
powerful advocate for children
whose lives are affected by
violence. In May 2017, she
travelled to Zimbabwe to meet
with children who survived
sexual violence. In her personal
communication from the trip,
Chopra emphasized the urgent
need to end all forms of violence
against children.

49

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
CHILD PROTECTION
#AChildisAChild

Nearly 50 million children are
on the move throughout the
world, often driven from their
homes by conflict. For far too
many, leaving home brings
danger, detention, deprivation
and discrimination. In 2017,
UNICEF’s Children Uprooted
campaign reminded the world
that whether a child is a
migrant, a refugee or internally
displaced, a child is a child.

BELOW: Syrian children gather at a
temporary settlement in Lebanon, where
their families have brought them for
safety from the ongoing conflict in the
neighbouring Syrian Arab Republic.

Children on the move
Throughout 2017, migration and
displacement threatened to
overwhelm the capacity of the
international community and
refugee host countries. UNICEF
responded, in part, by fostering
common approaches and
multi-partner initiatives involving
refugees’ countries of origin,
transit and destination.
During the year, UNICEF helped at
least 78 countries support children
on the move, taking integrated
action in child protection, health
and education, social inclusion and
other sectors.
UNICEF helped strengthen
outreach and case management
systems for migrant and refugee
children in the Middle East and
Europe, as well. As a result, more
than 53,500 children, many unaccompanied or separated from their
families, received direct services.

© UNICEF/UN0161282/Thuentap

50

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Strengthening national systems
At a global level, UNICEF works
closely with partner governments to
strengthen national child protection
systems and, in particular, the role of
the social service workforce. By the
end of 2017, 142 countries reported
having strengthened national child protection systems; at least 50 countries
reported that their child protection
systems offered both preventive and
responsive services.
The number of countries with child
protection legislation that is consistent
with or better than international standards rose to 48 in 2017, a 45 per cent
increase since 2014. UNICEF facilitated improvements in the quality and
reach of the social service workforce
in 78 countries, a 30 per cent increase
over 2016.
The year also saw an increased
emphasis on the role of civil registration
in protecting children. In 2017, UNICEF
supported the registration of almost
16 million births in 58 countries and
partnered with governments in at least
33 countries to strengthen their civil
registration and vital statistics systems.

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

CHILD PROTECTION

Fighting child labour, FGM and
child marriage
UNICEF-supported interventions
reached 7.6 million children between
the ages of 5 and 17 who were
involved in child labour in 2017. At the
same time, UNICEF and the United
Nations Population Fund continued
their collaboration on two major
initiatives, the Global Programme
to Accelerate Action to End Child
Marriage and the Joint Programme
to Eliminate Female Genital
Mutilation (FGM).
During the year, nearly 870,000 girls
and women affected by FGM benefited from health, education, welfare
and legal services supported by
UNICEF. There was also progress on
the enforcement side, with approximately 325 arrests, 260 court cases
and 106 convictions in seven countries, compared with only 71 arrests
made in 2016.
In addition, UNICEF and partners
have reached more than 2 million
adolescent girls at risk of child marriage – including more than 940,000
in 2017 – with life skills and school

attendance support. And in a milestone vote supported by UNICEF in
June 2017, the United Nations Human
Rights Council adopted a resolution
to end child marriage in humanitarian
settings.

Ending violence against children
In the global policy arena, UNICEF
and partners have played an
unprecedented role – through the
#ENDviolence campaign and other
initiatives – in elevating the issue of
violence against children.
By the end of 2017, more than
90 countries had national policies
and action plans in place to address
such violence. Ninety-three countries were implementing measures
to prevent and respond to child
sexual abuse and exploitation. The
number of countries prohibiting
corporal punishment (including in
the home) rose to 53, with another
56 committed to achieving a legal
ban. And 61 per cent of countries
had adopted legal and policy
frameworks to address violence in
schools, compared with 37 per cent
in 2014.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
CHILD PROTECTION
#WorldRefugeeDay
#MigrantsDay

UNICEF and partners marked
World Refugee Day in June and
International Migrants Day in
December 2017. The observances
highlighted a six-point Agenda
for Action, which sets out ways to
protect and provide services for
children who have been uprooted
from their homes. The Agenda
for Action also offers a road map
for placing children at the heart
of the Global Compact for Safe,
Orderly and Regular Migration
and the Global Compact on
Refugees – two documents
expected to outline global,
coordinated action in support of
migrants and refugees.

LEFT: Seng, age 13, works on a
road repair project in Kachin State,
Myanmar, one of the many places
where UNICEF seeks to protect
child rights amid humanitarian
emergencies, chronic poverty,
discrimination and exploitation.
© UNICEF/UN061799/Brown

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

51

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
CHILD PROTECTION
#BTSLoveMyself

The K-pop group BTS was a
critical partner in UNICEF’s
efforts to draw attention to the
#ENDViolence initiative. The
BTS anti-violence campaign
Love Myself coincided with the
launch of the UNICEF report, A
Familiar Face: Violence in the lives
of children and adolescents, which
provided critical guidance on child
protection. The report presented
up-to-date statistics and analyses
regarding various forms of
violence in different settings, from
childhood through adolescence.

@C4D in 2017

Communication
for development in
Bangladesh
In Bangladesh, which has the
highest rate of child marriages
in South Asia, UNICEF and
partners activated a Raise the Beat
campaign in 2017 – encouraging
communities to resist and report
child marriage, while rallying to
protect the rights of girls. This
initiative uses public service
announcements, radio spots,
social media and television to
reach an audience of 50 million.
Some 260,000 young people,
including adolescents, have taken
part in related theatre productions.
Changes in the dimensions of child
marriage will be tracked in real
time throughout the campaign.

52

In nine countries with some of the
world’s highest rates of adolescent
homicide, UNICEF has used community-based programmes to prevent
armed violence.
Violence is also a threat to children
in the digital realm. Rapid digitalization, while bringing a host of
benefits, is increasingly exposing
children to exploitation and abuse.
In response, UNICEF has made
online child protection a priority. The
number of countries taking action to
prevent and respond to online child
sexual exploitation rose sharply from
17 in 2016 to 47 in 2017.

scaled up their support for reporting
and investigation of allegations, as
well as victim assistance, in 2017.
UNICEF also supported efforts by
the United Nations to strengthen
the global framework on sexual
exploitation, with 72 Member
States becoming parties to a voluntary compact that includes key
commitments to protect children.
The first United Nations Sexual
Exploitation and Abuse Victims’
Rights Advocate was appointed in
2017 to lead an integrated response
to this global issue across the
United Nations system.

Fighting sexual exploitation and
abuse
To strengthen protection against the
sexual exploitation and abuse of children and young people, 16 UNICEF
Country Offices in four regions

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Child protection
UNICEF collaborates on child protection with a range of international
partners, including the Global Partnership to End Violence against
Children, the Global Social Service Workforce Alliance, the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International
Organization for Migration. In 2017, UNICEF also continued to play a
part in the INSPIRE partnership to help achieve global SDG targets on
ending violence against children.
UNICEF advanced strategic partnerships for child protection in
humanitarian situations during the year, as well. This activity included
UNICEF’s leadership roles in the Alliance for Child Protection in
Humanitarian Action and the Call to Action on Protection from
Gender-based Violence in Emergencies, among other alliances.
Looking ahead, UNICEF is exploring innovations in the child protection
sector, which receives reliable, flexible thematic funding from the
Governments of Sweden, Norway and Spain, and various UNICEF
National Committees. This investment enables UNICEF to help countries
in all regions deliver strategic and direct child protection interventions
to marginalized children, their families and their communities.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

CHILD PROTECTION

Adolescent girls attend a Karate a class organized as part of a UNICEF-supported
programme in Giridih District, located in India’s Jharkhand state. The district has
one of the country’s highest rates of child marriage. UNICEF Jharkhand and the
Jago Foundation have launched a pilot programme to make 65 villages in Giridih
‘child marriage free’. Among other measures, the programme trains and empowers
adolescents, engages with religious and caste leaders, encourages the formation of village
child-protection committees and supports pledges by parents to end child marriage.

© UNICEF/UN061996/Vishwanathan

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

53

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

YEMEN

At the Bellafarendi Health Centre in Timbuktu, Mali, mothers wait for weekly checkins along with their children, who are being treated for malnutrition. The visits include
weight monitoring and sessions on good health and hygiene practices. The centre also
provides ready-to-use therapeutic food for the children – a necessity in an area where
the child nutrition situation is critical.
© UNICEF/UN0126763/Dicko

54

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Social Inclusion
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…
Supported
58 countries
in routinely
measuring and
reporting on child
poverty.

Impact of
multidimensional poverty
UNICEF has long emphasized the
need to reach the children who are
farthest behind fastest. Fighting
to pull every child out of extreme
poverty is a bellwether for the equity
agenda – and for progress towards
the SDGs.
In 2017, UNICEF and partners
reported that, beyond the 385 million
children who are identified as living
in extreme poverty, hundreds of
millions more are affected by other
factors constituting multidimensional
deprivation. Accounting for lack
of education, nutrition, health,
safe water, protection and shelter,
multidimensional poverty affects
689 million children.

$

Helped
governments
strengthen
social protection
systems and
reach 182 million
children with cash
transfers.

To help break the intergenerational
cycle of deprivation, UNICEF
and partners help governments
develop and implement policies to
systematically address child poverty
and exclusion. These programmes
emphasize social protection
and public spending on children
to improve essential services,
especially for the most vulnerable
populations.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Assisted
116 countries with
enabling children
and adolescents
to define local,
subnational
or national
development
priorities

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
SOCIAL INCLUSION
#EndChildPoverty

The Global Coalition to End Child
Poverty, co-chaired by UNICEF
and Save the Children, raises
awareness about children living
in poverty and supports global
and national action to alleviate
this problem. In 2017, UNICEF
partnered with the coalition on
a guide to help countries reach
the SDG targets on reducing child
poverty.

55

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Social inclusion

UNICEF’s social policy team works to develop and
strengthen partnerships at the country, regional and
global levels, stimulating dialogue and government
policies that guide legislative reforms and budgetary
allocations affecting children and families.
Expanding social protection for the most vulnerable
children – including those facing extreme poverty,
gender discrimination, disability or statelessness –
requires close cooperation with ministries of finance,
parliaments, the World Bank Group, the International
Labour Organization, the United Nations Development
Programme and the United Nations Department of
Economic and Social Affairs, among others.
In 2017, UNICEF supported the League of Arab States in
the preparation of the Arab Multidimensional Poverty
Report, which found that a quarter of children in the
11 countries studied live in acute poverty. The report’s
findings have raised governments’ awareness of the
prevalence of child poverty and how best to address it.
At the same time, UNICEF and the Governments
of Norway, Spain and Sweden continued their
strategic partnership to tackle poverty and promote
sustainable development focused on children’s
rights and needs. These countries’ contributions to

56

UNICEF’s global thematic fund for social inclusion
reflect confidence in UNICEF as an effective partner
and advocate.
The flexible, multi-year nature of global thematic
support allows UNICEF to focus on long-term
processes of policy, budgeting and programme
design – towards the goal of making a lasting
impact on the well-being of the most disadvantaged
children.In the private sector, UNICEF received a
US$3.5 million grant from the H&M Foundation
in 2017 to provide early childhood development
programmes for children with disabilities. UNICEF
has partnered with H&M since 2004 and the H&M
Foundation since 2014. Together, the company
and the foundation have contributed more than
US$40 million to UNICEF programmes.
Another partner, the global travel and tourism
technology provider Amadeus, is providing
aggregated travel data to UNICEF’s innovation team.
The goal: to develop an open-source platform using
real-time information in humanitarian situations.
In 2017, Amadeus also supported UNICEF’s World
Children’s Day activities, Children on the Move
campaign and Hurricane Irma response through its
media and communications channels.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

SOCIAL INCLUSION

LEFT: Ashraf, age 16, a member of the Adolescent Club near
Duaripara, Mirpur, in Bangladesh, sells vegetables and groceries – a
business he started with help from a conditional cash transfer project
supported by UNICEF.
© UNICEF/UN069629/Kiron

Social protection programmes
In particular, UNICEF has continued
working with countries to expand
the reach and impact of their socialprotection cash transfer programmes,
with special attention to marginalized
children. In 2017, more than
182 million children were covered by
ongoing cash transfer programmes,
an increase of 3 million over 2016.
Direct aid was especially valuable for
families in humanitarian emergencies
– including displaced households –
enabling them to weather the shock
of conflict or natural disaster. For
example, UNICEF partnered with the
World Bank in 2017 to deliver cash
transfers to more than 1.3 million
of the most vulnerable households
affected by the crisis in Yemen.
Other social-protection cash transfers
supported by UNICEF benefited
children with disabilities in Cambodia
and pregnant women in Nigeria and
Kenya – in the latter case, linking
financial assistance to prenatal care.

Public finance for children
In many countries, UNICEF’s work
is instrumental in addressing child
rights issues through public expenditure on essential social services
for the most vulnerable families. By
generating evidence on the effectiveness, efficiency and equity of public
spending, UNICEF and partners support the case for improved financing
for health, education, nutrition,
WASH and other services.
In Malawi, for example, advocacy
efforts by UNICEF and partners
contributed to a 23 per cent increase
in public spending across key social
sectors in 2017.
In Pakistan, UNICEF worked with
provincial authorities to plan and
budget WASH services by mapping
the districts with poor indicators. As
a result, Punjab Province launched
an initiative aimed at reaching an
additional 50 million people with
safe drinking water by mid-2018.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
SOCIAL INCLUSION
#GrowingUpOnline

Digital technology offers children
and young people tremendous
possibilities and perils. In its
flagship report, The State of the
World’s Children 2017: Children in a
digital world, UNICEF pointed out
that a lack of digital access has left
the 29  per cent of youth worldwide
who are not online – around
346 million individuals – even
further marginalized. The report
highlighted the benefits of digital
technology for disadvantaged
children, the gaps between digital
haves and have nots, and the risks
of real-world exploitation faced by
children and young people online.

At the global level, UNICEF and partners held an International Conference
on Social Protection in Contexts of
Fragility and Forced Displacement.
Participants focused on lessons
learned in using social protection
systems to meet the needs of
communities affected by crisis and
improve linkages between humanitarian action and development work.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

57

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
SOCIAL INCLUSION
#NarrowingtheGaps

Children who grow up in poverty
are nearly twice as likely to die
before age 5 as children whose
families have more resources. Most
of these children could be saved
with simple solutions. Narrowing
the Gaps: The power of investing
in the poorest children – a 2017
report updating UNICEF’s equity
agenda – showed that, on average,
every US$1 million invested in the
health of the poorest children saves
twice as many lives as equivalent
investments in their better-off peers.

Gender-responsive social
protection
Despite general progress towards
gender equality around the world,
the gender gap in human capital
development persists. The gap opens
in early childhood and widens as boys
and girls grow up. It is exacerbated
by exposure to humanitarian crises
and other shocks.
UNICEF helps countries address
gender inequities through government policies and programmes that
provide more equitable access to
resources and services. Eighty-seven
countries reported having national
social-protection plans that took
gender into account in 2017 – up
from 78 in 2016.
UNICEF also advocates for gender-responsive policies and family
friendly social benefits such as child
care, parenting support and parental
leave. In 2017, these efforts took root
in Argentina and Malaysia, where
legislation on extended parental
leave, child care and breastfeeding
provisions in the workplace are under
review or being implemented. In
other countries, such as Bangladesh,
UNICEF is working with the private
sector to provide maternity benefits
and child nutrition assistance to
women engaged in semi-formal
employment.
In its humanitarian programmes,
UNICEF works on facilitating women’s access to cash transfers and
other services by addressing the
barriers they often face. In Yemen,
for example, women bank tellers and
security guards have been employed
to create a welcoming environment
for female beneficiaries of a humanitarian cash transfer project.

58

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Equity and disability
Children and young people with
disabilities comprise one of the most
excluded and invisible groups in many
societies. They are often among the
poorest members of the population;
are at greater risk of maltreatment
than their peers; and are less likely
to attend school, access medical
services, receive proper nutrition or
have their voices heard.
In many low-income countries, only
5 per cent to 15 per cent of children
with disabilities who need assistive
technology can obtain it.
In 2017, UNICEF stepped up programming for children with disabilities.
Its longstanding partnership with
H&M and the H&M Foundation, for
example, expanded to include a new
emphasis on young children with
disabilities. The project aims to reach
9,000 children with disabilities and
20,000 parents and caregivers by
providing better access to inclusive
early childhood services in Bulgaria,
Peru and Uganda.
UNICEF also helped improve the
reach of social protection to children
with disabilities in Angola, Bosnia
and Herzegovina, Cambodia and
Myanmar. In Cambodia, 7,500 people
received disability allowances and the
government developed new disability
identification tools with assistance
from UNICEF.

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

SOCIAL INCLUSION

Stanislava, age 15, waters plants at a small group home for children with disabilities
in Montana, Bulgaria, where she lives after spending years in state institutions for
children. Now that she is in a family-type setting, Stanislava attends a mainstream
school and is supported by teachers, social workers, psychologists, speech therapists
and rehabilitators. Since 2000, Bulgaria has dramatically reduced the number of
children living in institutions, and all large institutions for children with disabilities
have been closed.
© UNICEF/UN064133/Paleykov

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

59

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

Amina James, age 19, holds her baby in front of a chalkboard in Nsomba village,
Mangochi, Malawi. Amina dropped out of school at age 14, after her mother died. Now
she attends a UNICEF-supported literacy class for adolescent girls who are not in school.
“I am so happy that I can now read and write,” Amina says. “My life has changed.”
Across Malawi, as in many countries, girls are at higher risk of dropping out than boys
due to financial constraints, early marriage, pregnancy and other factors. UNICEF
Malawi is working to keep all children in school and improve girls’ education
© UNICEF/UN0118056/Chagara

60

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

Gender Equality
RESULTS IN 2017: UNICEF and partners…		
Reached 2 million
adolescent girls
with incentives to
choose alternatives
to child marriage.

Visible empowerment
The global movement to empower
more girls and women has led
to momentous progress: More
governments than ever before are
acknowledging the basic rights of
girls and women and enshrining
these rights in health, protection and
education policies. UNICEF has been
an important part of this change.
From 2014 to 2017, UNICEF and
partners made substantial progress
towards ending child marriage,
advancing girls’ secondary education, promoting gender-responsive
adolescent health and addressing
gender-based violence in emergencies. These are the priorities of the
first UNICEF Gender Action Plan,
which has brought attention to the
interlinked forms of inequality faced
by adolescent girls and helped

Supported
programmes
to help identify,
prevent and report
sexual violence
against children in
31 countries.

catalyse global and local investment
and action.
That these pressing concerns of
girls and women are a priority for the
international community is clear in
the adoption of multiple SDGs that
align with the Gender Action Plan.
But despite such progress, girls are
still more likely than boys to be illiterate, suffer sexual victimization and
be out of school. For all the recent
analysis of the gender wage gap
and sexual harassment and assault
in affluent countries, the underlying
truth is that girls and women around
the world face persisting disadvantages – and often dangers.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Helped provide
access to safe
spaces for nearly
62,000 women
and girls in
Lebanon, and
access to services
for more than
11,500 survivors
of gender-based
violence in Iraq.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
GENDER EQUALITY
#FreedomForGirls

As part of International Day of
the Girl 2017, UNICEF teamed
up with NGOs around the world
to promote a music video that
featured girls dancing to the
Beyoncé song ‘Freedom’. The video
drew attention to SDG targets on
girls’ education, child marriage, the
impact of HIV and AIDS on girls
and young women, and genderbased violence. Viewers were
asked to share the video and tell
the world what they consider to be
freedom for girls.

61

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

01 RESULTS FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Gender equality
Safeguarding the health and
development of girls and
women is a central tenet of
UNICEF’s effort to promote
gender equality and girls’
and women’s empowerment
through its Gender Action Plan.
To that end, in 2017 the
Government of the Republic of
Korea committed US$18 million
– as the first instalment in a fiveyear initiative – to an initiative
focusing on adolescent girls’
health and education, including
completion of secondary
education.
UNICEF and partners also
pressed their efforts to
fight gender stereotyping
about parental roles. In the
Dominican Republic, a monthlong Super Papás campaign
involving 22 corporate partners
raised public awareness about
the importance of fathers’
involvement and interaction
with their children during their
first 1,000 days and beyond.

62

Alternatives to marriage
Though global child marriage rates
are on the decline, forced marriage
and early pregnancy deny millions
of adolescent girls the freedom to
control their futures. One in five
adolescent girls becomes a mother
while still a child herself.
The Global Programme to Accelerate
Action to End Child Marriage –
launched in 2016 by UNICEF and
the United Nations Population
Fund – has helped galvanize action to
reverse this harmful reality. In 2017,
64 UNICEF country programmes
made a priority of ending child marriage, an increase of 44 programmes
since 2014.
Understanding that education is the
ideal alternative to early marriage,
UNICEF employed a range of
multisectoral strategies to promote
secondary education for girls in 2017.
These strategies included tackling
gender-based violence in schools,
supporting the construction of
girl-friendly sanitation facilities in
50,000 schools and advocating curriculum reforms for gender-equitable
instruction.
Between 2016 and 2017, with support
from UNICEF, more than 2 million
adolescent girls received assistance
in the form of cash transfers, school
materials and coverage of transport
expenses. The support allowed
girls to pursue alternatives to child
marriage and mitigated the negative
consequences for girls already
married. With concerted effort and
expanded political will, UNICEF aims
to empower every adolescent girl to
be in school, training or employment
by 2030.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Advancing girls’ secondary
education
Overwhelming evidence shows that
completion of secondary education
can be a transformative force for girls
and entire societies. But in regions
such as sub-Saharan Africa, the
Middle East and North Africa, and
South Asia, gender-based inequities
widen for girls when they reach
secondary school age – resulting in
myriad lost opportunities.
There has been progress in reversing
this trend, however. Lower secondary
school enrolment among girls is on
the rise globally, and the proportion
of countries where girls’ secondary
education is a budgeted government
priority increased from 27 per cent
in 2014 to 35 per cent in 2017.
Meanwhile, 58 UNICEF country programmes were implementing action
to advance girls’ secondary education
in 2017, compared with 30 in 2014.
In Madagascar, for example,
cash transfers enabled 21,000
out-of-school girls to attend
catch-up classes, including 5,000
in lower-secondary education. A
presidential decree in Niger raised
the compulsory age of schooling
for girls to 16. And a pilot campaign
encouraging parents in Morocco
to allow their girls to complete
lower-secondary education led to
an immediate increase in school
retention rates.
To promote girls’ achievement,
UNICEF and partners work to
improve gender-equitable learning
and support girls’ transition from
schooling to the workplace. Among
other objectives, this means closing
the gap in science, technology, engineering and mathematics fields, and
scaling up market-based skills training
and digital literacy.

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

GENDER EQUALITY

LEFT: Elders and members of
the Akorikaya and Naminaikal
communities in Amudat
District, Uganda, declare an
end to the practice of female
genital mutilation.
© UNICEF/UN065405/Ntabadde

Focus on reproductive health
While reducing early pregnancy is
a key area of progress in UNICEF’s
work on gender equality, attending to
adolescent mothers is equally critical.
So it is notable that the number of
countries where girls aged 15 to 19
are able to deliver with the support of
a skilled birth attendant has spiked,
as has the number of countries providing antenatal care. These tangible
improvements are fundamental to
reproductive health rights for adolescent girls.
Other components of genderresponsive adolescent health
emphasized by UNICEF in 2017
included anaemia reduction,
menstrual hygiene management, HIV
and AIDS prevention and elimination
of FGM.

Addressing gender-based violence
and more
Violence against girls and women
goes beyond physical or sexual
abuse. It also encompasses issues
such as sex-selective abortion,
exploitation and harmful traditional
practices. For boys, it often takes the
form of corporal punishment, bullying
or socialization to become violent.
In 2017, the gendered dimensions
of violence against girls, boys and
women emerged increasingly as
concerns for international protection
organizations – largely thanks to
UNICEF’s evaluative work on violence against children.
In the course of the year, UNICEF supported programmes in 31 countries to
help young people identify and report
sexual violence. Fifty-one countries
improved their child-protection policies
based on gender reviews assisted
by UNICEF – more than double the
number of countries in 2014.
UNICEF will continue to advocate
for sex-disaggregated and gender-relevant data on violence against
children, including discriminatory
social and legal processes.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
GENDER EQUALITY
#ENDviolence

The publication of UNICEF’s 2017
report, A Familiar Face: Violence in
the lives of children and adolescents,
highlighted the intersection of
gender and violence. On social
media channels, UNICEF shared
information about that connection,
including the fact that around
15 million adolescent girls aged
15 to 19 have experienced forced
sex in their lifetime – and 9 million
of them were victimized within
the past year.

63

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

02
Innovation:
Accelerating
Results
UNICEF’s Office of Innovation worked through its extensive
network of partners from both the public and private sectors
to coordinate its work and support its global team throughout
2017. The results achieved would not have been possible
without the ideas, expertise, advocacy and financial support of
government and development partners in 90 countries.

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

UNICEF partners in innovation
included the Governments of
Denmark, Finland and the Republic
of Korea, and companies such as
Arm, Atlassian, Facebook, frog
design, Johnson & Johnson and
Viber. Other supporters included the
Aga Khan Foundation and the Bill
& Melinda Gates Foundation, the
Rhodes University Biotechnology
Innovation Centre in South Africa,
the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University – plus
dozens of volunteer experts who
generously donated their knowledge
and time.
The following are highlights of the
innovations spearheaded by UNICEF
and partners during the year.

Venture Fund invests in the future
The UNICEF Venture Fund makes
early-stage investments in technologies for children and young people
developed by UNICEF Country
Offices or companies in countries
where UNICEF works. In 2017, the
US$14.4 million fund made 11 new
investments in projects led by
Country Offices, bringing the total
number of funded offices to 37 – plus
9 new investments in start-up companies, bringing the total number of
funded companies to 14.
These investments support innovative applications using a range of
technologies, including drones, the
Blockchain digital asset platform,
virtual reality, augmented and
alternative communications, artificial
intelligence and mobile apps.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

In South Africa, for example, the
Venture Fund invested in Trustlab,
which has used Blockchain to digitize
50,000 attendance records for more
than 50 early childhood development
centres. This effort will allow the
authorities to match attendance to
government subsidies, providing
school-age children with access to
the educational services they are
entitled to receive.
The fund also backs research into
ground-breaking new technologies
to benefit children and adolescents.
One notable example: the first
humanitarian drone corridor, which
opened in Malawi in 2017. All
research and learnings underwritten by the fund are issued in the
public domain.

65

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

02 INNOVATION: ACCELERATING RESULTS

ABOVE: Community members in
Kasungu, central Malawi, gather to hear
about unmanned aerial vehicle – or drone
– technology. The Government of Malawi
and UNICEF have launched Africa’s first
drone testing corridor to assess potential
uses of the technology for humanitarian
purposes.
© UNICEF/UN070228/Chisiza

66

RapidPro for child health and
nutrition
Digital health technologies enhance
the quality and reach of vital health
information and services for the most
disadvantaged children and their
families. UNICEF’s digital health interventions are powered by RapidPro,
an open-source platform that was
operational in 51 countries in 2017.

Recognition for wearable tech in
India
In 2017, UNICEF’s Office of Innovation
continued to support the winners
of the Wearables for Good design
challenge: Khushi Baby, a necklace
that stores immunization records
for children in the first two years of
life; and SoaPen, a soap crayon that
encourages handwashing.

In Indonesia, RapidPro helped
monitor the rollout of an immunization campaign targeting 70 million
children. In Uganda, the platform’s
digital tracking functionality – known
as mTrac – assisted the government’s
Health Management Information
System with real-time data on
disease prevalence collected from
community health workers. In
Senegal, health workers trained
in RapidPro built their own mobile
service to coordinate life-saving
emergency medical transportation
and referral.

In recognition of the potential for these
wearable technologies, the team
behind Khushi Baby won the Emerging
NGO of the Year award from SPO
India, a research and advocacy group,
and the Near Field Communication
Forum’s honour for Best Mobile App
of 2017. The team also won the year’s
Johnson & Johnson Gen H Challenge
Grand Prize. The SoaPen team was
named to the Forbes ‘30 under 30’ list
for health care and science.

And in Burundi, the managers of a
nutrition programme used RapidPro
to track service utilization, supply
stocks and distribution in real time.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Both solutions are now progressing
to scale in India and beyond with
the help of partners such as UNICEF
India; Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; and
Johnson & Johnson – as well as
local private-sector and government
partners.

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Drone testing in Malawi
Unmanned aerial vehicles, or ‘drone’based technologies and services,
have the potential to strengthen and
accelerate many aspects of UNICEF’s
work – including vaccine delivery,
improved connectivity in hard-toreach communities and aerial imaging
for better preparedness and response
in emergencies.
In June 2017, UNICEF’s Office of
Innovation and the Government of
Malawi launched a drone test corridor
in central Malawi. The corridor is the
first of its kind in Africa and one of
the first in the world focusing on
humanitarian and development uses.
UNICEF has partnered with the
University of Virginia to train 30
Malawian university students in
drone technology. Looking ahead, it is
in talks to test drone transport in the
Pacific Island state of Vanuatu and in
the Central Asian subregion.

Handbook on urbanization
In 2017, the Office of Innovation
completed work on a handbook,
Innovating for Children in an
Urbanizing World, which provides
UNICEF and partners with a blueprint
for designing and implementing technology-based solutions that improve
the lives of children and young people
– and advance equity – in rapidly
urbanizing areas.
Such guidance is timely because
cities are now home to more than
half of the world’s population and
generate more than 80 per cent of
global gross domestic product. By
2050, more than two thirds of the
population will reside in cities.

Insights from Magic Box
Magic Box is a collaborative platform
made possible through the contributions of private-sector partners
such as Amadeus, Google, IBM and
Telefónica, who share their data and
expertise to help track social indicators and create risk maps.
By harnessing real-time data through
Magic Box, UNICEF can gain critical
insights into the needs of vulnerable
populations – and make more
informed decisions about how to
invest its resources in response to
disasters, epidemics and other challenges. In 2017, UNICEF’s Office of
Innovation grew the Magic Box portfolio with applications in 10 countries.
In Iraq, UNICEF partnered with
the mobile telecommunications
company Zain to develop methods for
estimating poverty indicators based
on data from mobile networks. In
Brazil, Colombia, Liberia, Malawi and
Mauritania, schools were mapped for
connectivity status, providing data
that should ultimately help improve
the delivery of information, food and
medical supplies.

@UNICEF
ADVOCACY IN 2017:
DIGITAL FIRST
#Twiplomacy

UNICEF’s digital-first approach
to communications and public
advocacy – designed to bridge
global and local issues affecting
children and young people – has
been successful on multiple
platforms. In 2017, the Twiplomacy
study conducted by the global
communications firm BursonMarsteller named UNICEF the
“most effective international
organization on Twitter.” And
UNICEF maintained a vibrant
digital presence as the most liked
international organization on
Facebook, the most followed and
engaged international organization
on Instagram and the second
most followed international
organization on LinkedIn.

In the Democratic Republic of the
Congo and the Central African
Republic, UNICEF used Magic Box
to develop a computational model
simulating the spread of Ebola. This
analysis led to a partnership between
UNICEF and local telecommunications companies Airtel and Vodacom
to provide real-time data on population movements – data that should
enhance the reliability of future
simulations and, in the process, help
prevent outbreaks from spreading.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

67

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

02 INNOVATION: ACCELERATING RESULTS

Web-enabled child development
The UNICEF-supported Internet of
Good Things (IoGT) platform provides
free access to life-saving and
life-improving information through all
web-enabled mobile phones – from
basic devices to smartphones – with
an emphasis on the most disadvantaged and first-time users.

BELOW: Adolescent girls and boys
promote U-Report in Côte d’Ivoire, the
35th country to join the U-Report SMS
platform enabling young people to voice
their opinions, get vital information
and serve as agents of change in their
communities.

Between 2015 and 2017, the number
of countries covered by the platform
increased from 3 to 61. During 2017,
11 million users, 60 per cent of whom
were between the ages of 13 and
24, accessed IoGT messages in
13 languages.

U-Report closes information gaps
U-Report is a free social messaging
tool – created by UNICEF – enabling
young people to help improve their
communities and speak out on the
issues that shape their lives. By the
end of 2017, there were more than
4.6 million U-Reporters active in
40 countries.

In South Africa alone, more than
1 million parents and caregivers
took advantage of IoGT in 2017 to
learn about supporting their infants’
development and well-being. A
survey conducted among these

UNICEF deployed U-Report in
various humanitarian emergencies
during the year. In the Caribbean
region, the tool was used to
deliver messages to more than
25,000 people affected by

© UNICEF/UN0151493/Dejongh

68

users showed positive results, with
82 per cent saying they learned
from the IoGT platform; 80 per cent
feeling more confident thanks to
the information they found; and
nearly 50 per cent reporting subsequent behaviour change.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

Hurricane Irma. It also supported
UNICEF’s response to outbreaks
of cholera in Nigeria, Zika in Latin
America and Marburg virus in
Uganda, as well as landslides in
Sierra Leone and conflict in the
Central African Republic.
In several countries, U-Report contributed to closing gaps in information
and services available to girls and
women. For example, 500,000 messages answered through U-Report
provided information on menstrual
hygiene management and sexual and
reproductive health.

Innovation Gender Challenge
UNICEF’s innovation and gender
teams joined forces to launch the
Innovation Gender Challenge in 2017.
The challenge provided technical and
financial support to UNICEF Country
Offices working with children and

adolescents on creative ways to
advance gender equality.
The result: a portfolio of 16 projects,
including an effort under way in East
Asia and the Pacific to create a mobile
tracker app that provides girls with information about their menstrual cycles and
other reproductive health concerns.

UPSHIFT scales up
The UPSHIFT programme, a promising approach to youth and adolescent
development, builds on private-sector
best practices of human-centred
design to help disadvantaged and
marginalized young people become
social innovators and entrepreneurs.
Launched by UNICEF Kosovo* in
2014, the programme combines
workshops with mentorship,
materials and seed funding. It
equips participants with the skills

and resources they need to identify
problems in their communities – and
to build solutions in the form of
products or services. UNICEF partner
ING has been supporting UPSHIFT
since 2015.
In 2017, UNICEF’s Office of Innovation
took steps to scale up this initiative.
A November workshop in Kosovo
brought together UPSHIFT participants from 22 countries, such as
Georgia, Guatemala, Indonesia,
Jordan, the Sudan, Viet Nam and
Zimbabwe. Over three days, they
shared lessons learned and planned
for the deployment of ‘UPSHIFT 2.0’
in more than 20 countries during 2018
and 2019.

* References to Kosovo should be understood in the context of United Nations
Security Council resolution 1244 (1999).

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: World’s Children’s Day

A highlight of World
Children’s Day – organized
by UNICEF and partners for
the first time on 20 November
2017 – was the #KidsTakeover,
in which children around
the world replaced adults
for one day in parliaments,
corporations and news outlets,
at UNICEF and in the United
Nations General Assembly.
The takeovers reminded the
world to hear the concerns
of children and adolescents,
and help defend their lives,
rights and well-being. World
Children’s Day 2017 activities
spread the message in
161 countries.

Other highlights included a
high-level event at the European
Parliament under the auspices
of its President, a children’s
interview with World Bank
Group CEO Kristalina Georgieva,
participation in the Junior
Ambassadors programme of the
New York City Mayor’s Office
and mobilization of the Nord
Anglia Education international
school system.
In addition, a World Children’s
Day Lesson Plan raised
youth awareness about the
promise of the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development.
At the same time, the Group

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

of Friends of Children and the
SDGs – an alliance of Member
States of the United Nations –
reaffirmed its commitment to
child rights as an integral part
of the SDGs.
Also on 20 November, the
global fitness organization
Les Mills – together with its
19,000 gym partners and
130,000 passionate instructors
– cooperated with UNICEF to
launch a global event known
as Move the World. With the
participation of celebrities,
and with actions in multiple
countries, the event raised more
than US$1 million.

69

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

02 INNOVATION: ACCELERATING RESULTS

03

Supplies:
Delivering on
Child Rights
Throughout 2017, UNICEF supplies were a lifeline for children
lacking access to health care, nutrition, safe water, education
and other necessities to which they have a right. In a year that
saw a record number of children and young people in need of
humanitarian assistance, UNICEF and partners also worked
tirelessly to deliver vital supplies for those caught in conflicts,
natural disasters, epidemics and extreme poverty.

70

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

BELOW: Workers carry boxes of ready-to-use
therapeutic food for malnourished children, delivered
by truck to the UNICEF storage facility in Maiduguri,
Borno State, Nigeria.
© UNICEF/UN0119083/Sokhin

To ensure the global availability and
local delivery of essential supplies
for children, UNICEF procured
US$3.46 billion worth of supplies
and services in 2017. This total
included US$1.44 billion worth of
supplies delivered to 110 countries
through Procurement Services, a
development cooperation mechanism that provides access to
essential supplies for governments
and other partners.

In addition, UNICEF helped governments develop and implement
operational strategies and tools to
improve supply chain management,
especially for their health systems
– sustainably improving access to
life-giving supplies for children.
UNICEF’s supply strategies leverage
competition, transparency, improved
forecasts, special financing, innovative
contracting and partner collaboration.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

In 2017, these factors contributed to
increased availability, stronger supplier
bases and declining prices covering a
range of commodities – from vaccines
and medicines to freight and insurance
services. They also contributed to an estimated US$394.6 million in cost avoidance
for the year. Cumulative savings since
2012 reached more than US$2 billion.
The following are highlights of
UNICEF’s supply operations in 2017.

71

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

03 SUPPLIES: DELIVERING ON CHILD RIGHTS

Rapid response to conflicts
Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya
refugees – approximately 60 per cent
of them children – fled violence in
Myanmar and crossed the border into
Bangladesh in the second half of the
year. In response, UNICEF sent more
than US$8 million worth of emergency education, WASH and health
supplies, including 7.9 million doses
of vaccines, to aid the refugees and
the surrounding host population.
Besides supporting the UNICEF
Bangladesh Country Office in
delivery of essential commodities,
UNICEF’s Supply Division chartered
three supply flights and deployed
additional logistics staff to refugee
camps in Cox’s Bazar and to Dhaka,
Bangladesh.
Meanwhile, in the Syrian Arab
Republic, humanitarian access to children and young people was repeatedly
impeded during 2017. Nevertheless,
UNICEF was able to deliver key
emergency supplies. One such
delivery went to the Idlib Governate in
response to a reported chemical attack.
In addition to a rapid-response delivery of antidote medications atropine
and pralidoxime to Idlib, more than
US$59 million worth of emergency
supplies – including ready-to-use
therapeutic food (RUTF), high-energy
biscuits, diarrhoeal disease treatment
packs, emergency health kits and
micronutrient powder – also reached
communities caught in the conflict
within the country.

Safe water and sanitation
Against a backdrop of climate change,
large populations on the move and
two major outbreaks of cholera in 2017,
UNICEF procured US$109.2 million in
safe water and sanitation supplies.
Demand for hygiene kits rose dramatically, exceeding 3.5 million – an
increase of more than 230 per cent
over 2016. Nearly 1.7 billion water
72

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

purification tablets were procured,
and more than 960 million were
dispatched to respond to the cholera
crisis in Yemen.
In the Kasai region of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, UNICEF procured US$3.7 million in emergency
supplies, including many WASH
items, in response to a displacement
crisis triggered by violence.

Child nutrition and therapeutic
feeding
Of the US$2.34 billion in life-saving
supplies procured by UNICEF in 2017,
there were almost US$220 million
worth of nutrition supplies – a
46 per cent increase over 2016.
The spike in the need for nutrition
supplies came about primarily because
of emergencies in Nigeria, Somalia,
South Sudan and Yemen. The supplies
included 52,850 metric tons of RUTF,
55 per cent of which was sourced
from UNICEF programme countries
to treat children suffering from acute
malnutrition. This sourcing is the result
of a long-term strategy to develop local
markets for RUTF, which originally had
to be flown in from Europe.
UNICEF also procured more than
1.18 billion sachets of multiple micronutrient powder for home-based
food fortification in 50 countries, and
554 million vitamin A doses – more
than 80 per cent of which were
received as an in-kind donation from
Nutrition International.

Vaccines and related supplies
During 2017, UNICEF and partners
planned routine immunization
campaigns and responded to multiple
outbreaks with six different vaccines.
Overall, UNICEF procured vaccines
to reach 45 per cent of the world’s
children under age 5.
These campaigns were critical not
only in countries in crisis such as
Yemen, but also in urban areas

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

and among children who were not
previously identified as high-risk
populations – like those affected by
outbreaks of yellow fever in Brazil and
plague in Madagascar.
As the procurement agency for Gavi,
the Vaccine Alliance, UNICEF works
closely with the Gavi Secretariat,
the World Health Organization and
the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
to obtain vaccines and related
supplies – including immunization
devices, safety boxes and cold-chain
equipment for vaccine preservation
during transport. In 2017, these efforts
resulted in 2.44 billion doses of
vaccines procured for 102 countries,
with a total a value of US$1.32 billion.
Some countries that are in the
process of transitioning from Gavi
support could face short-term budget
and technical difficulties in securing
vaccines. In 2017, UNICEF focused
on supporting these countries and
strengthening their procurement
systems to ensure an uninterrupted
vaccine supply.

Learning and inclusion
The value of education supplies
procured by UNICEF globally in 2017
was US$72.4 million. In particular,
significant needs for education
supplies arose during the Caribbean
hurricane response and the Rohingya
refugee crisis in Bangladesh.
Overall in 2017, UNICEF shipped
28,000 recreation kits, 17,000
early childhood development kits,
52,000 standard classroom kits and
3,000 country-specific classroom kits
to 64 countries.
In one example of using supplies
to promote inclusion of the most
vulnerable children and young people,
UNICEF conducted a review of
assistive educational products for
those with disabilities and went on
to procure behind-the-ear digital aids
for children in Zimbabwe. The organization also field-tested an adolescent
kit designed to give opportunities for
self-expression to young people in
countries affected by conflict.

ABOVE: In September 2017, families
living in shelters in the immediate
aftermath of Hurricane Matthew receive
hygiene and dignity kits in Roseau, the
capital of Dominica.
© UNICEF/UN0127075/Moreno Gonzalez

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

73

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

04

Partnership and
Stewardship
For more than 70 years, funded entirely by voluntary
contributions, UNICEF has worked to save and improve the
lives of children and young people around the world. This
history includes a proven record of partnership with both
the public and private sectors – along with civil society and
development organizations, other United Nations agencies,
individual supporters and prominent advocates. The results
UNICEF has achieved reflect the diversity and strength of these
alliances, as well as a continuing effort to maximize resources
through efficient and effective operations worldwide.

74

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

RIGHT: Claudia Rocca Ryan
(far left) meets with students at a
school programme in Sri Lanka that
is assisted by UNICEF with support
from the Ryan family. Ryan is one of
the founding members of UNICEF’s
International Council, a new initiative
that brings together influential
philanthropic partners, magnifying their
combined experience and influence to
advance UNICEF’s work for children
and young people.

In 2017, UNICEF benefited from a 27 per cent increase in revenue over 2016,
for a total of US$6.6 billion. Of that amount, US$4.7 billion represented
contributions from intergovernmental organizations, inter-organizational
arrangements and a total of 142 governments, setting a new record for
public-sector revenue for the organization.
The three largest public-sector contributors to UNICEF were the United
States, the United Kingdom and the European Commission.
UNICEF’s revenue from all sources is divided into regular resources,
which are unrestricted, and other resources, which are limited to specific
programmes and themes. Because they are not earmarked, regular
resources allow UNICEF to respond quickly to emerging challenges and
invest in innovative solutions. In 2017, regular resources increased by
8 per cent.
Global thematic funds allow for long-term planning, sustainability and
savings in transaction costs for both UNICEF and its resource partners.
The largest public-sector contributors to thematic funding pools in 2017
were Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands and Denmark, while the largest
private-sector contributors were the German Committee for UNICEF and
the United States Fund for UNICEF.
Private-sector revenue overall – from UNICEF National Committees,
individual donors, NGOs and foundations – set a record at US$1.7 billion
for the year.
While the impressive figures above demonstrate the generosity of
UNICEF’s resource partners, it is important to note that they include significant multi-year funding commitments that were made in 2017. Some of the
actual revenue will be received to support programmes in subsequent years.
UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Key support
The Government of the United
States was the largest overall
donor to UNICEF in 2017,
contributing US$815.3 million.
In addition, the United States
contributed the most resources
for humanitarian response and
was the largest funder of flexible
regular resources.
The Government of the United
Kingdom was the second largest
overall contributor to UNICEF in
2017, providing US$520.4 million
in critical support for global
programming in education,
health, nutrition, and water,
sanitation and hygiene. The
United Kingdom was also the
second largest contributor to
emergency response funding
and played an ongoing advocacy
role on issues such as disability
and gender.

75

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source and funding type, 2017*
(in millions of US dollars)

Governments and
intergovernmental agencies

Private sector and
non-governmental organizations

Regular resources

Regular resources

$580 = 9%

$706 = 11%

Other resources

Other resources

$3,290 = 50%

$1,004 = 15%

Total $6,577 million

Inter-organizational arrangements
Other resources

$859 = 13%
Other revenue **
$138 = 2%

* The figures for 2017 are provisional and are subject to audit.
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
NOTE: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

76

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Innovation, advocacy and education
Private-sector partnerships and philanthropy not only yielded
important revenue but also advanced innovation, advocacy
and education throughout 2017.
For example, UNICEF continued its long-term partnerships
with the Change for Good® programme, the LEGO Group
and LEGO Foundation, and Procter & Gamble, along with
FC Barcelona.
Barça Foundation, the football club’s charitable arm,
contributes €2 million annually towards UNICEF
initiatives fostering education through sport. The BarçaUNICEF partnership has provided more than 1.5 million
children with access to quality education, sport and
play, as well as HIV and AIDS programmes. The foundation also supported UNICEF’s emergency response to
the September 2017 earthquake in Mexico.
In Germany, the United Internet for UNICEF Foundation
worked assiduously on behalf of children in need. As
one of Germany’s leading service providers, the United
Internet company uses its web portals and mail services to draw users’ attention and, under the umbrella
of its foundation, boosts UNICEF’s calls for humanitarian action. Since its launch in 2006, the foundation
has contributed more than €40 million in donations
and signed up approximately 12,500 pledge donors to
UNICEF online.

Philanthropists and National Committees
November 2017 saw the launch of UNICEF’s International
Council of key influencers at United Nations Headquarters
in New York. This new initiative brings together many of
UNICEF’s philanthropic partners, providing a platform
to learn from their extensive combined experience and
advance the organization’s work.
At the International Council’s inaugural symposium,
founding members had practical conversations about
taking the council forward to achieve a lasting impact for
children. A key outcome was the decision to expand the
platform to a wider group and reconvene in Florence,
Italy, in November 2018.
Also in 2017, UNICEF continued to raise funds and
awareness through its 34 National Committees.
Additional financial support came from greeting card
and licensing partners, including Belarto, Editor,
Hallmark and Pictura, which collectively have contributed
US$43 million to UNICEF over the lifetime of the
partnerships.

ABOVE: UNICEF India celebrated World Children’s Day 2017 with
the legendary cricketer and UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador Sachin
Tendulkar, seen here in a group photo accompanied by Special
Olympics children with whom he played a match.
© UNICEF/UN0146608/Vishwanathan2017

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

77

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Partners in humanitarian action
UNICEF strives to enhance efficiency and effectiveness in all of
its programmes and partnerships – and nowhere is this effort
more important than in humanitarian action.

@UNICEF partnerships
in 2017: Key support

In 2017, humanitarian expenses amounted to US$2.86 billion,
or more than half of all UNICEF expenses. Resource partners
responded generously to multiple emergencies, providing
US$2.1 billion in total revenue for targeted humanitarian
appeals.

UNICEF’s third largest public-sector
supporter in 2017 was the European
Commission, which contributed
US$500.9 million.
The people and Government of Sweden
are also effective partners for children,
with a long track record of flexible and
predictable funding for programmes to
advance child rights. Sweden contributed
US$214.7 million in 2017, consolidating
its rank as UNICEF’s fourth largest
government resource partner. As the fifth
largest humanitarian donor, it contributed
US$55.5 million to support emergency
response operations.
Norway is UNICEF’s top public resource
partner providing global thematic funding
for education, having contributed more
than US$64 million in such funding in 2017.
Norwegian support was instrumental in
reaching more than 1.2 million children and
young people in the Syrian Arab Republic
and neighbouring countries, including
Lebanon, where more than 450,000
benefited from educational opportunities.
Norway also supported emergency learning
in the Lake Chad Region and Nigeria.
The World Bank Group and UNICEF remain
strong partners as well, both in countries
affected by fragility, conflict and violence,
and in other countries working with the
International Development Association
and International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development. In 2017, the World Bank
Group was UNICEF’s fifth-largest resource
partner, contributing US$351 million,
and signed its first Strategic Partnership
Framework with UNICEF. The framework
cemented collaboration on a range of
areas – from investing in early childhood
development and research on child poverty
to social protection and the promotion of
equity in access to basic services.

78

The United States continued to rank as UNICEF’s largest government resource partner for humanitarian operations in 2017;
it was also the largest contributor to flexible regular resources,
which allow for an immediate response when crises strike.
In addition, UNICEF received nearly US$109 million in grants
from the Central Emergency Response Fund, an essential component of the humanitarian system and a valued and trusted
partner.

Strengthening performance and efficiency
UNICEF made important strides in performance and efficiency
during 2017. Operational efficiencies and new resources yielded
US$1.65 million in travel savings, for instance, while efficiencies
from the Global Shared Services Centre – which centralized
many of UNICEF’s business functions – resulted in savings of
close to US$3 million. Supply chain strategies involving key
commodities led to nearly US$400 million in cost avoidance.
In 2018 and beyond, UNICEF will keep working to strengthen
public- and private-sector partnerships for enhanced results. At
the country level, it will continue partnering with governments
and affirming their primary responsibility to guide national
development and coordinate assistance. Improved coordination
with other United Nations agencies will also be a priority, in the
interest of accelerating progress towards the SDGs.
UNICEF extends its deepest appreciation to all the partners that
provided financial resources and other support in 2017. Their
commitments play an indispensable part in reaching the world’s
most vulnerable and disadvantaged children.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

Top 30 resource partners by contributions received, 2017
(in millions of US dollars)
REGULAR
RESOURCES

PARTNER

OTHER RESOURCES
Regular

United States
United Kingdom
European Commission

TOTAL

Emergency

133

164

519

815

54

203

264

521

–

285

215

500

17

116

234

367

–

351

–

351

United States (NC***)

35

261

44

340

Sweden

85

82

40

207

Norway

48

86

60

194

Japan

19

78

73

171

–

–

141

141

Germany
World Bank Group - International
Development Association (WBG-IDA)

United Nations Office for the Coordination of
Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)*
Japan (NC)

111

9

13

133

Canada

13

70

49

131

Republic of Korea (NC)

99

23

2

124

–

120

–

120

Netherlands

20

58

25

103

Germany (NC)

44

16

35

95

Sweden (NC)

42

35

8

85

Spain (NC)

53

7

9

69

United Kingdom (NC)

14

35

18

67

–

66

–

66

France (NC)

44

11

6

61

Netherlands (NC)

41

8

9

58

Denmark

13

24

18

55

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) **

–

27

25

53

Global Partnership for Education

–

52

–

52

Italy (NC)

35

2

3

40

Australia

16

4

20

40

Switzerland

24

5

11

40

Republic of Korea

4

28

6

38

Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria
(GFATM)

–

34

4

38

Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance

United Nations Development Group joint programme

* Contributions from UNOCHA include $109 million related to the Central Emergency Response Fund
(CERF) and $32 million related to other sources.
** Revenue from UNDP includes $16 million related to the Common Humanitarian Fund (CHF) and
$37 million related to One Funds and Joint Programmes.
*** National Committee for UNICEF.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

79

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

UNICEF revenue, 2012–2017
(in millions of US dollars)

Regular resources
Other resources (regular)
Other resources (emergency)

$3,500
$3,000
$2,500
$2,000
$1,500
$1,000
$500
0
2012

2013

2014*

2015*

2016*

2017**

* 2014–2016 revenue figures have been restated to reflect UNICEF’s 2017 revenue recognition policy.
** The figures for 2017 are provisional and are subject to audit.

Top 10 countries, contributions received by donor and funding type, 2017*
(in millions of US dollars)

$700

Government: Regular resources

Private sector: Regular resources

Government: Other resources

Private sector: Other resources

$600
$500
$400
$300
$200
$100
$0
United
States

United
Kingdom

Germany

Japan

Sweden

Norway

Republic
of Korea

Netherlands

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees; excludes intergovernmental,
non-governmental, inter-organizational and pooled funds contributions.

80

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Canada

France

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

Per capita contributions received by UNICEF, 2017*
Member countries of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
(in US dollars)
Norway

39.23

Sweden

29.42

Iceland

25.42

Luxembourg

17.68

Denmark

13.30

Netherlands

9.48

United Kingdom

8.89

Switzerland

7.32

Finland

5.85

Germany

5.63

Ireland

4.54

Canada

3.96

Belgium

3.92

United States

3.56

Republic of Korea

3.18

Japan

2.38

Australia

2.14

New Zealand

1.89

Spain

1.59

France

1.41

Italy

1.14

Austria

0.70

Portugal

0.59

Slovenia

0.49

Hungary

0.34

Czechia

0.29

Poland

0.21

Greece

0.16

Slovakia

0.11

$0

$5

$10

$15

$20

$25

$30

$35

$40

* Includes contributions from governments and UNICEF National Committees.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

81

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Thematic contributions received, 2016–2017
(in millions of US dollars)
OUTCOME AREAS

2016

Health
HIV/AIDS and Children
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene

2017
12

16

8

13

31

33

Nutrition

3

17

Education

88

87

Child protection

18

27

Social inclusion

6

5

Gender equality

1

1

Humanitarian action

145

164

Total

312

363

Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

Private foundations and major donors contributing $100,000 or more
to UNICEF programmes in 2017
The Ajram Family Foundation
AlAbdulla Family
Alwaleed Philanthropies
Mr. and Mrs. William F. Achtmeyer
Sunita & Surinder Arora
Auridis
Big Lottery Fund
The Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation
Susan and Dan Boggio
Charlotte and Peter Bolland
Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Brinker
Bruce and Jina Veaco Foundation
Cathal Ryan Trust
The Charles Engelhard Foundation
Charlie and Moll Anderson Family
Foundation
Child & Tree Fund
Children’s Investment Fund
Foundation
Clara Lionel Foundation
Clooney Foundation for Justice
Combined Jewish Philanthropies
Mark and Marian Deere
The Derek A.T. Drummond Fund
The Dietz Family Fund
Dubai Cares
Mr. and Mrs. Steve Eaton
Edmond J. Safra Foundation
Educate A Child, A Programme of
Education Above All Foundation
Elbert H., Evelyn J., and Karen H.
Waldron Charitable Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Michael R. Eisenson
82

The ELEVA Foundation
ELMA Philanthropies
Emirates Red Crescent
The Enrico Foundation
Fatima Fund
FIA Foundation
Fidelity Charitable Gift Fund
Stefan Findel and Susan
Cummings-Findel
Fondation Botnar
Fondation Espoir, under the aegis
of Fondation de Luxembourg
Fondation Pierre Bellon
Fundación Carlos Slim
Fundación Leo Messi
G. Barrie Landry and the Landry
Family Foundation
John and Cindi Galiher
The Garrett Family Foundation
Gebauer Stiftung
George Lucas Family Foundation
GHR Foundation
Ms. Kaia Miller Goldstein and
Mr. Jonathan Goldstein
Ms. Dorothy M. Goodykoontz
Gratitude to the Water Foundation
Hartog Foundation
Hawk Foundation
Salma Hayek Pinault
Helaina Foundation
Mr. John A Herrmann
Mr. and Mrs. Dariush Hosseini
Houssian Foundation
IKEA Foundation

The J Van Mars Foundation
Japan Committee Vaccines for the
World’s Children
Pasi Joronen
Ms. M Kambara
Joe and Sarah Kiani
Peter Kim and Kathryn Spitzer Kim
Kiwanis International
Kuwait Foundation for the
Advancement of Science
Ms. Tetsuko Kuroyanagi
Kwok Foundation
LDS Charities
Mr. Sang-Rok Lee
Tamar and Bob Manoukian
Margaret A. Cargill Foundation
Ms. Sterling McDavid
The Milagro Foundation
Megha and Aditya Mittal
Frank M. Montano
The Morgan Foundation
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Moskovitz
NHH Aid
National Philanthropic Trust
Nenäpäivä-säätiö
Carrie D. Rhodes-Nigam and
Vishal Nigam
Obel Family Foundation
The One Foundation
People’s Postcode Lottery
The Power of Nutrition
Qatar Charity
Radiohjälpen
Randell Charitable Fund

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Ready 4 School Rwanda
Michael Rosenberg
The Rotary Foundation / Rotary
International
SF Foundation
Barbara and Edward Shapiro
H.H. Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed
Al Nahyan, Crown Prince
of Abu Dhabi
H.H. Sheikha Moza bint Nasser
Al-Missned
Mr. and Mrs. Cyrus W. Spurlino
Tong Shumeng
Amanda Staveley
Mr. Jeff E. Tarumianz
Ms. Tori Thomas
Tides Foundation
Ting Tsung and Wei Fong Chao
Foundation
The Tom Mikuni and Minnie Obe
Hirayama Charitable Fund
Unitarian Universalist Congregation
at Shelter Rock
United Nations Foundation
Vanguard Charitable Endowment
Program
Mr. Robert J. Weltman
William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation
Win-Win Compassion for Children
Ms. Christina Zilber
Zonta International

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

Corporate sector alliances contributing $100,000 or more to UNICEF programmes in 2017
MULTI-COUNTRY ALLIANCES

NATIONAL ALLIANCES

ALEX AND ANI
Amadeus [Iberia LAE S.A. (Spain),
Finnair (Finland), Norwegian Air
Shuttle ASA (Norway)]
Arm Holdings
Belarto
Cartier Philanthropy
Change for Good® [Aer Lingus
(Ireland), American Airlines
(United States), Asiana Airlines
(Republic of Korea), Cathay
Pacific (Hong Kong, China), Cebu
Pacific Air (Philippines), easyJet
(United Kingdom), Japan Airlines,
(Japan), Hainan Airlines (China),
Tianjin Airlines (China), Qantas
Airways Ltd. (Australia)]
Cubus AS
DLA Piper
Fundación FCBarcelona
Garnier
Gina Tricot
Groupe Editor
Gucci
H & M Hennes & Mauritz AB
H&M Foundation
Hallmark
Humble Bundle
ING
JANÉ GROUP
Kantar Group
Kimberly-Clark Foundation
“La Caixa” Banking Foundation
The LEGO Foundation
The LEGO Group
Les Mills International
Louis Vuitton Malletier
Marks & Spencer plc
Meliá Hotels International
MSC Cruises SA
Nordic Choice Hotels AS
Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA
Philips Foundation
Pictura
Primark Limited
Privalia Venta Directa S.A.
Procter & Gamble (Pampers)
Starwood Hotels & Resorts (now
Marriott International, Inc.), (Road
to Awareness®, Check Out for
Children®, Make a Green Choice®)
Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Ltd.
Telenor Group
Unilever
Volvic
The Walt Disney Company

Argentina
Chubb Seguros Argentina
Banelco S.A.
Chevrolet
Australian Committee for UNICEF
MMG Ltd.
Belgian Committee for UNICEF
Umicore
Bulgaria
Happy Bar & Grill
Brazil
Petrobras
Samsung
Sanofi
AMIL
Celpe/BNDES
Fundação Itaú Social
Canadian UNICEF Committee
Teck Resources Ltd.
China
Haier Group
Porsche (China) Motors Ltd.
Tencent Foundation
Colombia
Grupo Familia
Dutch Committee for UNICEF
Nationale Postcode Loterij
Ecuador
Diners Club International
Finland
Nokia
France
Clairefontaine
Fondation Chanel
Fondation L’Oréal
Gémo
L’Occitane
Néo-Soft
German Committee for UNICEF
HUGO BOSS AG
United Internet for UNICEF
Foundation
Hong Kong Committee for
UNICEF
Chow Tai Fook Jewellery Company Ltd.
Asia Miles Ltd.
Sunshine Forever Limited
S.F. Express (Hong Kong) Ltd.
India
Exide Industries
Johnson & Johnson India
Indonesia
Philips Lighting Indonesia, PT
Italian Committee for UNICEF
Aspiag Services S.R.L.
Moncler

Japan Committee for UNICEF
AEON 1% Club Foundation
MUFG Bank, Ltd.
Consumers’ Co-Operative Kobe
Consumers’ Co-Operative Mirai
COOP SAPPORO
Co-op Deli Consumers’ Co-operative
Union
Fuji Television Network, Inc.
(FNS Charity Campaign)
GSTV Co., Ltd.
Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
IDOM Inc.
ITOHAM FOODS Inc.
Japanese Consumers’ Co-operative
Union
Kao Corporation
SARAYA Co., Ltd.
Sugarlady Co., Ltd.
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corporation
Sumitomo Mitsui Card Company, Ltd.
U CO-OP Consumer Co-Operative
Society
Korean Committee for UNICEF
BGF Retail
DFD Group
Korea Seven
Big Hit Entertainment
Lotte Giants
NXC Corporation
S.M. ENTERTAINMENT
WINIX
FASHION GROUP HYUNGJI
Malaysia
BonusKad Loyalty Sdn. Bhd.
Mexico
Grupo Financiero Santander
Laboratorios Liomont
Yakult
International Zinc Association
Fundación Manuel Antonio Da Mota
Fundación Cinépolis
New Zealand Committee for
UNICEF
Les Mills International
Norwegian Committee for
UNICEF
KIWI Norge AS
Romania
JYSK Romania
Romgaz
Spanish Committee for UNICEF
Banco Santander
El Corte Inglés
Forletter
FOXY - Industrie Cartarie Tronchetti

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

Fundación Aquae
Fundación Iberostar
Fundación Nous Cims
Fundación Probitas
Iberia
RIU Hotels & Resorts
Tubacex
Swedish Committee for UNICEF
Brynäs Hockey
M-magasin
NCC AB
Svenska PostkodLotteriet
Swiss Committee for UNICEF
Roche Employee Action and
Charity Trust
International Olympic Committee
Thailand
Central Food Retail Co., Ltd.
Sansiri Public Company Ltd.
United Kingdom Committee for
UNICEF
ATP Tour
BT Group plc
Burberry Group plc
Ethical Tea Partnership
GlaxoSmithKline
London Stock Exchange Group
Foundation
Manchester United Football Club
Twinings
VitalityHealth
United States Fund for UNICEF
Apple Inc.
Applied Medical
Avery Dennison Foundation
Becton Dickinson Pharmaceutical
Systems
The Container Store
Facebook
Florida Panthers Hockey Club Ltd
Georgia-Pacific
Google
Hasbro
HSN
Johnson & Johnson, Inc.
L’Oréal USA – Giorgio Armani
Fragrances
Pfizer Inc.
Prudential
Revive Missions
S’well Bottle
Target Corporation
UPS Foundation
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
Banco Occidental de Descuento

83

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 National Committee donors, 2017
(revenue* in millions of US dollars)
COUNTRY

REGULAR RESOURCES

United States

OTHER RESOURCES

TOTAL

34

304

111

21

132

Republic of Korea

92

18

109

Germany

45

51

96

Sweden

43

43

86

United Kingdom

21

54

75

Spain

55

18

73

France

49

18

67

Netherlands

41

17

58

Italy

36

4

40

5

20

25

Denmark

13

10

23

Finland

14

9

22

Hong Kong, China

14

6

20

Canada

10

6

16

Belgium

6

10

16

Norway

10

5

15

Australia

6

6

12

Ireland

3

4

8

Poland

5

3

8

Japan

Switzerland

338

* National Committee ranking is based on revenue amounts in order to be comparable to fundraising plans that are also revenue-based.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.	

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017
(in US dollars)
OVERVIEW

Regular resources

Other
Contributions ***

Other resources

Public sector

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

579,896,586

668,449,921

2,717,852,238

768,613,974

36,379,597

4,771,192,316

2. Intergovernmental
agencies

–

–

571,972,035

–

–

571,972,035

3. Non-governmental
organizations

–

1,070,039

–

235,271,945

–

236,341,984

4. Inter-organizational
arrangements

–

–

859,188,039

–

–

859,188,039

5. Other revenue**

–

–

–

–

–

138,049,228

579,896,586

669,519,960

4,149,012,312

1,003,885,919

36,379,597

6,576,743,603

1. Countries*

Grand Total

* Includes revenue from governments and UNICEF National Committees.			
** Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.			
*** Revenue for specific management activities.			
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.			

84

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017, continued

1. DONORS
Countries*	
Regular resources
Donors
Afghanistan
Andorra
Angola
Argentina
Armenia
Australia
Austria
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bhutan
Bolivia
(Plurinational
State of)
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Botswana
Brazil
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cameroon
Canada
Central African
Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Costa Rica
Côte d'Ivoire
Croatia
Czechia
Democratic
People's Republic
of Korea
Democratic
Republic of the
Congo
Denmark
Dominican
Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

67,853

–

5,924,171

–

–

27,852

256,485

25,682

306,131

–

5,992,024
616,150

220,000

–

2,449,305

–

–

2,669,305

130,000

14,106,881

–

13,157,653

8,807,417

36,201,950

116,590

–

–

–

–

116,590

48,717,511

5,622,391

21,391,710

6,406,017

–

82,137,629

1,264,346

3,342,568

1,559,973

838,772

–

7,005,659

50,610

–

–

–

–

50,610

195,575

–

–

–

–

195,575

–

–

–

62,251

–

62,251

71,871,949

9,858,031

12,019,524

6,419,865

–

100,169,368

–

–

500,167

–

–

500,167

24,124

–

–

–

–

24,124

28,553

–

–

–

–

28,553

40,000

–

225,000

74,457

–

339,457

–

–

29,621

–

–

29,621

–

–

100,000

–

–

100,000

1,618,600

1,347,440

975,776

8,237,369

3,149,695

15,328,881

57,500

143,943

228,289

899,472

241,330

1,570,534

–

–

245,863

–

–

245,863

–

–

117,491

–

–

117,491

350,000

–

–

–

–

350,000

–

–

21,213,113

–

–

21,213,113

12,597,201

6,255,434

121,707,031

10,145,014

–

150,704,679

73,237

–

6,040,817

–

–

6,114,054

54,160

–

6,374,361

–

–

6,428,521

77,000

1,633,994

–

1,232,787

1,547,012

4,490,794

1,650,469

727,857

3,073,551

10,380,412

1,388,517

17,220,806
6,445,334

–

1,535,145

258,598

2,910,400

1,741,190

70,000

–

–

–

–

70,000

748,450

–

1,332,589

–

–

2,081,039

18,476

–

–

22,332

–

40,809

12,600

–

34,753,166

–

–

34,765,766

52,387

461,281

–

2,062,783

1,150,688

3,727,138

–

2,499,678

228,854

831,725

–

3,560,257

130,070

–

–

–

–

130,070

318,000

–

5,030,067

–

–

5,348,067

9,657,566

12,778,090

37,016,193

10,133,593

–

69,585,443

88,000

–

–

221,328

–

309,328

–

607,954

–

4,187,160

1,041,477

5,836,591

–

–

–

22,547

–

22,547

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

85

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017, continued

Regular resources
Donors
Equatorial Guinea
Estonia
Ethiopia
Finland
France
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Greece
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Hong Kong, China
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran (Islamic
Republic of)
Iraq
Ireland
Israel
Italy
Japan
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's
Democratic
Republic
Lesotho
Liberia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Mali
Malta
Mauritania
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montenegro
Morocco
Myanmar
Namibia
Netherlands

86

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

108,612

–

–

–

–

108,612

336,961

–

1,127,013

–

–

1,463,974

292,662

–

2,552,597

–

–

2,845,259

5,971,770

13,521,705

13,712,265

8,864,780

–

42,070,519

3,609,342

48,983,142

27,718,563

17,581,578

–

97,892,624

89,452

–

–

–

–

89,452

–

–

2,060,229

–

–

2,060,229

155,000

–

25,000

–

–

180,000

16,912,264

44,745,280

483,484,505

51,360,047

–

596,502,095

148,512

–

–

–

–

148,512

–

1,863,328

–

332,808

–

2,196,136

350,000

–

21,399,479

–

–

21,749,479

621,000

–

–

–

–

621,000

–

14,088,794

–

6,178,560

–

20,267,354
3,322,884

2,796,153

358,086

–

168,646

–

1,288,561

3,832,314

3,518,756

560,905

–

9,200,537

1,787,351

–

3,629,242

1,709,102

2,900,000

10,025,695

163,965

869,356

687,379

4,046,187

2,320,513

8,087,400

26,408

6,658

–

–

–

33,066

48,785

–

–

–

–

48,785

7,684,098

3,445,978

7,623,025

4,312,018

–

23,065,120

–

–

–

51,792

–

51,792

5,312,869

35,961,088

40,575,113

4,402,869

–

86,251,939

19,018,327

111,381,634

142,003,728

21,048,514

–

293,452,203

2,000,000

–

–

–

–

2,000,000

176,970

–

185,000

–

–

361,970

150,000

–

10,194,175

161,058

–

10,505,232

200,000

–

5,050,000

3,249,388

–

8,499,388

50,000

–

–

–

–

50,000

10,700

–

–

–

–

10,700

120,000

–

250,000

66,740

–

436,740

–

–

2,071,274

–

–

2,071,274

25,100

–

97,561

–

–

122,661

178

–

41,057

76,406

–

117,641

2,771,967

1,058,620

7,388,953

2,196,055

–

13,415,594

–

–

938,122

157,106

–

1,095,227

–

–

2,981,841

–

–

2,981,841

362,735

6,680,839

100,000

4,158,902

2,191,787

13,494,264
108,500

108,500

–

–

–

–

–

–

17,773

–

–

17,773

20,610

–

125,223

–

–

145,833

214,000

800,014

15,419

4,862,083

2,074,795

7,966,310

26,853

–

321,711

–

–

348,563

125,400

–

–

–

–

125,400

18,912

–

–

–

–

18,912

101,107

–

–

–

–

101,107

87,756

–

–

–

–

87,756

120,000

–

–

–

–

120,000

273,985

40,706,494

62,819,811

17,021,150

–

120,821,440

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017, continued

Regular resources
Donors
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Nigeria
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Panama
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Poland
Portugal
Qatar
Republic of Korea
Republic of
Moldova
Romania
Russian
Federation
Sao Tome and
Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Serbia
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Sweden
Switzerland
Tajikistan
Thailand
Timor-Leste
Togo
Trinidad and Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab
Emirates
United Kingdom
United Republic of
Tanzania

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

253,757

1,200,770

517,635

2,703,785

–

42,500

–

–

782

–

4,675,947
43,282

2,067,455

–

15,882,944

31,746

–

17,982,145

47,970,048

9,570,687

156,022,475

5,134,214

–

218,697,423

–

–

900,000

–

–

900,000

54,783

–

5,684,242

–

–

5,739,024

715,000

–

300,000

2,271

–

1,017,271

–

–

–

740,705

–

740,705

–

253,476

–

986,938

481,021

1,721,435

48,941

813,011

–

3,263,758

1,355,019

5,480,728

–

5,068,220

1,617,287

2,594,423

–

9,279,930

226,635

4,973,296

11,848

1,569,864

–

6,781,643

–

–

–

34,623,970

–

34,623,970

3,900,000

91,794,726

53,545,377

17,681,147

–

166,921,250

60,000

–

–

115,000

–

175,000

125,000

15,675

–

975,181

–

1,115,855

1,000,000

–

1,400,000

15,537

–

2,415,537

19,500

–

–

–

–

19,500

1,108,768

663

50,000

6,244,823

–

7,404,254

60,954

–

–

–

–

60,954

51,000

24,661

–

430,118

186,185

691,965

384,000

–

2,610,767

–

–

2,994,767

50,000

–

–

10,754

–

60,754

11,614

75,469

289,132

221,756

–

597,971

30,517

886,652

33,452

244,207

–

1,194,830

–

–

625,000

–

–

625,000

435,700

–

–

–

–

435,700

–

–

–

923,215

474,166

1,397,380

190,894

–

16,250,000

–

–

16,440,894

583,515

55,120,034

4,441,268

17,554,545

–

77,699,362

35,500

–

–

2,319

–

37,819

121,400

591

–

–

–

121,991

84,527,727

42,663,598

114,519,741

42,882,695

–

284,593,760

23,015,855

4,647,553

14,672,479

20,011,331

–

62,347,218

32,400

–

–

–

–

32,400

510,725

3,022,143

–

11,138,151

1,616,313

16,287,332

100,000

–

–

–

–

100,000

26,000

–

5,751,217

–

–

5,777,217

15,000

–

–

–

–

15,000

17,778

–

–

–

–

17,778

242,715

1,814,305

1,000,000

968,098

–

4,025,118

125,246

–

–

–

–

125,246

469,000

–

–

1,041,148

–

1,510,148

–

–

–

473,001

–

473,001

100,000

25,403

2,744,626

14,386,885

–

17,256,914

53,691,275

21,174,887

484,895,706

53,865,291

–

613,627,160

22,000

–

5,268,203

–

–

5,290,203

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

87

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017, continued

Regular resources
Donors
United States
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Venezuela
(Bolivarian
Republic of)
Viet Nam
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Other
Revenue
Adjustments
Total

Public sector

Other
contributions **

Other resources

Private sector

Public sector

Private sector

Private sector

Total

132,500,000

33,574,227

695,280,371

304,312,495

2,330,000

1,167,997,093

72,450

1,612,678

–

1,331,569

1,375,509

4,392,205

310,000

–

–

–

–

310,000

–

–

–

177,928

37,169

215,097

34,254

–

–

–

–

34,254

257,520

–

–

–

–

257,520

–

–

8,355,924

–

–

8,355,924

29,945

599,569

–

350,936

–

980,450

233,672

37,125

-353,178

-9,515,371

-30,206

-9,627,958

579,896,586

668,449,921

2,717,852,238

768,613,974

36,379,597

4,771,192,316

* Includes revenue from governments and UNICEF National Committees.	
** Revenue for specific management activities. 	

2. INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES
(Public sector)	
European Commission
Other resources

568,643,280

Islamic Development Bank

7,287,634

UNITAID

776,617

Revenue Adjustments

-4,735,495

Total

571,972,035

3. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS
(Private sector)
Regular resources

Other

1,070,039

Subtotal

1,070,039

The Alexander Bodini Foundation

60,000

Alliance Côte d'Ivoire

89,407

Clinton Health Access Initiative
Education Cannot Wait Fund
End Violence Fund
Other resources

1,583,574

Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance

154,863,111

Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM)

42,943,127

Nutrition International

11,774,219

Partners in Health

171,000

Other

893,815

Revenue Adjustments

88

1,424,446
22,325,571

-856,326

Subtotal

235,271,945

Total

236,341,984

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

Total UNICEF revenue by source of funding, 2017, continued

4. INTER-ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
(Public sector)
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
Global Partnership for Education
International Labour Organization (ILO)

261,725

International Organization for Migration (IOM)

78,081

Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)

21,259

United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
Special Representative of the Secretary-General (SRSG) on Violence against Children

Other resources

5,201,277
46,884,058

55,712,861
40,000

United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC)

865,483

United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women)

378,499

United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS

3,000,000

United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA)

8,826,928

United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)

1,335,570

United Nations Development Group joint programmes
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS)
United Nations Trust Fund for Human Security (UNTFHS)
World Food Programme (WFP)
World Health Organization (WHO)
World Bank Group - International Development Association (WBG-IDA)
Revenue Adjustments

65,938,902
143,228,953
7,904,993
318,702
1,351,875
459,783
521,661,662
-4,282,572

Total

859,188,039

5. OTHER REVENUE*
Total

138,049,228

GRAND TOTAL
6,576,743,603

* Other revenue includes revenue from investments, procurement and other sources.
Note: Numbers may not add up because of rounding.

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

89

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

04 PARTNERSHIP AND STEWARDSHIP

Top 20 partners to regular resources by contributions received, 2017
(in millions of US dollars)
COUNTRY

REGULAR
RESOURCES

United States

133

Japan (NC*)

111

Republic of Korea (NC)

99

Sweden

85

United Kingdom

54

Spain (NC)

53

Norway

48

Germany (NC)

44

France (NC)

44

Sweden (NC)

42

Netherlands (NC)

41

Italy (NC)

35

United States (NC)

35

Switzerland

24

Netherlands

20

Japan

19

Belgium

18

Germany

17

Australia

16

United Kingdom (NC)

14

* National Committee for UNICEF.

90

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

Connect with us
UNICEF
www.unicef.org
UNICEF Voices of Youth
www.voicesofyouth.org

blogs.unicef.org

www.twitter.com/unicef
twitter.com/voicesofyouth

www.facebook.com/unicef
www.facebook.com/voicesofyouth

www.instagram.com/UNICEF

https://plus.google.com/+UNICEF

www.unicef.tumblr.com

www.linkedin.com/company/unicef

www.youtube.com/unicef

UNICEF | ANNUAL REPORT 2017

91

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

For every child
Whoever she is.
Wherever he lives.
Every child deserves a childhood.
A future.
A fair chance.
That’s why UNICEF is there.
For each and every child.
Working day in and day out.
In 190 countries and territories.
Reaching the hardest to reach.
The furthest from help.
The most left behind.
The most excluded.
It’s why we stay to the end.
And never give up.

Published by UNICEF
Division of Communication
Published
by UNICEF
3 United Nations
Plaza
New York,ofNY
10017, USA
Division
Communication
3 United Nations Plaza
pubdoc@unicef.org
New
York, NY 10017, USA
www.unicef.org
pubdoc@unicef.org
ISBN: 978-92-806-4966-9
www.unicef.org
ISBN:978-92-806-4967-3
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)
© United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF)

ISBN 9789280649673

June 2018
2018

9 789280 649673

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

