United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction
2018 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

© 2019 UNITED NATIONS
For additional information, please contact:
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR)
9-11 Rue de Varembé, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland, Tel: +41 22 917 89 08
Note: The designations employed and the presentation of maps in this report do not imply
the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of the Secretariat of the United Nations
concerning the legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of its authorities or concerning
the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries.
Cover: A woman in the Tillaberi region of Niger who is part of an association called Cernafa,
watering plants. The cooperative uses organic farming practices which combat desertification by
preventing land degradation and soil erosion (World Bank).

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction
2018 Annual Report

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

FOREWORD
Events of 2018 have underlined the importance of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction to broader humanitarian
and development agendas, including undergirding the success
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, advancing
the climate change agenda, reducing humanitarian loss and
improving poverty reduction efforts.
In 2018, some 60 million people were affected by extreme
weather events around the globe, while earthquakes, tsunamis
and volcanic activity took thousands of lives. Millions of people
were displaced, notably by floods, drought and storms.

Special Representative of the
UN Secretary-General for Disaster Risk
Reduction Ms. Mami Mizutori

These disaster events demonstrated once more the importance
of setting and reaching targets for: reducing mortality, the
numbers of people affected, economic losses, and damage to
critical infrastructure.
It was an important moment therefore, when, in March, we
launched the Sendai Framework Monitor. This monitoring
system provides the Member States, for the first time, with a
universally available tool to benchmark disaster losses against
future progress in reducing those disaster losses. This is done
by tracking implementation of the Sendai Framework’s seven
targets.
By the end of the year, 88 countries were actively using the
Sendai Monitoring System and I am looking forward to the
findings from these first rounds of reporting being revealed
and discussed at the 2019 Global Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction in Geneva.
As global interconnectivity grows, the world shrinks! Shocks,
stresses and risks which may once have been confined to a
limited geographical area, are increasingly threatening all of
us. It is just as vital, therefore, that the world has a united and
joined-up approach to reducing risk in all its forms. The United
Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction sits at the heart of
the United Nation’s combined efforts to manage disaster risk.
Our convening power was demonstrated throughout the year
as regional platforms for disaster risk reduction took place
across the world in Africa, the Americas and Caribbean, the
Arab States, Asia-Pacific and Europe.
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to the host countries,
not only for the organization of these events but for their
participation at the highest political levels. President Juan
Manuel Santos of Colombia, host of the Americas and Caribbean
regional platform, rightly pointed out “Working together we will
achieve more; we will be able to respond better.”

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

Opening the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, the Prime Minister of Mongolia,
Khurelsukh Ukhnaa, urged increased action at the local level, a key concern now as the 2020 deadline
for target (e) approaches, wherein we must ensure a substantial increase in the number of countries
with national and local strategies for disaster risk reduction.
On numerous occasions during the year we were reminded of the pressing need to scale up the
level of our ambition to reduce disaster risk, not least by the dire scenarios described by the InterGovernmental Panel on Climate Change in the Special Report on Global Warming at 1.5˚C and our
own examination of twenty years of economic losses issued in a report issued on the occasion of the
International Day for Disaster Reduction in October.
We are aware, perhaps as never before, as Commissioner Josefa Sacko of the African Union wryly
remarked at the first-ever joint Africa-Arab Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in Tunis, “We have
a lot of papers on our shelves but need to pass to action.”
At the same Platform, Minister of Local Affairs and Environment, Tunisia, Riadh Mouakher, expressed
hope for new partnerships to strengthen vulnerable areas and identified the need to address the
lack of capacity to address pressures induced by climate change through improving monitoring
databases.
I was impressed with the Italian Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte’s declaration at the opening of the
European Forum in Rome, that “disaster risk reduction is fundamental for all governments.” He also
highlighted the fact that increased public awareness must be a vital part of Italy’s new national plan
to implement the Sendai Framework, particularly in terms of outreach to children and youth.
As the year closed, youth around the world expressed their dissatisfaction with the current state of
affairs inspired in part by the words of (then) 15-year-old Greta Thunberg from Sweden, speaking
at the COP24 in Katowice: “I hear people saying that climate change is an existential threat, yet I
watch as people carry on like nothing is happening.”
Here at the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction, we are committed to the transformation
necessary to ensure that disaster risk reduction efforts are ambitious and in synch with other
international agendas including action on climate change, urban resilience, implementation of the
Sustainable Development Goals, the Agenda for Humanity and the Financing.
I am grateful to all our partners and thankful to our staff for their hard work during the year. We
are looking forward to welcoming many of you to Geneva to share ideas, initiatives and progress in
disaster risk reduction, and building resilience, sustainability and inclusion at the Global Platform in
May 2019.

Mami Mizutori
United Nations Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for Disaster Risk Reduction

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

Workers carrying sand bags to be pitched on the banks of the river Brahmaputra in Gumi village, Guwahati, Assam, India. This protects the
village from flooding through preventing soil erosion of the riverbank (Asian Development Bank).

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

8

Sendai Framework Chart

10

UNISDR Vision

11

UNISDR Work Programme Overview

12

Executive Summary

16

Strategic Objective 1

32

Strategic Objective 2

60

Strategic Objective 3

80

Enabler 1

92

Enabler 2

100

Financial Overview

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework for Disaster
TARGETS
SENDAI FRAMEWORK
FOR DISASTER RISK REDUCTION

a)	 Substantially reduce global disaster mortality by 2030, aiming to lower the average per
100,000 global mortality between 2020-2030
compared to 2005-2015

b)	 Substantially reduce the number of affected
people globally by 2030, aiming to lower the
average global figure per 100,000 between
2020-2030 compared to 2005-2015

EXPECTED OUTCOME
The substantial reduction of disaster risk and losses
in lives, livelihoods and health and in the economic,
physical, social, cultural and environmental assets of
persons, businesses, communities and countries

c)	 Reduce direct disaster economic loss in relation to global gross domestic product (GDP)
by 2030

d)	 Substantially reduce disaster damage to
critical infrastructure and disruption of basic
services, among them health and educational
facilities, including through developing their
resilience by 2030

e)	 Substantially increase the number of countries with national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies by 2020

GOAL
Prevent new and reduce existing disaster risk
through the implementation of integrated and
inclusive economic, structural, legal, social, health,
cultural, educational, environmental, technological,
political and institutional measures that prevent
and reduce hazard exposure and vulnerability to
disaster, increase preparedness for response and
recovery, and thus strengthen resilience

SCOPE AND PURPOSE
The present framework will apply to the risk
of small-scale and large-scale, frequent and
infrequent, sudden and slow-onset disasters,
caused by natural or man-made hazards as well as
related environmental, technological and biological
hazards and risks. It aims to guide the multi-hazard
management of disaster risk in development at all
levels as well as within and across all sectors

f)	 Substantially enhance international cooperation to developing countries through adequate and sustainable support to complement
their national actions for implementation of
this framework by 2030

g)	 Substantially increase the availability of and
access to multi-hazard early warning systems
and disaster risk information and assessments to people by 2030

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

Risk Reduction 2015-2030
PRIORITIES FOR ACTION
There is a need for focused action within and
across sectors by States at local, national,
regional and global levels in the following
four priority areas.
Priority 1 / Understanding disaster risk
Disaster risk management needs to be based on an
understanding of disaster risk in all its dimensions
of vulnerability, capacity, exposure of persons and
assets, hazard characteristics and the environment

Priority 2 / Strengthening disaster risk
governance to manage disaster risk
Disaster risk governance at the national, regional
and global levels is vital to the management of
disaster risk reduction in all sectors and ensuring the
coherence of national and local frameworks of laws,
regulations and public policies that, by defining roles
and responsibilities, guide, encourage and incentivize
the public and private sectors to take action and
address disaster risk

Priority 3 / Investing in disaster risk
reduction for resilience
Public and private investment in disaster risk
prevention and reduction through structural and
non-structural measures are essential to enhance
the economic, social, health and cultural resilience
of persons, communities, countries and their assets,
as well as the environment. These can be drivers of
innovation, growth and job creation. Such measures
are cost-effective and instrumental to save lives,
prevent and reduce losses and ensure effective
recovery and rehabilitation

Priority 4 / Enhancing disaster preparedness
for effective response, and to «Build Back
Better» in recovery, rehabilitation and
reconstruction
Experience indicates that disaster preparedness needs
to be strengthened for more effective response and
ensure capacities are in place for effective recovery.
Disasters have also demonstrated that the recovery,
rehabilitation and reconstruction phase, which needs
to be prepared ahead of the disaster, is an opportunity
to «Build Back Better» through integrating disaster
risk reduction measures. Women and persons with
disabilities should publicly lead and promote genderequitable and universally accessible approaches during
the response and reconstruction phases

GUIDING PRINCIPLES
•	 Primary responsibility of States to prevent
and reduce disaster risk, including through
cooperation

•	 Shared responsibility between central
Government and national authorities, sectors
and stakeholders as appropriate to national
circumstances

•	 Protection of persons and their assets while
promoting and protecting all human rights
including the right to development

•	 Engagement from all of society
•	 Full engagement of all State institutions of an
executive and legislative nature at national and
local levels

•	 Empowerment of local authorities and
communities through resources, incentives and
decision-making responsibilities as appropriate

•	 Decision-making to be inclusive and riskinformed while using a multi-hazard approach

•	 Coherence of disaster risk reduction and
sustainable development policies, plans,
practices and mechanisms, across different
sectors

•	 Accounting of local and specific characteristics
of disaster risks when determining measures to
reduce risk

•	 Addressing underlying risk factors costeffectively through investment versus relying
primarly on post-disaster response and
recovery

•	 «Build Back Better» for preventing the creation
of, and reducing existing, disaster risk

•	 The quality of global partnership and
international cooperation to be effective,
meaningful and strong

•	 Support from developed countries and partners
to developing countries to be tailored according
to needs and priorities as identified by them

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

UNISDR VISION
The Substantial Reduction of Disasters Risk and Losses for a Sustainable Future
MANDATE

F

Focal point of the United Nations system for disaster risk reduction and the custodian of the Sendai
Framework, supporting countries and societies in its implementation, monitoring and review of
progress

R
O

UM
H

I
AN

TY

AG
EN
D
A

S E ND A
IF
SO1 SO2 SO3
Enabler 1

SO1 SO2 SO3

A

and application

Intergovernmental
processes,
partnerships

Creating a virtuous cycle of
knowledge and action across
unisdr strategic objectives
Risk data and
information,
good practice, policy
guidance,
tools and capacity
building
SO2 SO3

O RK
EW WORK
M
A Me

SENDA
R
I
Knowledge and
FR
evidence generation

Monitoring and
reporting
SO2 SO3

A
AB
AB

SD

IS
A DD

G

T
AC

N

RIS

AGREEMENT

I

O

s

PA

10

AG
EN
D

A

BAN
NEW UR

A
ND
E
AG

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

UNISDR WORK PROGRAMME
OVERARCHING OBJECTIVE

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES

The prevention of new and reduction of existing disaster risk and strengthening resilience through
successful multi-hazard disaster risk management.

1
Strengthen global
monitoring,
analysis and
coordination of
Sendai Framework
implementation

RESULTS

1.1

2
Support to
regional and
national Sendai
Framework
implementation

2.1

Global Progress of
the Sendai Framework
& related SDG targets
assessed

Regional & national
coordination
mechanisms leveraged
to monitor & accelerate
Sendai Framework
implementation

1.2

2.2

Global risk data,
analysis and policy advice
generated

National disaster risk
reduction strategies &
plans developed in line
with Sendai Framework
prescribed guidance

1.3

2.3

Global coordination
and accountability
mechanisms convened

Build capacity of
counterparts, UNCTs
and partners for DRR
leadership

ENABLERS

Enabler 1

Effective knowledge management, communication and
global advocacy

Enabler 2

Strengthened organizational performance

3

Catalyse action
through Member
States and Partners

3.1

Fostered policy
coherence by engaging
with Member States
and key partners and
contributing to relevant
intergovernmental
processes.

3.2

Coordination & advice
is provided to all United
Nations System partners
at global level towards
effective and efficient
implementation of the
Sendai
Framework.

3.3

Partnerships leveraged for
increased financing for
disaster risk reduction
and risk-sensitive
investment.

3.4

All of society
engagement and
action promoted
through strengthening
partnerships with key
stakeholders.

11

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

2018 was another costly year both in loss of life and livelihoods as a result of disasters. Wildfires
across Europe and North America, earthquakes and tsunamis in Southeast Asia, floods across Asia,
heatwaves in South Asia, drought in South America and Africa, landslides in Africa and Asia and a
destructive volcano in Central America all increased global awareness regarding the need to invest
in disaster risk reduction.
This 2018 Annual Report provides an overview of the results achieved by the United Nations Office
for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR) towards its vision, the sustainable reduction of disaster risk
and losses for a sustainable future, vis-à-vis its guiding documents, the UNISDR Strategic Framework
2016-2021, the UNISDR Work Programme 2016-2019 and its Results Frameworks (result based
management framework available electronically).
As recognised by Sendai Framework paragraph 28c, Regional Platforms are critical instruments for
advancing disaster risk reduction, in order to forge partnerships, periodically assess progress on
implementation and share practice and knowledge on disaster risk-informed policies, programmes
and investments, as well as to promote the integration of disaster risk management in other relevant
sectors. In 2018, UNISDR organized Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction in AsiaPacific, Americas-Caribbean, Europe and a combined Africa-Arab regional platform in Tunisia. UNISDR
also organised a sub-regional platform for the Central-Asia South Caucasus region.
The Regional Platforms, coupled with data from the Sendai Framework Monitor informed global
processes, notably the 2018 High-Level Political Forum for Sustainable Development. Key
messages that emerged from all platforms in 2018, were the need for greater focus on target (e)
of the Sendai Framework, increasing the number of countries with national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies and the importance of inclusion.
In March 2018, UNISDR launched the Sendai Framework Monitor, a system for tracking progress
against both the 38 globally agreed indicators of the Sendai Framework and custom national indicators.
To reach the 88 countries using the Sendai Framework Monitor by the end of the year, UNISDR
delivered extensive training at global, regional and national levels to a wide variety of stakeholders.

UNISDR in Numbers

100%

Gender Parity
at Senior Level

12

100

Number of Staff
in 2018

99%

Extra-Budgetary
Funded

$40.8M
2018
Income

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

A reconstruction project in Nepal following the 2015 earthquakes that destroyed 91% of the houses in the Ramechhap district.
This project seeks to build back better including through masonry trainings and improved building design (Medair).

In alignment with the expanded scope of hazards of the Sendai Framework and the current risk
information landscape, UNISDR also significantly modified its approach to the development of its
flagship report, the United Nations Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction
(GAR) which will be launched at the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in May 2019. UNISDR
also started consultations with experts on gathering and generating risk data and information through
a new Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF).
To ensure that the 2019 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction is informed by the latest
discussions, challenges, innovations and successes related to disaster risk reduction, UNISDR held
extensive consultations with governments, the United Nations system partners and a wide variety
of stakeholders. To shape the substance and structure of the May 2019 Platform, UNISDR worked
closely with more than 300 stakeholders through 22 organizing teams.
In 2018, UNISDR also retrofitted its disaster loss database system (DesInventar Sendai) and launched
a system for tracking voluntary commitments to implement the Sendai Framework. DesInventar
Sendai allows Member States to continue to record and analyse disaster trends and impacts in
alignment with the Sendai Framework Monitor. The online system for tracking voluntary commitments
provides stakeholders with information about efforts to implement the Sendai Framework to avoid
duplication and maximise impact. In turn, UNISDR can monitor and take stock of the work done
to increase the effectiveness of stakeholders’ shared responsibility towards implementation of the
Sendai Framework.
In order to strengthen its engagement with partners and stakeholders, UNISDR developed a
Partnership and Stakeholder Engagement Strategy in 2018. This strategy sets out priorities
and expectations for partnerships, including definitions, guiding principles, value propositions and
engagement modalities in alignment with the global United Nations Reform process. UNISDR also
continued targeted engagement with key stakeholder groups including the science and technology
community, private sector, youth, women, parliamentarians and other key civil society actors.

13

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

2018 Highlights

87

National Strategies
completed or in progress
with assistance from
UNISDR

88

Countries using Sendai
Monitor to report on
progress

4,224

Cities participating in
Making Cities Resilient
Campaign

221

Local Governments that
completed Disaster
Resilience Scorecard SelfAssessments

+3,107

Government officials and
disaster risk reduction
stakeholders trained

14

Similarly, UNISDR conducted extensive global
consultations to develop a Strategic Approach
to Capacity Development published in 2018
as a living document. The document established
a common understanding on the topic of
capacity development within the disaster
risk reduction community by characterizing
outstanding capacity development needs in
light of common obstacles and constraints,
presenting key principles, elements and actions
that together help guide planning discussions,
providing targets and ideals and normalizing
practice across sectors.
In addition to the extensive Sendai Framework
Monitoring capacity development efforts,
throughout the year, UNISDR provided
regional, national and local level support to the
generation of disaggregated loss and risk data
and policy guidance for risk-informed decisionmaking and the development of national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies in line
with target (e) of the Sendai Framework.
In total, UNISDR trained more than 3,107
stakeholders globally in 2018.
To empower local authorities to better manage
disaster risk, UNISDR provided over 4,224
local governments signed up to the Making
Cities Resilient Campaign with tools, best
practices and policy guidance to implement the
Sendai Framework. In 2018, over 200 cities
completed a self-assessment of their state of
resilience utilising UNISDR’s Disaster Resilience
Scorecard for Cities and UNISDR provided
technical guidance to 20 pilot cities on the
development of Local Disaster Risk Reduction
Plans.
UNISDR continued to encourage mainstreaming
of disaster risk reduction across the United
Nations System through a variety of avenues in
2018, including the High-Level Political Forum for
Sustainable Development, membership in the
new United Nations Sustainable Development
Group, supporting the development of United
Nations Development Assistance Frameworks
(UNDAFs)
and
corresponding
guidance,
convening the UN Senior Leadership Group

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

on Disaster Risk Reduction, engagement in
the process of developing the United Nations
Global Compact for Migration and contributing
to a variety of on-going UN-wide reform
processes.
Throughout 2018, UNISDR continued extensive
efforts to raise awareness and achieve impact
through knowledge brokering efforts which
included finalising two Words Into Action
Guides and launching two others for public
comment. The guides are instrumental in
building local capacity through connecting best
practice with on-ground realities to improve
disaster risk reduction outcomes.
The PreventionWeb continued its growth
as the world’s only disaster risk reduction
knowledge platform, publishing more than
400 new entries each month and curating
services such as Ask-an-Expert sessions and
the Disaster Risk Reduction Voices Blog series.
The Sendai Seven Campaign with a focus on
target (c) was continued this year – reducing
economic losses – and the launch of the
report ‘Economic Losses, Poverty & Disasters
1998-2017’ highlighting the challenges of
collecting disaster-related economic data and
the dominance of extreme weather events. A
wide variety of products and activities were
generated in relation to the International Day
for Disaster Reduction and World Tsunami
Awareness Day. Activities ranged from highlevel panels and the production of publications
to the launch of an online game and videos.
The
efforts
to
mainstream
gender
equality and women’s empowerment were
recognised by UN-Women through the UN
System-Wide Action Plan on Gender Equality
and the Empowerment of Women (UN-SWAP)
as “best amongst United Nations Secretariat
entities in 2017” and the United Nations Office
for Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) audit
positively evaluated UNISDR’s performance in
2018.

Un-earmarked contributions to UNISDR
increased significantly in 2018 to US $16.7M
or 41 per cent of the total funding received
in 2018, up from US $6.4M or 23 per cent of
the total income received in 2017. This sharp
increase was mainly due to the fact that the
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided
unearmarked financial support. UNISDR also
continued to diversify its funding base in 2018,
adding four new donors, two Member States,
Cyprus and Czech Republic as well as the Enel
Foundation and Willis.
While UNISDR remained 99.2 per cent funded
through extra-budgetary resources from
voluntary contributions, with only one post
currently funded from the UN Regular Budget,
it strongly appreciated that the need to allocate
additional resources was agreed in 2018 by
Member States in the Second Committee of the
UN General Assembly (A/C.2/73/L.15/Rev.1).

Recognizes the continued
importance of voluntary
funding and urges
existing and new donors
to provide sufficient
funding and, where
possible, to augment
financial contributions
to the United Nations
trust fund for disaster
reduction to support
the implementation of
the Sendai Framework,
including through
unearmarked and,
where possible, multiannual contributions.
UN General Assembly (A/C.2/73/L.15/
Rev.1), Paragraph 40

In 2018, UNISDR raised US $40.8 million
against a requirement of US $43.1 million.

15

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

16

S01

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

S01

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE 1
Strengthen Global Monitoring,
Analysis and Coordination
of Sendai Framework
Implementation

RESULT 1.1
Global progress of the Sendai
Framework and related SDG
targets assessed
RESULT 1.2
Global risk data, analysis and
policy advice generated
RESULT 1.3
Global coordination and
review mechanisms 	
convened

Through Strategic Objective One (SO1) of its
Work Programme 2016-2019, UNISDR seeks
to ensure that risk knowledge and data to
measure progress are systematically collected
and analysed and that global coordination
and accountability mechanisms are delivered
and leveraged. In 2018, UNISDR supported
the global disaster risk reduction community
to make significant advances in gathering
and using data related to implementation of
the Sendai Framework, and corresponding
SDGs, through the launch of the Sendai
Framework Monitor and accompanying
capacity development opportunities. UNISDR
significantly modified its approach to the
development of its flagship report, the United
Nations Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR). It now
includes analysis on the expanded scope of
hazards introduced in the Sendai Framework
and focus on the systemic nature of risk.
UNISDR began applying a new approach
to gathering and generating risk data
and information through the Global Risk
Assessment Framework (GRAF). UNISDR
also fostered and coordinated a broad base of
stakeholders throughout the year to advance
preparations for the 2019 Global Platform
for Disaster Risk Reduction. The following
section provides a detailed overview of the
results achieved at the global, regional and
national levels in 2019.

Participants at an Advisory Meeting in Bonn, Germany
on Regional Monitoring of the Sendai Framework
implementation, organised by UNISDR discuss and learn
about the analytics module of the Sendai Framework
Monitor (UNISDR).

17

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

S01

Sendai Framework Monitor
In March 2018, UNISDR launched the Sendai
Framework Monitor1, the online platform
for UN Member States to report on progress
against the seven global targets of the Sendai
Framework (through its 38 indicators) and
corresponding Sustainable Development Goals
1, 11 and 13, as well as customised national
indicators. This was a significant milestone, as
the quantifiable and comparable nature of the
data enables enhanced understanding from the
international to national and sub-national level
about progress being made in implementing
the wealth of guidance embodied in the Sendai
Framework. The Sendai Framework Monitor is
also a tool to guide risk-informed policy
decisions and to allocate resources accordingly
towards reducing risk.
The Sendai Framework Monitor was designed
in close consultation with a broad base of
stakeholders and it was released as three
modules in 2018. The first module allows for
data entry related to the Sendai Framework
global targets and indicators, agreed by all
United Nations Member States. The second
module allows for data entry related to custom
targets and indicators. This gives Member

States the opportunity to develop their own
nationally determined custom targets and
indicators to support the monitoring of their
National Strategies for Disaster Risk Reduction
and produce national reports as required, thus
demonstrating their progress in implementing
the Sendai Framework. The third module is an
analytics module, which allows all validated
information to be filtered for comparison
by target, indicator, year and/or region and
accessed as charts, maps and tables. This
third module is publicly available and enables
Member States to demonstrate their progress in
contributing to the global targets and indicators
of the Sendai Framework. It also shows how
countries stand in their efforts on risk reduction
as compared across time (e.g. with the period
of the Hyogo Framework for Action 2005-2015)
and space (across countries and regions).
The Technical Guidance Notes2 which
were launched in January 2018, explain the
computational methodology for each target
and indicator. They include minimum dataset
requirements as well as the recommended
optimal dataset (including disaggregation by
gender, age, etc.). They clarify the required

88 Countries Using the Sendai Framework Monitor*
35
30
32

25
20
15
10

20
15

5

12

9

0
Africa

Arab States

Europe

Asia-Pacific

*As of 31 December 2018

18

Americas-Caribbean

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

S01

Countries Using the Sendai Framework Monitor*

*As of 31 December 2018

metadata, including the content, methodology
and
other
issues
such
as
coverage,
representation and quality. In the development
of these Technical Guidance Notes, UNISDR
worked closely with Member States and
specialised United Nations entities, notably
the United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD),
and the statistics offices of the United Nations
Regional Economic Commissions.
To further support Member States in the
collection, use and analysis of disaggregated
data3 through use of the Sendai Framework
Monitor, UNISDR regional offices led a
comprehensive
capacity
development
effort in their respective regions. The primary
target audience of these regional, sub-regional
and national level trainings were nationally
nominated Sendai Framework Focal Points from
a variety of government entities responsible
for the data input, sharing and validation.
National Statistical Offices (NSOs), and other
stakeholders, as appropriate also took part in
the trainings.

In order to enhance the reach of capacity
development activities, a training-of-trainers
workshop was held in Bonn in September
2018. This event provided participants with
the opportunity to understand the Sendai
Framework Monitoring process and to get firsthand experience in using both the Monitor and
DesInventar Sendai which is a widely used
disaster loss database managed by UNISDR.
The training enabled participants who came
from different regions, to master the use
of both systems, and be able to apply their
knowledge as trainers to support others, in
their own region and globally, in fulfilling their
monitoring and reporting requirements.
To ensure effective implementation of the
Sendai Framework at the regional level,
including through regional intergovernmental
organizations, UNISDR organised an “Advisory
Meeting on the Regional Monitoring of the
Implementation of the Sendai Framework”,
in Bonn in September 2018. Over two days,
the regional inter-governmental organizations

19

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

S01

Women gather firewood during a drought in Kenya (IHH Humanitarian Relief Foundation).

developed a common understanding of how
the Sendai Framework Monitor could support
the monitoring at the regional level, including
through the regional disaster risk reduction
strategies and action plans.
Building on a full year of work rolling out the
Sendai Framework Monitor, a Technical Forum
on leveraging the process in support of the
implementation of the 2030 Agenda4 and the
Paris Agreement was organised in November
in Bonn, Germany. The event provided an
opportunity to learn about data collection
and reporting requirements regarding the
implementation of the Sendai Framework as
well as to discuss and review how coherence
with other global agendas such as the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development and the
Paris Agreement on Climate Change could be
strengthened through the Sendai Framework
Monitor. The training also provided an excellent
opportunity for participants to learn from each
other how different countries were tackling the
monitoring issue within their own capacity and
limitations.

20

2018 saw three milestones for data
uploading which contributed to global
stocktaking of the 2015 intergovernmental
agreements. The first milestone, 31 March
2018, compiled 2017 data submitted by
Member States on targets (a), (b), (c), (d) and
(e). This data was analysed and used to inform
deliberations of the 2018 High-Level Political
Forum on Sustainable Development (HLPF).
The data and its analysis were also incorporated
into the SDG report launched at the HLPF. The
second milestone, 15 October 2018, gathered
data reported for all targets from (a) to (g) for
2015, 2016 and 2017, and provided a critical
input for the 2019 Global Assessment Report
on Disaster Risk Reduction (GAR 2019), which
will be launched at the Global Platform in 2019.
The data reported by the second milestone
was also shared with other global stocktaking
exercises, including the 2030 Agenda,the Paris
Agreement, the Addis Ababa Action Agenda and
the Small Island Developing States Accelerated
Modalities of Action (SAMOA) Pathway. By
the end of 2018, 88 countries were using
the Sendai Framework Monitor to report on

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

implementation. UNISDR will continue working
with Member States towards the three planned
reporting milestones in 20195.
To build capacity in the use of the Sendai
Framework Monitor in the Americas and
Caribbean Region, regional training events
were organized at the 2018 Regional Platform
for Disaster Risk Reduction and sub-regional
events in Central American, Andean and
Southern Cone Regions, training close to 100
participants from approximately 20 countries.
The Regional Office also provided one-on-one
virtual support to individual countries when
countries requested detailed support regarding
precise information requirements for specific
indicators. The Regional Office also took part
at a regional working group on disaster risk
reduction statistics in collaboration with the
United Nations Economic Commission for
Latin America and the Caribbean (ECLAC).
Additionally, UNISDR worked to provide handson training and guidance for the application of
DesInventar Sendai and the Sendai Framework
Monitor in Chile, Costa Rica and Uruguay6.

S01

In the Arab States Region, UNISDR organised
two regional workshops to provide hands-on
training on Sendai Framework Monitor and
DesInventar Sendai. The first in Cairo, was for
Sendai Framework National Focal Points from
11 countries. The second in Bonn, brought
together 34 Sendai Framework National Focal
Points and statisticians from 16 Arab countries.
Both provided an opportunity for exchange
of experience in using the monitor and loss
database systems and in strengthening
disaster risk reduction governance. In addition,
a full-day session was organized on the
Sendai Framework Monitor and DesInventar
Sendai during the Joint Africa-Arab Regional
Platform where more than 50 Arab and
African country representatives actively
participated. A regional training workshop for
African Member States, on the development
of national and local disaster risk reduction
strategies using the nationally-determined
custom indicators was also organized.
Based on country requests, UNISDR delivered
country-specific training workshops in the Arab
States Region for national counterparts and
line ministries of Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon
and Qatar were delivered. In all trainings,
UNISDR built understanding of the Sendai
Framework, the Arab Strategy for Disaster
Risk Reduction and coherence across global
agendas was fostered. The role of national
disaster risk reduction national platforms
is also underscored as a key mechanism to
support the comprehensive implementation
and monitoring of, and reporting on the Sendai
Framework7.
In the Africa Region, in order to monitor
capacity across the continent, UNISDR
organised a series of regional workshops in four
African Regional Economic Communities – the
Intergovernmental Authority on Development
(IGAD), the Southern African Development
Community (SADC), the Economic Community
of West African States (ECOWAS) and the
Economic Community of Central African States
(ECCAS). UNISDR also provided country specific
trainings. In one such training in Ethiopia,

21

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

S01

participants from different Ministries in the
Government agreed to set up a small technical
group of experts to coordinate on Sendai
Framework Monitor reporting and to discuss
technical aspects of the platform including
assignment of roles in the system (who should
validate the data, which institution should be the
owner of which target/indicator etc.) and reach
agreement on metadata entries. The Ministry of
Finance of Ethiopia actively participated in the
workshop and in-depth discussions were held
regarding the challenges related to tracking
budget allocations to disaster risk reduction.
Participants highlighted the need for continued
support in data collection and discussed
solutions for taking conflict into consideration
through the Sendai Framework Monitor.
The Regional Office for Europe provided
direct assistance to seven Member States on
the Sendai Framework Monitor methodology,
configuration and data collection. The Office
organised a two-day training for Central Asia
and South Caucasus countries, as well as a
one-day specific event for all Sendai National
Focal Points in the region during the European
Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction. To capture
and share good practices and national
experiences utilising the Sendai Framework
Monitor, UNISDR conducted interviews with
Croatian officials for use in the development
of an e-learning tool. Croatia was one of the
first countries to complete a Sendai Framework
Monitor report by the end of 2018; it engaged
twelve national entities through 19 active users
in the reporting process. UNISDR also facilitated
exchanges among Sendai Framework National
Focal Points for better sharing of practices
related to national structures for reporting. As
a result of this support, 32 European countries
had initiated reporting by the end of 2018.
Most countries validated data in due time for
annual reporting.
The Asia-Pacific Office built monitoring and
reporting capacity in the region through incountry trainings, remote technical support,
regional and national workshops. Notably, six
regional workshops were held for South East

22

“I have learned the way to
implement these wonderful
tools, Sendai Framework Monitor
System and DesInventar. I
take it as my priority action
to share my experience in my
sub-region and I will work
along with my colleagues in
implementing these tools”.
Ms. Silvia Helden Molfino from CAPRADE (Comité
Andino de Prevención y Atención de Desastres)
speaking at a UNISDR training

Asia, South Asia, North East Asia and the
Pacific. Workshops were also held with United
Nations organizations to strengthen their
understanding and capacities8. Additionally,
five national workshops were held in
Afghanistan, Australia, Malaysia, Myanmar and
the Philippines. While the regional workshops
saw the participation from National Disaster
Management Offices and National Statistics
Offices (NSOs), the national workshops, led
by the country focal points, gained wider
participation including from all relevant
ministries, national development partners
and civil society. This extensive participation
was crucial for these countries to identify the
repositories of data for different indicators.
All five countries that had national workshops
reported through the Sendai Framework Monitor
in 2018 proving the value of providing capacity
building and bringing together stakeholders at
national level.

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

S01
Women create terraces as their contribution to the umunsi
w’umuganda program, a day of community service in
Rwanda. The planting of crops on the terraces helps
prevent soil erosion and landslides (World Bank).

23

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

S01

Launch and training of the Sendai Framework Monitor (UNISDR).

These workshops convened United Nations
agencies, non-governmental organizations and
national partners such as the Red Cross and Red
Crescent Societies to support the monitoring
process. They also helped governments
identify the data sources, coordinate with
all national partners, and gain the technical
capacity needed to collect and report on that
data. As a result of this support, 20 countries
successfully reported in 2018. More work is
needed to increase the number of countries
reporting as well as improving the overall
quality of the data.
While a range of training workshops have been
conducted to support countries, long-term and
sustainable assistance mechanisms have also
been pursued. This includes the development
of an online e-Learning course on the Sendai
Framework Monitor in partnership with the
Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre (ADPC).
This e-Learning course, planned for release
in 2019, will assist countries to maintain and
update their technical capacity and supplement
in-person workshops.

24

“The Sendai Framework Monitor
is something we could use to
bring everyone on board –
from the Ministry of Finance
and Planning as well as other
parts of government – all
working together to strengthen
overall disaster management
and risk reduction efforts.”
Mr. Leveni Aho, Head of Tonga’s National Emergency
Management Office

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework Monitoring in the Asia-Pacific Region
Country Highlights
Myanmar

S01

Myanmar informed the Regional Office for Asia-Pacific that it would not have been able to report on the Sendai
Framework in 2018 without comprehensive technical support and guidance from the Office. Myanmar’s efforts
to report on the Sendai Framework provide a model of engagement for potential replication in other countries.
Following release of the online Sendai Framework Monitor, Myanmar formed a national committee made up of
national government stakeholders, Red Cross and the United Nations Development Programme to identify data
holders and gaps in existing data needed to report against the 38 Sendai Framework indicators. Two national
committee meetings and training sessions were held in the capital city of Nai Pyi Taw to train partners in using
the Monitor, to understand what data is needed and to agree on a uniform reporting methodology. Myanmar
utilised its existing national damage and loss database to assist in reporting.
By convening all relevant partners to review data requirements and with support from UNISDR, Myanmar was
one of the few countries in the Asia Pacific region that was able to report comprehensively on all seven targets
(a-g) of the Sendai Framework across all three requested years of data (2015-17). The detailed reporting will
be useful to the country in its use of the Monitor’s analytics tools and can complement the country’s national
damage and loss database to inform disaster risk reduction policies and programs. In addition, the process
directly involved a national committee comprised of government stakeholders, the Red Cross and United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) Country Office in data collection and sharing for increased coordination and
ownership of data collection, reporting and use of data to inform policies and activities.

Afghanistan
As a result of UNISDR technical support, Afghanistan has established formal reporting mechanisms which will
assist in reporting against both the Sendai Framework targets and the SDGs in future years. The mechanism is
comprised of 50 partners from across relevant government departments, United Nations agencies, donors and
the national Red Crescent Society.
At the request of the government, a national workshop was held in Kabul in June 2018 with these partners. This
workshop helped identify the data in Afghanistan in relation to the Sendai Framework indicators and the owners
of this data across the government ministries.
As a consequence of this workshop, the Afghanistan National Disaster Management Agency (ANDMA) was able to
garner support from other Ministries in order to report in the Sendai Framework Monitor in 2018. Furthermore,
Afghanistan also formally requested all government departments to identify a Sendai Focal Point to liaise directly
with the ANDMA and provide required data for monitoring. Afghanistan has now decided to invest further in
a damage and loss database in the country to assist in reporting and informing on disaster risk reduction
policies and activities. While acknowledging that more work is still needed to secure data from some ministries,
Afghanistan managed to report across all seven targets for the calendar year 2017.

Tonga
Tonga was one of ten countries in the Pacific that attended an introductory training on the use and application
of the Sendai Framework Monitor in March 2018 (Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, Federated States of Micronesia,
Palau, Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga and Vanuatu). The National Emergency
Management Office of Tonga highlighted in the training the great potential of the Sendai Framework Monitor to
better inform policymaking, improve coordination and preparedness and, in so doing, reduce disaster risk and
associated losses. Tonga appreciated that the Sendai Framework Monitor draws data from the Pacific Disaster
Loss Database (PDaLo) and can also be used to assess progress against the regional Framework for Resilient
Development in the Pacific as well as the SDGs and the Paris Agreement.
At the time of the training, Tonga was still reeling from the previous month’s Cyclone Gita which caused two
fatalities, damaged or destroyed over 1,000 homes and caused US$140 million in direct economic losses across
on Tonga’s two main islands Tongatapu (including the capital Nuku’Alofa) and Eua. The agricultural sector was
hardest hit with 90% of fruit trees and 40% of root crops destroyed. UNISDR continues to support Tonga and
the other countries in the Pacific, all of which are highly risk exposed due to climate-related hazards such as sea
level rise and the growing intensity of extreme weather events, in the use of the Sendai Framework Monitor to
build disaster resilience.
25

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

S01

Global Assessment Report on
Disaster Risk Reduction 2019
(GAR)
In 2018, UNISDR began preparations for the
UN Global Assessment Report on Disaster
Risk Reduction (GAR), the flagship report of
the United Nations on global efforts to reduce
disaster risk. The GAR 2019 is the first edition
to be published since the adoption of the 2015
international agreements, provides:
•	 an introduction to the systemic nature
of risk in the context of sustainable
development and interconnected systems;
•	 an analysis of national reporting in
implementing the outcome, goal, targets
and priorities of the Sendai Framework
and disaster-related Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), including
target (e) of the Sendai Framework – the
number of countries with national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies;
and
•	 an examination of the broadened scope
of hazards and risks of the Sendai
Framework.
Informed by cutting-edge, innovative research
and good practice in understanding and
managing risk, the GAR is developed through
an extensive set of partnerships with inter alia
academia, private sector, research institutes
and international organizations.
As with previous GARs, it is anticipated that
the GAR19 will contribute directly to strategic
policy guidance and advocacy in support
of regional and country implementation of the
Sendai Framework. GAR19 preliminary findings
indicate that the number of people affected
by disasters is rising both in real and absolute
terms. This is an important metric for policy
makers, as it highlights the need to double
down on disaster risk reduction efforts despite

26

the steady decline in loss of lives. This initial
finding is also relevant in global sustainable
development efforts, as it points to a hindrance
to development, especially when considering
that those affected are disproportionately
marginalised populations.
Another element
emerging from GAR19 that will require
continued analysis is the economic impact of
disasters. While global economic losses are
increasing in absolute terms it is important to
examine this data related to gross domestic
product, geographic distribution, income level
and other factors, to better understand the
economic impact of disasters on sustainable
development.
Four common threads run through the
GAR19 report:
•	 Coherence – integrated risk informed and
sustainable development pathways;
•	 Inclusion – consistent with the theme
Empowering people and ensuring
inclusiveness and equality 2019 High Level
Political Forum;
•	 Systems risk – dynamic interaction
of disaster risk with social, ecological,
economic and political systems; and
•	 Behaviour – appraising and evaluating
behavior, with and without risk knowledge
and action, and the conditions that
contribute to its change.
In 2018, UNISDR drafted a Concept Note for
GAR19 and convened a GAR Advisory Board
meeting to discuss it. On the basis of the
recommendations of the Advisory Board, the
Concept Note for GAR19 was finalised and a
Call for Papers for the 2019 Global Assessment
Report (GAR19) was issued in May 2018. The
Call for Papers encouraged additional research
investigating the contributing factors related to
the creation and propagation of disaster risk.

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

outlined9:
•	 Implementation of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk
Reduction and disaster risk-informed
Sustainable Development: a review
of global, regional, national and local
progress and challenges, including how
these impacted the achievement of the
2030 Agenda, the Paris Agreement and
the New Urban Agenda.
•	 Global risk trends: patterns and trends
in global disaster risk and vulnerability
– initiating the shift from a single model
to a global inter-comparison approach,
introducing interactions with systemic
risks with an emphasis on drought and
the Global Risk Assessment Framework
(GRAF)10.
•	 Creating the national and local
conditions to manage risk: reaching
Sendai Framework target (e) Substantially increase the number of
countries with national and local disaster
risk reduction strategies, exploring
progress in establishing the basis for
national and local risk-informed decisionmaking and investment across all-ofstate-institutions at national and local
levels.
•	 Introducing the broadened hazard
and risk scope of the Sendai
Framework: introducing man-made as
well as related biological, technological
and environmental hazards and risks –
identifying impacts, interrelationships with
natural hazards and existing measures –
and providing a preliminary investigation
of the dynamic interactions with systemic
risks that shape the interface with the
Sendai Framework and other international
agreements.

S01

The Call for Papers was structured around the
following four chapters with many sub-topics

To ensure papers were gathered from a broad
base, an extensive outreach campaign was
conducted to connect directly with hundreds of
research centres, academic institutions, private
sector entities and public institutes globally.
In response to the Call for Papers, UNISDR
received 230 abstracts of which 183 papers were
selected for further development. 165 papers
were subsequently received with 139 of these
being submitted for external academic peer
review. This is the first time that peer review
was carried out as part of the GAR process to
ensure academic integrity of the process. The
peer review was conducted by the University
of Auckland– editor of the international journal
Disaster Prevention and Management.
As a result of this process, more than 240
research
centres,
academic
institutions,
private sector entities and public institutes
worldwide provided dedicated contributions;
taken together with material that has informed
GAR19 drafting, the work of over 1,100
entities have been referenced and cited in
GAR19. The Zero Order Draft was produced
and presented for review by the GAR Advisory
Board in December 2018. The final report and
accompanying “Summary for Policy Makers”
will be launched and discussed at the Global
Platform in May 2019. The Main Report will be
available in digital format, supported by printed
versions of the “Summary for Policy Makers” in
all six United Nations languages. The shift to
digital publication demands a major revamp of
the GAR website. This revamp which began in
2018 and will continue into 2019, will enable
easy access to the data and research that
underpins the GAR19 findings.

27

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

S01

Understanding the multi-dimensional nature of risk:
Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF)
UNISDR recognised the need to adapt its Global Risk Assessment to the post-2015 environment;
notably with regard to the broadened scope of hazards and risks of the Sendai Framework,
but also to reflect the systemic nature of risk and the mutually-reinforcing relationship between the
Sendai Framework and the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Agreement, the New Urban
Agenda and the Agenda for Humanity. This prompted consultations at the end of 2017 which led to
the establishment of an Expert Group11 in June 2018 to guide the design and initial development of
the Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF).
The GRAF aims to improve the understanding and management of current and future risks, at all
scales, to better manage uncertainties and mobilise people, innovation and finance by fostering
interdisciplinary systems thinking and enabling the identification of the interlinkages and dependencies
of multiple risks and actors across systems, so as to enable decision-makers to act.
The diagram below represents one of the central constructs of the GRAF – the Impact Cube. This cube
seeks to represent the different dimensions of risk information that a broader range of users would
need in-line with Sendai Framework implementation. Drawing on the data, models, assessments and
analyses of multiple providers, the GRAF mission is to connect decision-makers at all scales with multi-

Global Risk Assessment Framework (GRAF) - Impact Cube

I’m an
Insurance Regulator
I’m insterested in:
• Earthquake Risk
• Global Level
• Economic Impact

SCALE
•
•
•
•

global
national
sub-national
local

I’m a
Government Official
I’m insterested in:

RISKS
• hazards
• exposure
• vulnerability

• Epidemic Risk
• Regional Level
• Human Impact

SYSTEMS
I’m a
Farming Cooperative
I’m insterested in:
• Drought Risk
• Local Level
• Agricultural Impact

28

•
•
•
•
•

human
ecological
economic
infrastructure
political

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

and political systems). In the earliest phases,
the available information would reach a limited
range of users and needs, but as the inputs
to the cube grow and our understanding of
user requirements matures, this cube would
become gradually richer, offering information
of progressively higher quality and relevance to
an increasingly diverse range of stakeholders.

S01

dimensional risk information. In this way, by
selecting a particular dimension from the cube,
users could extract precisely the information
they want about different risk types (natural
and anthropogenic), at specific geographic
scales (global, national, sub-national and
local) and with all measurable impact (across
human, ecological, economic, infrastructure

Regional Highlight - Arab Regional Assessment Report for
Disaster Risk Reduction
At the 1st Arab Partnership Meeting on Disaster Risk Reduction in April 2018, a multistakeholder group established by UNISDR to promote an all-of-society approach to disaster
risk reduction in the region, it was agreed that the Arab Region needed additional risk
information and analysis.
The stakeholders from across governments, civil society organizations, academia, nongovernmental organizations and United Nations agencies agreed that a dedicated report
should be developed to provide evidence-based understanding of risk in the region; take
stock of what is being done in the region towards reducing these risks; analyse key drivers
of risks through sectoral lenses; and identify the way forward for managing and preventing
new risks towards protecting sustainable development in the region. They decided that this
report should be referred to as the Arab Regional Assessment Report (RAR) and would be
complementary to the Global Assessment Report on Disaster Risk Reduction.
The group highlighted that in many risk prone Arab countries risk reduction is often not
a national development priority due to conflict and other competing issues. Therefore, a
key aim of the Report is to communicate the impact of disasters and the rapidly increasing
vulnerability and exposure in the Arab region which is making the population more
susceptible to suffer from small and medium scale external shocks. It will establish the
necessary linkages towards addressing the challenges of disaster risk reduction and climate
change adaptation within a broad framework of sustainable development and poverty
reduction.
UNISDR formally launched the process for the development of the Arab Regional
Assessment Report during the Africa-Arab Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction and, the
editorial committee for the report was formed12 at the 2nd Arab Partnership meeting held
in Lebanon. The report will include findings of the Global Assessment Report (GAR) and will
be developed through a similar multi-stakeholder process. The report will include findings
of the Global Assessment Report (GAR) and will be developed through a similar multistakeholder process. The report will be completed in time to inform the next Arab States
Regional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction.

29

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

S01

Global coordination and
accountability mechanisms
convened
The 6th session of the Global Platform for
Disaster Risk Reduction (GP2019) will take
place in Geneva, Switzerland from 13-17 May
2019, convened and organised by UNISDR
and hosted by the Government of Switzerland.
The overall theme for the event is Resilience
Dividend:
Towards
Sustainable
and
Inclusive Societies. Each day will be planned
around a specific focus, namely: Day 1- Taking
stock; Day 2- Risk-informed public and private
investments; and Day 3- Climate change
action and disaster risk reduction for all. The
preparatory days (13-14 May) will feature the
4th World Reconstruction Conference, organised
by the World Bank, as well as the 2nd MultiHazard Early Warning Conference, organised
by the World Meteorological Organization.
The Global Platform is a critical component of
the monitoring and implementation process
of the Sendai Framework and the leading
vehicle of the international community for
wide-ranging and comprehensive discussions
on understanding and managing risk. The
outcomes of the Global Platform inform the
deliberations of the 2019 High-Level Political
Forum on Sustainable Development thus
contributing to a risk-informed implementation
and monitoring of the 2030 Agenda for
Sustainable Development. The outcomes
will also provide critical inputs for the United
Nations Climate Summit in September 2019. In
addition, the Global Platform is now recognised
as part of the United Nations Secretary
General’s Integrated Platform for Prevention,
thus contributing to the wider Prevention
Agenda of the United Nations.
Preparations for the GP2019 began in late
2017 building on the lessons learned from an
internal review and feedback received from
2017 Global Platform participants. Preparations
were further scaled-up throughout 2018. It is
important to note that the entire preparatory

30

process has been guided by principles
of
inclusion
and
multi-stakeholder
engagement. To shape the thematic focus
of the GP2019, a consultation process with
governments, United Nations system and
all stakeholders was organised over several
months in 2018. This included both online
consultations and face-to-face meetings. As a
result of these consultations, the concept note
and draft programme were finalised in June
C100 M60 K20
2945 2018, and since then, 22 multi-stakeholder
G79 B145
organising teams have been working under
the guidance of UNISDR focal points, on shaping
the substance and structure of the sessions of
the official programme. The GP2019 website
was launched in October 2018 along with the
registration system13 .
The GP2019 will feature enhanced opportunities
for interactive dialogue and peer-to-peer
Version 11.06.2018_rv
learning both during
the official programme
as well as during many parallel events. In
addition to the traditional format of side events
and the Ignite Stage, new elements such as
the Innovation Platform and the Learning Labs
will be introduced. The urgency of achieving
target (e) of the Sendai Framework by 2020
will receive much attention throughout the
week and the programme has been designed
in a way that will allow ample space for sharing
of good practices and challenges in achieving
this target.

Development of policy
guidance and standards
As the availability of standardised metrics
for resilience will assist local governments to
determine their exposure to, and capacity to
cope with potential hazards, extreme events
or stresses while maintaining their essential
functions and safeguarding their population,
UNISDR worked closely with the World Council
for City Data and the International Organization
for Standardization (ISO) on the development
of ISO 37123 for Resilient Cities. The indicators
that comprise this standard are designed to

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

The results of the assessment are expected to
inform the decisions on this topic as the current
regulations are under review in the aftermath
of the disaster in Indonesia.

The Asia-Pacific Regional Office is leading
regional efforts to learn lessons from recent
disasters and make recommendations to
reduce future risks and losses. Notably, a
review of the tsunami in Central Sulawesi,
Indonesia, has been conducted in collaboration
with United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and research
organizations, to better understand the
challenges and opportunities in strengthening
“the last-mile” reach of the tsunami early
warning system. Focusing on the social aspects
of end-to-end early warning systems, the study
analyses the consequences of decisions made
‘upstream’ of the warning systems on the
ability of communities to take action and save
lives, in particular through self-evacuation.

Considering the high human and economic
impact attributed to soil liquefaction during
the 2018 Indonesia Sulawesi earthquake and
tsunami, UNISDR conducted a study on the
liquefaction hazard to explain the associated
mechanisms and the impacts of this complex
peril and to raise awareness on existing risks
aggravating factors and risk reduction options.
The knowledge generated through this study
which has mapped out main occurrence as well
as susceptibility factors, will help governments
in the region understand the policy implications
of dealing with liquefaction risks. The research
aims to raise awareness among exposed
citizens, stakeholders and local governments
in liquefaction-prone areas and recommend
approaches to assess, prevent and mitigate
the risk.

S01

help a city reflect on their status of disaster
resilience and on measures to improve the
same. The process of developing the standard
is expected to be completed by mid-2019.

Stakeholders at the “marketplace” of the Regional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in the Americas sharing information and
best practices (UNISDR).

31

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

2 STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE

S02

Support to Regional and National Sendai Framework
Implementation

32

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE 2

RESULT 2.1
Regional and national
coordination mechanisms
are leveraged to monitor and
accelerate Sendai Framework
implementation
RESULT 2.2
National disaster risk
reduction strategies and plans
are developed in line with
Sendai Framework prescribed
guidance

S02

Support to Regional and
National Sendai Framework
Implementation
Through Strategic Objective Two (SO2) of
the Work Programme 2016-2019, UNISDR
provides regional, national and local level
support to generate loss and risk data and
policy guidance for risk-informed decisionmaking and the development of national
and local disaster risk reduction strategies.
UNISDR also supports regional coordination,
including through the organization of
Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk
Reduction, as key regional coordination
and accountability mechanisms. In addition,
UNISDR works with United Nations Resident
Coordinators and Country Teams as well
as regional organizations in the context of
broader United Nations development system
reforms, to actively support national riskinformed United Nations Development
Assistance Frameworks.

RESULT 2.3
Build capacity of
counterparts, United Nations
Country Teams and partners
for leadership in disaster risk
reduction
Stakeholders draw storyboards at the ISDR Asia Partnership
Meeting and target (e) workshop to help participants
visually understand key components of disaster risk
reduction strategies (UNISDR).

33

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

Regional Platforms

S02

In 2018, UNISDR organised four Regional
Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction in
Colombia, Italy, Mongolia, Tunisia and one SubRegional Platform in Armenia. Regional Platforms
are recognized by the Sendai Framework as
a critical instrument for advancing disaster
risk reduction in order to forge partnerships,
periodically assess progress on implementation
and share good practices and knowledge on
disaster risk-informed policies, programmes
and investments, including on development
and climate issues as well as to promote the
integration of disaster risk management in
other relevant sectors (paragraph 28c). Each
of the five Platforms held were unique in their
focus, structure and outcomes while they all had
one key common message: the need to focus
efforts on achieving the Sendai Framework
target (e) by 2020, to increase the number of
national and local strategies for disaster risk
reduction.

Regional Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction in the Americas
The sixth Regional Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction in the Americas, hosted by the
Government of Colombia and organised jointly
with UNISDR in Cartagena, from 20 to 22
June, was an opportunity to review progress
made and provide guidance for moving
forward the regional action plan for the
implementation of the Sendai Framework in
the Americas. The Regional Platform adopted
the Cartagena Declaration14 called for the
development and strengthening of disaster
risk reduction plans and strategies in line
with target (e) of the Sendai Framework, and
the importance of strengthening institutional
frameworks to integrate disaster risk reduction
across development measures was recognized.
Member States highlighted the importance of
integrating disaster risk reduction in all sectors
and positioning disaster risk reduction as
a public policy priority at the national and
local levels. They recognised that this requires

34

strengthened public-private partnerships and a
commitment to invest domestic resources.
The Platform provided a space for all
stakeholders to advance the implementation
of the Sendai Framework in the region; it
renewed commitment to implementation of
the regional action plan at the Ministerial and
high authorities meeting; further strengthened
capacity of countries to measure the Sendai
indicators and a plan of action was discussed
to engage the Science and Technology
community. The Platform was attended by
1,354 participants from a wide variety of
stakeholder groups and the agenda of the
Platform was developed through a participatory
approach by an advisory council comprised of
17 representatives from governments, financial
institutions, civil society, private sector and
United Nations agencies. At a special session
on recovery in the Caribbean, it was
concluded that building resilience encompasses
five critical pillars: social protection for the most
vulnerable, the safeguarding of infrastructure,
economic
diversification,
environmental
protection and operational readiness. Jamaica
will host the Regional Platform in 2020 which
Member States decided to rename the Regional
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in the
Americas and the Caribbean.

Asian
Ministerial
Conference
Disaster Risk Reduction

on

The eighth biennial session of the Asian
Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk
Reduction (AMCDRR), and the second after
the adoption of the Sendai Framework, was
co-hosted by the Government of Mongolia
in Ulaanbaatar, from 3 to 6 July. With
UNISDR’s leadership, organising teams were
formed around themes and sessions which
saw active participation and contributions from
multiple partners and organizations. A drafting
committee developed the outcome documents
agreed to at the Platform: The Ulaanbaatar
Declaration and the 2018-2020 Action Plan15,
in addition to Voluntary Commitments16 issued
by the stakeholders17.

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

S02
H.E. Mr. U. Enkhtuvshin, Deputy Prime Minister of Mongolia and SRSG Mizutori participate in a small Naadam Festival
award ceremony at the 2018 Asian Ministerial Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction. Naadam is a traditional event held in
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia annually in July and features dancing, wrestling, horse racing, archery and music (UNISDR).

In the declaration adopted in Ulaanbaatar,
Member States resolved to implement the
Asia Regional Action Plan for the period
2018-2020 which focuses attention to where
greater efforts are needed to achieve the
Sendai Framework. To integrate disaster risk
reduction into sectoral plans, countries are
called upon to facilitate greater collaboration
between national disaster risk management
authorities and sectoral ministries, including
collaboration for the systematic collection,
analysis and dissemination of data on disaster
risk, loss and damage. The decentralization
of disaster risk reduction responsibilities,
supported by budget allocations, legislation
and policies that promote local leadership
in planning and implementation. Tools to
support local coordination were also promoted.
Furthermore, countries were encouraged to
ensure that disaster risk reduction strategies
are backed by investment frameworks, to
develop new, and strengthen existing, funding
mechanisms for disaster risk reduction and
to create an enabling environment for private

sector investment in disaster risk reduction.
This
includes
enforcing
infrastructure
construction regulations and adding disaster
risk reduction as a marker for the approval
of projects. The Action Plan also calls for the
enhancement of the role of the Asia-Pacific
Regional Coordination Mechanism, convened
by the Economic and Social Commission for
Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) And the United
Nations Regional Sustainable Development
Group for Asia-Pacific to support countries in
implementing the Sendai Framework.
Governments committed to accelerating
the disaster risk reduction agenda in the
region. The Platform resulted in concrete
recommendations
to
substantially
increase the number of national and local
disaster risk reduction strategies by 2020,
thereby achieving target (e) of the Sendai
Framework. UNISDR followed-up immediately
on these recommendations by producing an
analytical report that reviews the current
status of national disaster risk reduction

35

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

S02

A sign language interpreter providing simultaneous interpretation at the Africa-Arab Platform on Disaster Risk Reduction
(UNISDR).

strategies in the region and by organising a
consultative workshop on national and local
disaster risk reduction strategies. The Platform
also advanced regional efforts to promote
risk-informed
development,
particularly
as manifested through disaster resilient
infrastructure. The topic, organised as a
high-level featured event, brought forward the
outcomes of the International Workshop on
Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, co-organised
by the Government of India and UNISDR earlier
in the year.
Key thematic topics such as inclusion, local
action for resilience and coherence, formed
the guiding principles of the Action Plan
developed at the Conference. These topics
have since been translated into practice at
various levels and catalysed through the ISDRAsia Partnership Forum, organised in December
201818. Disaster-induced displacement, a
key issue in Asia-Pacific which accounted for
60 percent of global disaster displacements
in 201719, was highlighted as a key theme at
the AMCDRR and subsequent deliberations.
UNISDR has effectively mobilized its partners

36

and stakeholders towards mainstreaming these
cross-cutting elements across the development
agenda. In total, over 3,500 participants from
50 countries and over 1,500 organizations
participated. The Government of Australia will
host the next Asian Ministerial Conference on
Disaster Risk Reduction in 2020.

The Africa-Arab Platform on Disaster
Risk Reduction
The Africa Regional Platform on Disaster Risk
Reduction and the Arab Regional Platform on
Disaster Risk Reduction were organised jointly
in Tunis, from 9 to 13 October. To facilitate
the preparation process, a regional organising
committee was set up comprised of the
Government of Tunisia as the host government,
the League of Arab States, the African Union
Commission and UNISDR Regional Offices in
Africa and the Arab States. The joint Regional
Platform was divided into one preparatory
day, one consultation day and three official
days. The agenda was developed through a

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

“The huge losses experienced in Indonesia last September remind
us of the need to continue raising awareness on tsunamis and
to have more inclusive policies in place to take into account
the most vulnerable as disasters have long-term economic
and social impacts on people and their communities.”

S02

Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, President of the 2018 UN General Assembly, opening the World Tsunami
Awareness Day panel discussion at the United Nations Headquarters in New York.

regional consultative process and the Platform
enabled the two regions to discuss mutual
challenges and gaps and share experiences in
the implementation of the Sendai Framework.
While the two regional platforms had combined
events and a common Chair’s Communique,
there were many distinct events focused on the
unique opportunities and challenges in the two
regions that resulted in two distinct regional
declarations20.
Through the “Communique of the Chair on
Africa-Arab Cooperation on Disaster Risk
Reduction” the Member States agreed to step
up action on reducing disaster losses and work
together in the face of common challenges:
“risk drivers such as the consequences of
poverty and inequality, climate change and
variability, unplanned and rapid urbanization,
poor land management and compounding
factors such as demographic change.” The
communique also spelled out a commitment by
all countries in the two regions to improve the
collection of data on disaster losses through the
Sendai Framework Monitor and to “seize the
opportunity of post-conflict reconstruction
to build back better by investing in resilient
and accessible infrastructure, following the
example of the African and Arab Governments
that are integrating disaster risk reduction
into national and sectoral investment
planning under the responsibility of Central
Finance and Planning Ministries.” The two
regions also agreed to put national and local
strategies for disaster risk reduction in place
over the next two years, thus implementing
target (e).

The Regional Platform also adopted the
“Tunis Declaration on accelerating the
implementation of the Sendai Framework
for
Disaster
Risk
Reduction
20152030 and the Africa Regional Strategy
for Disaster Risk Reduction21; and the
Declaration of the 4th Arab Conference for
Disaster Risk Reduction”22. The Arab States
also agreed on a prioritized plan of action
which was developed as a reference document
for countries and partners based on the “Arab
Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction” and its
Programme of Work. This plan of action for
2018-2020 provides a sense of priority actions
for countries to undertake over the next two
years. A wide range of stakeholders from both
regions were actively engaged in the Regional
Platforms and committed to a variety of
voluntary commitments23.
The Platform brought together over 900
participants from more than 60 countries,
representing national and local governments,
international NGOs, UN agencies, the private
sector and other stakeholders including
academia, media and civil society organization
representing children, youth, women, elderly
and people with disabilities. Forty two
representatives from Media, including from large
broadcast companies, participated in the event
and contributed to the Africa Media Awards24,
among other communication and outreach
activities. As a result, the Platform benefitted
from an unprecedented public outreach, hence
contributing to raise awareness on disaster risk
reduction across Africa.

37

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

S02

SRSG Mizutori and the Prime Minister of Italy, Giuseppe Conte, opening the European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction
(UNISDR).

European Forum for Disaster Risk
Reduction
The European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction
(EFDRR) was held in Rome, from 21 to 23
November and opened by the Italian Prime
Minister. The Forum reviewed progress on the
implementation of the Sendai Framework in
the European Region. The EFDRR Secretariat
was comprised of UNISDR, the European
Commission and the Council of Europe and
facilitated strong engagement of stakeholders,
including for the development of the agenda.
All of the EFDRR sessions were designed by a
designated multi-stakeholder organising
team, each with two co-lead organizations. The
plenary session on ‘Implementing the Sendai
Framework, SDGs and the Paris Agreement in
a Coherent Way’, was led by Germany and the
Netherlands and ‘Every life counts: Inclusive
and equality-based disaster risk reduction
strategies’ was led by the United Kingdom and
Turkey.

38

The Forum had a number of unique elements.
The first was the high level political
leadership and commitment to disaster
risk reduction– the European Forum was for
the first time opened by a Prime Minister,
Giuseppe Conte of Italy, who highlighted that
“Disaster Risk Reduction is fundamental for all
governments”.
Alongside this, there was a high-level
roundtable attended by political leaders that
examined the political questions on protecting
Europe’s citizens and ensuring a social contract
on disaster resilience.
The second element was the innovative
nature of the sessions designed to ask
critical questions and challenge debate. This
included an interactive game session and a
special plenary session on climate change to
highlight the latest scientific report by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
on the implications of a 1.5˚C warming of the
planet. The third element was that all sessions

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

Over 800 delegates attended the Forum from
governments, regional organizations, including
the
European
Union,
non-governmental
organizations, private sector, science and
technological institutions, academic entities,
civil society representatives and variety of
other experts. The meeting reached two key
outcomes25:
•	 High-Level Communique of the Chair:
Protecting Europe’s Citizens: The
Social Contract on Disaster Resilience;
and
•	 Rome Declaration of Stakeholders –
Securing Europe’s Prosperity:
Reducing Risk of Disasters.
At the closing of the event, Portugal announced
to host the next EFDRR.

Central Asia & South Caucasus
Sub-Regional Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction
The Central Asia and South Caucasus SubRegional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction
took place in Yerevan, Armenia, from 25 to 27
June, under the theme “Integrated Platform
for Sustainable Development and Resilience”.
The purpose of the meeting was to gather
countries in the region to review their progress
in the commitments in the Central Asia and
South Caucasus Road Map endorsed in 2016
and share good practices on Sendai Framework
implementation. The Central Asia and South
Caucasus (CASC) countries are now integrated
into the European Forum for Disaster Risk
Reduction.
A key outcome of the CASC Sub-Regional
Platform was the adoption of the Yerevan
Declaration26. The outcomes were presented at
the side event organised by UNISDR during the

“The platform has given
us all positive workloads.
I urge everyone to
achieve new results in
the implementation of the
Sendai Framework, in order
to enhance the welfare and
resilience of our countries
and, of course, strengthen
ties between us.”

S02

ran an online question and answer system
called Pigeonhole where participants could
write questions to the panel. There was also
a strong emphasis on social media videos and
live streaming of the sessions.

Minister Rostomyan of the Ministry of
Emergency Situations in Armenia speaking
at the closing ceremony of the Sub-Regional
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction for
Central Asian and South Caucasus

High-level Political Forum in July and at the
European Forum for Disaster Risk Reduction.
Discussions at the CASC platform focused on
what it means to coherently implement the
broad 2030 agendas, how to reach target (e)
of the Sendai Framework, enhancing regional
cooperation and good practices related to
fostering an “all-of-society approach” towards
sustainable and risk-sensitive development. In
particular, countries showed how a coherent
approach has been adopted in developing
national strategies for disaster risk reduction.
Armenia highlighted the endorsement by the
government and the Parliament of the disaster
risk reduction strategy in 2017 which supported
input across different policy areas and enabled
greater oversight. Also discussed were the
results of a survey conducted by UNISDR prior
to the Sub-Regional Platform which indicated
that all countries in the region have or are in
the process of finalising national strategies and
the majority of these have a coherent approach
with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement. To
broaden the outreach and impact of the event,
a video on the highlights of the Platform27 was
developed.

39

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

“We shall adopt a more interventional and proactive
consideration for prevention, mitigation and
preparation in the face of natural hazards.”

S02

H.E. José Félix Hermenegildo, Secretary of State of Angola

Partnerships with regional and
national organizations
To develop and monitor regional disaster
risk reduction strategies and to support
Sendai Framework implementation, UNISDR
further strengthened its partnership with
regional intergovernmental organizations
throughout 2018. In the Arab States Region,
UNISDR worked closely with the League of
Arab States through a consultative process to
develop the Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk
Reduction 2030. It was adopted at the Riyadh
Heads of States Summit in April 2018. In
addition, a work programme for the strategy
was developed with three phases: short term
(2019-2020), medium term (2021-2025) and
long term (2026-2030). Based on the work
programme, a Prioritised Plan of Action (20192020) was developed as a reference document
for countries and partners.
In
the
Asia-Pacific
Region,
UNISDR
supported ten intergovernmental organizations
from across the region through their senior
level participation in the AMCDRR28 In SouthEast Asia, UNISDR led the Prevention and
Mitigation Pillar of a mid-term review of the
ASEAN-UN Joint Strategic Plan of Action on
Disaster Management 2016-2020. The Plan
of Action is a joint UN contribution towards
the implementation of the ASEAN Agreement
on Disaster Management and Emergency
Response (AADMER). Cooperation was further
enhanced in the Pacific where UNISDR provided
technical support for the implementation and
monitoring of the Framework for Resilient
Development in the Pacific in line with the

40

Sendai Framework. Moreover, as part of the
Pacific Resilience Taskforce, UNISDR has
been steering the preparation for the Pacific
Resilience Meeting due to take place in April
2019 in Suva, Fiji.
In
the
Africa
Region,
long-standing
cooperation between UNISDR, the African Union
Commission (AUC) and the Regional Economic
Commissions has proven instrumental in the
adoption of the Africa Strategy and Programme
of Action (PoA) for Disaster Risk Reduction. To
support the PoA, partners work through several
coordination mechanisms: The Africa Working
Group, the Regional Platform for Disaster Risk
Reduction and other thematic platforms.
The partners listed above also implement the
Intra ACP Programme entitled “Building Disaster
Resilience to Natural Hazards in Sub-Saharan
African Regions, Countries and Communities”.
The Programme’s overall objective is to
strengthen the resilience of Sub-Saharan
African regions, countries and communities
to the impacts of natural disasters, including
the potential impacts of climate change,
in order to reduce poverty and promote
sustainable development. The Programme is
the first comprehensive disaster risk reduction
programme of its magnitude in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The Programme, due to end in 2020,
has attained commendable achievements
that will enable Africa to improve disaster risk
reduction interventions significantly.
Following the establishment of a disaster risk
reduction unit within the AUC’s Department
of Rural Economy and Agriculture in 2017,
UNISDR continued its technical support to the

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

S02
Children gather around a settlement in Hadhawe village, Somali regional state, Ethiopia (UNICEF).

Commission – including through its African
Union Liaison Office in Addis Ababa. Sustained
support led to an improved coordination among
countries and stakeholders which in 2018
resulted in the adoption of the Operational Plan
to implement the Programme of Action.
Work is underway to enable the African Union
Commission (AUC) and the Regional Economic
Communities (RECs) to use and support training
of Member States on the use of the Sendai Monitor
including to track implementation of regional
and sub-regional disaster risk management
plans of action, particularly by drawing upon
the custom indicators functionalities. RECs
are also expected to provide technical support
to countries in monitoring and reporting
progress in the implementation of the Sendai
Framework and the AUC Programme of Action.
Following consultations with RECs and Member
States, UNISDR supported the AUC in the
development of the monitoring and reporting
framework for the Africa Strategy for Disaster
Risk Reduction and its Programme of Action.
The framework was adopted during the AfricaArab Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction. It

will facilitate monitoring and biennial reporting
to AU ministerial meetings and the AU Heads of
State Summit.
UNISDR promotes the inclusion of civil
society and private sector actors in disaster
risk management and planning in countries,
notably through encouraging their inclusion in
national platforms for disaster risk reduction.
In 2018, 34 multi-stakeholder and crosssectoral national platforms in the Sub-Saharan
African Region participated in regional and
global disaster risk management events to
share experiences and enhance their capacities
to use and promote the tools developed by
UNISDR.
The Regional Office for Europe engaged
with the European Commission in the revision
of the EU Civil Protection Mechanism,
known as the ‘rescEU initiative.’ This political
agreement steps up action on prevention
and preparedness by establishing a reporting
framework, focusing on key risks of a crossborder nature and risks of low probability with
high impact. It also provides support to Member

41

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

S02

Undocumented Myanmar Nationals in Shyamlapur settlement, Cox’s Bazar, Bangladesh. © IOM 2016

States to increase their existing disaster risk
reduction measures through a consultation
mechanism and deployment of expert missions
and follow-up recommendations. Furthermore,
it supports greater knowledge sharing through
setting up a new EU Civil Protection Knowledge
Network. UNISDR also contributed to meetings
with the Disaster Preparedness and
Prevention Initiative for South Eastern
Europe to highlight the cross-cutting nature of
disaster risk reduction and the importance of
risk-sensitive decision-making. UNISDR further
advocated the same messages in presentations
to two European Commission inter-services
meetings, convening all directorates of the
Commission.
In the Americas and Caribbean Region,
UNISDR worked with the Centre for Coordination
of Disaster Prevention in Central America
(CEPREDENAC), the Andean Committee for
Disaster Prevention and Assistance (CAPRADE),
the Meeting of Ministers and High-level
Authorities on Comprehensive Disaster Risk
Management of the Common Southern Market
of South America (RMAGIR), as well as other
intergovernmental organizations in the Central
American, Andean and Southern Cone regions
respectively, to align their regional strategies

42

and plans with the Sendai Framework. Support
was provided for the development of National
disaster risk reduction plans in Argentina, Chile
(indicators only), Guatemala and Paraguay.
In the Caribbean, UNISDR also supported the
alignment of the Caribbean Comprehensive
Disaster Management (CDM) Strategy and
related strategic documents with the Sendai
Framework.
Building
on
these
efforts,
the Caribbean Disaster and Emergency
Management Agency (CDEMA) and UNISDR
supported Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados,
British Virgin Islands, Guyana, Jamaica, Saint
Lucia and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
in developing national disaster management
strategies and plans that are aligned to the
Sendai Framework.
In addition, UNISDR and CDEMA continue
working towards the harmonizing the Caribbean
monitoring and reporting mechanism with the
Sendai Framework Monitor. The goal of these
efforts CDEMA Participating States is to enable
that future report progress made in DRR is
reflected through one single process both in
regional (CDM Strategy) and global (Sendai
framework) reporting mechanisms (CDM
Monitor and SFM respectively) which will reduce
the reporting burden on Caribbean countries.

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

Regional Highlight - Probabilistic Risk Assessments in Sub-Saharan
Africa: Translating risk information into policy decision-making
In 2018, UNISDR commissioned the development of country-level probabilistic risk profiles for 16 subSaharan African countries (Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, Equatorial Guinea, Eswatini,
Gabon, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Namibia, Rwanda, São Tomé and Principe, United
Republic of Tanzania and Zambia). These profiles layer historical disaster loss data with national
risk profiles. UNISDR also performed a preliminary disaster risk reduction cost-benefit analysis, to
demonstrate the relevance of disaster risk reduction investments to ensure resilience of investments
both in the face of disaster risk and climate change impacts. Results of probabilistic risk analysis
presented through the risk profiles focused on flood and drought hazards in a changing climate as well
as taking into consideration future social and economic projections. The objective has been to ensure
that African countries improve their knowledge of probabilistic risk and cost-benefit analyses for disaster
risk management.

S02

Probabilistic risk profiles were also prepared for these 16 countries against the indicators for Sendai
Framework targets (a) to (d) focusing on the annual average number of affected persons, direct
economic losses and disaster damage to critical infrastructure and disruption of basic services. This
exercise included prediction of losses and damage to agriculture, productive assets, housing, services,
transportation and critical infrastructure.
The probabilistic risk profiles and disaster risk reduction cost-benefit analysis were presented and discussed
for verification and validation through twelve national risk profiling workshops aimed at translating risk
information into policy. The workshops comprised two modules: the first module presented countryspecific results and the methodology of probabilistic risk profiling. The second module was designed to
allow participants to scrutinise the results of the risk analysis through a three-day group work exercise.
The exercise also served to test the use of risk information in the development of a national disaster risk
reduction strategy.
The risk profiling workshops provided an opportunity to enhance national capacity to incorporate climate
change adaptation and disaster risk reduction into public investment and development planning systems.
Target participants of national risk profiling workshops are the National Public Administration including
Civil Defence Ministries, disaster risk reduction agencies, line-ministries such as Ministry of Agriculture,
Environment, Natural Resources, Education, Health, Finance and Development Planning. Academia and
civil society organizations were also represented. The national workshops were conducted using an
interactive approach and kick-started a process leading to a more systematic assessment of disaster risk
and the national and sub-national level. Topics covered in these workshops included:
•	 Understanding risk assessment: familiarization with the results of the Probabilistic Risk Assessment including Loss Exceedance Curve29. Understanding key risk metrics, including Average
Annual Loss, Probable Maximum Loss, Loss Exceedance Curve for floods and droughts in a
changing climate;
•	 Risk financing and cost-benefit analysis: introducing risk financing to countries considering
future impacts of climate change; assessing and prioritizing investment; tracking and planning
expenditure required for risk financing strategies; national budget reviews using a harmonized
methodology of best practices such as the OECD disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation budget markers for identifying public investments and expenditures in these areas;
•	 Development of risk-informed disaster risk reduction strategies including risk information resulting from the results of probabilistic risk assessment;

Zambia
During the Zambia national workshop, participants – predominantly members of the disaster risk
reduction national platform – chose to revisit a draft national disaster risk reduction strategy in light
of the risk profile results and the Sendai Framework indicators. Zambia’s Disaster Management and
Mitigation Unit planned for a special parliamentary session to be held in early 2019, with the aim of
presenting and discussing the results of the risk profile as well as those of the disaster risk reductionsensitive budget analysis. Budget analysis is a time-consuming exercise, but the Disaster Management
and Mitigation Unit recognised the pragmatic nature of disaster risk reduction-sensitive budget
analysis and how it can serve as a tool to scrutinise public investment. This serves to demonstrate both
the practical application of risk metrics such as average annual losses and probable maximum losses
beyond advocacy purposes.

43

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

S02

A UNISDR training-of-trainers workshop on the Sendai Framework Monitoring System and DesInventar Sendai at the UN
Campus in Bonn, Germany (UNISDR).

Disaster loss data:
DesInventar Sendai
In January 2018, UNISDR retrofitted its disaster
loss accounting system, DesInventar, aligning
it with the targets and indicators of the Sendai
Framework. The new system, DesInventar
Sendai, enables Member States to compile
detailed and homogeneous disaster loss and
damage data that is location and time-stamped.
It also generates charts, graphs and reports
that help countries to understand disaster
trends, patterns and impacts in a systematic
way, thus facilitating dialogue and informed
policy decisions on disaster risk reduction.

The process of gathering data for reporting
national progress in implementing the Sendai
Framework enabled countries to appreciate the
benefit of keeping an active national damage
and loss database both in terms of reporting
progress but – even more importantly – in
informing investment decisions about risks at
local and national levels. As a result, a number
of countries decided to revitalise their national
disaster loss databases aligning their data
reporting to Sendai indicators. To date more
than 109 countries and territories are using
disaster loss databases of which 59 are aligned
to the Sendai Framework. By retrofitting the
tool, Member States are also able to continue
analyzing disaster trends and impacts in
alignment
with the Sendai Framework.
and
Territories

109 Countries
with Disaster loss Databases

109 Countries and Territories with Disaster Loss Databases
40
30
20

36
28

10

10

0
Africa

44

Arab States

10
Europe

25
Asia-Pacific Americas - Caribbean

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

For example, the Regional Office for Africa
did extensive training on the development of
national disaster loss databases. Both United
Nations Country Teams (UNCTs)30 and national
stakeholders from Ghana, Malawi, São Tomé
and Principe were trained in the development
of their national disaster loss databases. As
a result, The Gambia, Ghana, Guinea Bissau,
Malawi and Tanzania launched their online loss
databases aligned with the Sendai Framework
in 2018. In the Americas and Caribbean
Region, seven local disaster loss databases
were established and three national loss
databases were institutionalised in Costa
Rica, Dominican Republic and Uruguay, as the
official tool for data collection by the national
authorities.
The Regional Office for Arab States
organised regional training workshops for
Sendai Focal Points and technical national
focal points and statistics departments in Iraq,
Lebanon and Qatar. This had a multiplier effect,
as the Sendai Focal Points who participated
then provided additional trainings to the
national platforms in each country. This in turn
encouraged multi-stakeholder engagement
in loss data collection. UNISDR also provided
direct support to Lebanon on disaster loss
accounting.
In partnership with the South Asian Association
for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) Disaster
Management Centre (Interim Unit), the
Regional Office for Asia and Pacific
trained government officials in Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka. These countries also
benefitted at these occasions from sharing
experiences, good practices and lessons learned

on the establishment and institutionalization of
disaster loss databases. Through the exchanges
made during the workshop, the participating
countries identified coordination needs for data
collection, reporting and analysis and learned
how to apply disaster data to policy making.
As part of the plan for improving disaster loss
data collection in European countries, the
Regional Office for Europe joined efforts with
the European Commission on a programme for
disaster risk assessment and mapping in the
Western Balkans and Turkey (IPA DRAM).

S02

Through its Regional Offices and its office in
Bonn, UNISDR supported countries and local
administrations to strengthen their capacity to
account for disaster losses to report against four
of the seven targets of the Sendai Framework,
as well as to understand the impact of these
losses in the context of policy and investment
decisions.

Fiji’s National Disaster
Risk Reduction Policy
2018-2030
In the Pacific, UNISDR supported the
development of Fiji’s National Disaster
Risk Reduction Policy 2018-2030
which is currently awaiting cabinet
approval. This is a good example of
a strategy that has a comprehensive
and systematic approach to disaster
risk reduction in order to achieve
poverty alleviation and sustainable
development. It also promotes the allof-society approach encouraged by the
Sendai Framework toward addressing
climate change and disaster risk
reduction, stating: “Women and
vulnerable groups including the
elderly, persons with disabilities and
young people will share in planning,
decision-making
and
community
action.” The Government of Fiji also
launched a review of its 1998 National
Disaster Management Act wherein
UNISDR is a member of the steering
committee guiding consultations and
drafting of the new Act.

45

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

S02

UNISDR contributed to the design and
organization of meetings with national
authorities of Montenegro, upon their request,
in order to assess capacities and gaps, to define
adapted methodologies for data collection and
to facilitate endorsement of a national structure
for data collection and implementation of
DesInventar Sendai. The upcoming data
gathering will consolidate municipal level
historical data. This data will be disaggregated,
allowing for greater understanding of specific
impacts on women and vulnerable persons.
Through the same process as in Montenegro,
the Regional Office for Europe worked in
Bosnia & Herzegovina conducting a workshop
on disaster data collection and initiating plans
on the use of DesInventar Sendai. As a result,
at the end of 2018, Bosnia & Herzegovina
began running the national capacity and gap
assessment with the objective to fully achieve
the implementation of the system by the end of
2019. An important aspect of this effort is the
empowerment of local level administration as
they will receive direct access to DesInventar
Sendai. Currently the local officials gather and
send loss information to a national coordinator
and do not see how this information is processed
for
decision-making
purposes.
UNISDR
also engaged in discussions with Croatia to
ensure the inclusion of disaster loss data
collection in the 2019 National Disaster Risk
Reduction Strategy, and for collaborating on
the sustainable implementation of DesInventar
Sendai as the national tool for systematic data
collection. In collaboration with the United
Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in
Armenia, UNISDR initiated support to National
Authorities and Sendai National Focal Points for
assessing needs and current status for disaster
loss data collection with the aim to support
a national structure with a Sendai compliant
system. This process will concretely take place
in 2019 with the aim to implement DesInventar
Sendai by the end of the year.
Sub-national disaster damage and loss
accounting was strengthened in the AsiaPacific Region. Seven Indian States were

46

supported to enhance their understanding
of the relevance of systematically recording
disaster losses and strengthening their
capabilities to develop and/or maintain disaster
loss databases. Two cities (Kathmandu and
Ulaanbaatar) benefitted from an intensive
training workshop on disaster loss databases,
together with governmental representatives
from Bangladesh, Mongolia and Nepal. Through
this workshop and discussion with national
counterparts, all participants understood
the additional benefits of higher resolution
datasets on disaster losses and their potential
applications at the local level.

Working with the UN System at
Regional and National Levels
To advance integration of disaster risk
reduction and a risk-informed approach in
Common Country Analysis and United Nations
Development Assistance Frameworks (CCA/
UNDAF), UNISDR works through its Regional
Offices to strengthen support to United Nations
Resident Coordinators and Country Teams.
UNISDR also engaged at the global level in the
Reference Group and Design Team for revised
UNDAF Guidance in the context of United
Nations Development System reform. This
work is to ensure that UNDAFs are disaster
risk-informed and built on an integrated
approach to disaster risk reduction, resilience
and sustainable development.31 UNISDR also
works through regional level inter-agency
coordination
mechanisms.
For
example,
in Africa, UNISDR and the United Nations
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian
Affairs (UNOCHA) co-chair a working group
on ‘Humanitarian issues and disaster risk
management’ under the Regional Coordination
Mechanism, and in the Americas, UNISDR and
UNDP co-chair a working group on resilience.
In the Asia-Pacific Region, UNISDR worked
closely with the regional UN Sustainable
Development Group (UNSDG) to review the
UNDAFs in Bhutan and Myanmar. This is the

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

S02
Communities in Quang Tri, Vietnam help each other to rebuild houses after severe floods (Oxfam GB).

first UNDAF to be developed in Myanmar. Along
with ESCAP and UNDP, UNISDR co-chairs the
Regional Coordination Mechanism Thematic
Working Group on Disaster Risk Reduction and
Resilience. This Working Group both enables
information sharing among the UN entities for
strengthened coordination and is in the process
of developing a knowledge product on disaster
resilient infrastructure that will inform nationallevel policy development. Under the leadership
of UN Resident Coordinator in Mongolia and
in coordination with other partners, UNISDR
provided technical support to the formulation
of a potential forecast-based financing
mechanism in the country to address severe
winter conditions which are known as “dzud”.
In the Africa Region, UNISDR provided
technical guidance on the integration of
disaster risk reduction considerations in seven
new UNDAFs (Burkina Faso, Cameroon, the
Central African Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya
and Nigeria). The Africa Regional Office also
provided support through the United Nations
Development Group (UNSDG) peer support
group and presented multi-hazard probabilistic
risk profiles in three of the countries with
new UNDAFs (Cameroon, Ghana and Kenya).

In addition to the country risk profiles, these
countries were supported in developing disaster
risk reduction cost-benefit analysis to ensure
that future development investments will be
disaster and climate change risk-informed.
For select countries which will launch the new
UNDAF in 2019, UNISDR will provide country
teams with the multi-hazard probabilistic risk
profiles and disaster risk reduction cost-benefit
analysis developed in 2018-2019. These
countries include: Equatorial Guinea, Gabon,
Namibia and Rwanda.
The UNISDR Europe Office actively contributed
to the Regional Forum on Sustainable
Development, notably by highlighting the
recommendations of the Sendai Framework
in relation to reliable data, inclusiveness and
finance in discussions on promoting resilient
and sustainable cities and human settlements
and sharing lessons learned from UNISDR’s
work with more than 4,224 cities through the
Making Cities Resilient Campaign.
At a technical level, UNISDR coordinated closely
with UNDP to organise the Central Asia and
South Caucasus Platform, which contributed to
ensuring the presence of several ministers from

47

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

the region. As a result of this engagement, it is
anticipated that disaster risk reduction will be
strengthened in the UNDAFs in the region to be
released in 2020.

S02

Upon
invitation
from
UNECE,
UNISDR
supported the organization of a workshop
about land use planning and industrial hazards,
a growing concern in Europe. UNISDR gave
a presentation about the approach of the
Sendai Framework, its priorities and ways of
implementation and chaired a Plenary Session
about better linkages between industrial safety
and Sendai Framework which highlighted the
social impact of industrial disasters, the risk of
cascading effects and the need for improved
risk knowledge.
In the Americas and Caribbean Region, to
improve the availability and use of risk data,
UNISDR collaborated closely with ECLAC and
UN Environment in the provision of technical
support to the Latin American and Caribbean
Disaster Risk Reduction (LAC DRR) Statistics
Working Group. UNISDR also coordinates the
LAC United Nations Interagency Group on
Resilience. An exploratory mission to Bolivia
was carried out jointly with UNDP within
the framework of the Capacity for Disaster
Reduction Initiative (CADRI) and the LAC
Interagency Group on Resilience.

Developing national disaster
risk reduction strategies
Recognising the importance of attaining
target (e) of the Sendai Framework by 2020,
UNISDR conducted an in-depth analysis of
national disaster risk reduction strategies.
The analysis identified achievements and
gaps in disaster risk reduction strategies and
policy recommendations to strengthen their
implementation. UNISDR organised a variety
of regional and national capacity building
workshops to improve understanding of Sendai
Framework priorities and role of the national
platforms in the development of the national
strategies for disaster risk reduction. At these
workshops, the core requirements of the

48

strategy, the necessity of a people-centred
and multi-stakeholder approach and the
need for evaluation and reporting tools were
highlighted. The workshops were attended by
representatives from across ministries and
national platforms facilitating discussion and
collaboration among the entities.
In the Asia-Pacific Region, UNISDR presented
a regional analysis on target (e) to 115
representatives from 20 governments, several
intergovernmental organizations, national and
regional United Nations entities, stakeholder
groups and international organizations. The
workshop allowed UNISDR to identify good
practices on aligning disaster risk reduction
strategies with the Sendai Framework, in terms
of the nature of strategic goals and the scope of
hazards considered. The group work and panel
discussions allowed the represented UNCTs as
well as partners, stakeholders and UNISDR,
to identify roles and support requirements
to develop or revise national strategies, to
improve the linkage and foster development of
local disaster risk reduction strategies and to
enhance implementation capacities.
Based
on
recommendations
from
the
participants, UNISDR will further strengthen
this area of work by developing knowledge
products and guidelines on: application
of risk knowledge; disaster risk reduction
mainstreaming into sector and development
plans;
meaningful
engagement
and
empowerment of stakeholders and partners;
financing mechanisms for disaster risk
reduction; multi-stakeholders and multilevel coordination mechanisms for disaster
risk reduction planning, action and decisionmaking; and significance and implications of
coherence with the sustainable development
agendas.
In the Arab States Region, UNISDR conducted
national consultation workshops in Jordan and
Lebanon to support the development of national
disaster risk reduction strategies through
the identification of the gaps, challenges and
priorities related to implementing the Sendai
Framework. UNISDR’s engagement in the

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

Sendai Framework Target (e)
Countries with National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies or Plans

S02

(developed with UNISDR support)

Completed

Total

In Progress

52

35

Americas-Caribbean

5

10

Asia-Pacific

9

4

Europe

17

Arab States

4

Africa

7
7

17
0

7
10

20

30

Completed

40

50

60

70

80

90

In progress

49

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

S02

Rebuilding a road after eruption of Mount Merapi in Yogyakarta, Indonesia (World Bank).

region and guidance materials supported
the finalisation of eight additional national
strategies in Bahrain, Comoros, Egypt, Kuwait,
Mauritania, Saudi Arabia, Somalia and Tunisia.
Support is continued to five countries in their
national strategy development: Algeria, Iraq,
Morocco, Palestine and Sudan.
The Regional Office for Africa is currently
analysing the status of alignment of national
disaster risk reduction strategies and plans to
the Sendai Framework, including to address the
expanded scope of hazards32. The review is to
be completed in 2019; the preliminary results
of the analysis indicate that 17 countries have
achieved target (e): Angola, Benin, Botswana,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cabo Verde, Chad,
Congo (Republic of), Ethiopia, Madagascar,
Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Namibia and Niger.
The Central African Republic and Nigeria have
drafted strategies that are currently waiting
adoption. Burkina Faso and Chad have plans
for disaster risk reduction and expressed
willingness to work on a more comprehensive
strategy in line with the Sendai Framework.
Three countries are currently in the process
of aligning their strategies with the Sendai

50

Framework (Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda). UNISDR
held a regional workshop for the ECOWAS
region in November and for the ECCAS region
in December and as a result, eight countries
from these regions that do not presently have a
process leading to the development of disaster
risk reduction strategy expressed interest and
requested support in developing one33.
In the Americas and Caribbean Region,
UNISDR provided support in the development of
national disaster risk reduction strategies using
both global and nationally defined indicators
in Argentina, Chile, Guatemala and Paraguay.
This has resulted in strategies focusing on the
guiding principles of inclusion and all-of-society
participation, while at the same time ensuring
that their respective custom national indicators,
such as gender disaggregated indicators are
incorporated.
UNISDR, together with the United Nations
Food and Agricultural Organization, supported
the development and follow-up of a Regional
Strategy for Disaster Risk Management in
the Agriculture Sector and Food and Nutrition
Security in Latin America and the Caribbean

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

In Europe, UNISDR provided support at
bilateral, sub-regional and regional levels
to accelerate the achievement of target (e).
This included the provision of guidance on the
development of national strategies to Sendai

National Focal Points including Slovakia,
Montenegro, Turkey and Serbia. UNISDR also
participated in meetings with government task
forces to facilitate the development of national
strategies.
UNISDR gathered 30+ national representatives
to share experiences after one year of reporting
and almost three years of Sendai Framework
implementation. The countries presented their
achievements and methodologies, opening a
broad discussion about challenges, successes
and possible solutions for disaster risk reduction
data, reporting and implementation. The
session also shared the latest news and next

S02

(2018-2030). The strategy was approved at
the ministerial level by the Community of Latin
American and Caribbean States (CELAC) and
will enable improved disaster risk management
in the agriculture sector for food and nutritional
security. This process was initiated in response
to a request by CELAC, on behalf of its Member
States on the need to increase efforts on
disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation in the agriculture sector34.

milestones linked to the Sendai Framework.

Aligning National Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies and
National Adaptation Plans
The Sendai Framework target (e) calls for an “increase in the number of countries with
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies” and the Paris Agreement calls for
the development of National Adaptation Plans (NAPs), both by 2020.
To support countries in building coherence between these strategies and even developing
joint strategies, UNISDR worked closely with the Least Developed Countries Expert
Group (LEG) of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
which is mandated to provide technical guidance and support to Least Developed
Countries (LDCs) on the process of formulating and implementing NAPs.
The Secretariat of the Least Developed Countries Expert Group (LEG) requested that
UNISDR develops technical guidelines regarding the inclusion of disaster risk reduction
in the development of the National Adaptation Plans. To respond to this request, UNISDR
organised an expert meeting in Bonn in November 2017 which brought together 50
leading experts in disaster risk reduction and professionals responsible for developing
national and local disaster risk reduction strategies from 13 countries to develop the
technical guidelines. Building on the feedback from the consultation, UNISDR drafted
the supplementary technical guidelines presented for final consideration at the next LDC
Expert Group in Kiribati in February 2019.  
To support the implementation of the technical guidelines over the 2018-2019 biennium
UNISDR will work with 10 countries ensuring a closer coordination and coherence in the
development of target (e) and NAPs. UNFCCC has indicated they will work with UNISDR
in carrying out these technical support missions.

51

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

UNISDR’s Approach to Training and Monitoring Impact
UNISDR’s Global Education and Training Institute (GETI) was established in 2010 to
coordinate capacity building policy and implementation at UNISDR. The Institute utilizes
adult learning approaches, based primarily on the theory of andragogy introduced by
Malcom Knowles, as opposed to the pedagogy often associated with childhood learning.
In the actual planning and organising of the training opportunities, GETI works in close
coordination with the Regional Offices in order to integrate specific regional needs.

S02

In a training workshop for conducting consultations towards the development of draft
National/Local Disaster Risk Reduction Strategies and Plans, representatives of both
national and local governments and key disaster risk reduction and climate change
adaptation training institutions are involved. Participants generally include officials
from national and city/local governments, multi-stakeholder members of the National
or Local Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction and other relevant stakeholders (e.g.
sectoral / ministry representatives, private sector, civil society, United Nations Resident
Coordinators office).
Co-organised workshops with a regional, local or national training institution or
partner organization and the host country is the preferred method where the partner
institutions can follow-up on the workshop recommendations. Additionally, where
possible, the translation of training course modules into the local language and inclusion
of these modules into the local disaster risk reduction training institution curriculum is
encouraged. This approach is pursued to ensure ownership and to foster sustainability.
For a workshop on the development of draft National/Local Disaster Risk Reduction
Strategies and Plans, the training course primarily uses a mix of:
•	 Introductory presentations with question and answer sessions (for participants
to understand the context and terms) in plenary.
•	 Case study presentations with question and answer sessions and eliciting
sharing of experience from participants.
•	 A presentation on tools that have been developed by UNISDR (e.g. Sendai
Framework Monitor, Resilient Cities Scorecard).
•	 Group work to: identify gaps/challenges by country/city; drafting of disaster
risk reduction action plans to address gaps/challenges by country/city; identification of objectives, actions and indicators.
Impact is monitored through end-of-course evaluation forms and analysis of the
results for future use. An implementation progress survey is then carried out online
with participants two to three months following the workshop. UNISDR also maintains
a “Kudos File” to capture qualitative information that demonstrates how capacity
development efforts support Sendai Framework implementation and captures specific
feedback on impact or usefulness of the training. Moreover, key success indicators such
as the number of disaster risk reduction plans adopted and implemented are monitored.

52

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

S02
UNISDR training on the use of the Sendai Framework monitor (UNISDR).

Decentralizing disaster risk
reduction support at local level
To empower local authorities to manage
disaster risks better, UNISDR provides over
4,224 local governments signed up to the
Making Cities Resilient Campaign with tools,
best practices and policy guidance to implement
the Sendai Framework. In 2018, over 200
cities completed a self-assessment of their
state of resilience utilising UNISDR’s Disaster
Resilience Scorecard for Cities. Technical
guidance was also provided to 20 pilot cities
on the development of Local Disaster Risk
Reduction Plans and Strategies in line with
Sendai Framework target (e) including through
the use of the Making Cities Resilient Campaign
tools and methodology developed by UNISDR’s
Global Education and Training Institute
(GETI)35.
The technical support provided to the twenty
pilot cities included a training-of-trainers
workshop on disaster risk reduction action

plans and five workshops which facilitated
the sharing of experiences, best practices and
innovative solutions to common challenges. This
experience of horizontal learning facilitated
partnerships and engagement of multiple
stakeholders in the disaster risk reduction
planning process, such as the engagement of
sectoral development planning officials, budget
officials, academia and vulnerable group
representatives. An example of this horizontal
learning was knowledge sharing between
Kisumu City, Kenya and Kire Dawa, Ethiopia. In
a workshop, representatives from Kisumu City,
who had a challenge with waste disposal, were
able to learn from Dire Dawa’s cost effective
solid waste management experiences and
solutions. The experience of pilot cities also
serves as a catalyst to strengthen national
governments’ support to local governments
in disaster risk reduction. In Mongolia, for
example, Ulaanbaatar, inspired 21 other
cities to sign-up to the Making Cities Resilient
Campaign and to conduct self-assessments for
disaster risk reduction.

53

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

S02

The Regional Office for Africa provided
technical guidance and capacity building for city
officials and stakeholders in the mainstreaming
of inclusive disaster risk reduction integrated
with climate change adaptation. The Office
enriched the process by facilitating city-tocity exchanges carrying out preliminary multistakeholder assessments, developing disaster
risk reduction/climate change adaptation
action plans, and establishing/ strengthening
disaster loss accounting systems. Using
the Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities,
the cities assessed their achievements and
identified gaps and challenges, enabling
city officials and stakeholders to propose
solutions to their identified challenges. In
several cases, challenges were overcome
by opening communication lines across the
various departments of the local goverments to
leverage available resources.
The city of Kisumu, Kenya, is coordinating and
aligning the planning process for disaster risk
reduction action and urban development in the
Integrated Strategy for Urban Development.
UNISDR’s engagement in 2018 helped increase
the capacities of the focal point and secured
the commitment of the City Manager equivalent
to Mayor to disaster risk reduction. The City
Manager’s commitment is highly visible in her
efforts to secure financing for disaster risk
reduction. A focal point was appointed with the
mandate to mainstream disaster risk reduction
in urban development planning. This focal point
joined UNISDR to train officials in The Gambia on
local disaster risk reduction planning. The city
of Kisumu is also engaging parliamentarians,
political leaders and private sector to support
issuing relevant bills and securing budget for
disaster risk reduction implementation.
The Asia-Pacific Regional Office accelerated
the Making Cities Resilient Campaign in the
region throughout the year. As a result,
Mongolia became the first country to sign
up all of its provinces, known as “Aimags” in
the local language, to the Campaign. Nine
cities in Iran joined the Campaign in 2018. In
Bangladesh, the self-assessment exercises with

54

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Disaster Resilience Scorecard

S02

The UNISDR Disaster Resilience Scorecard provides a set of assessments that will allow
local governments to monitor and review progress and challenges in the implementation
of the Sendai Framework and to assess their disaster resilience. It is structured
around UNISDR’s Ten Essentials for Making Cities Resilient and provides a set of
assessments that cover the policy and planning, engineering, organizational, financial,
social and environmental aspects of disaster resilience. The Scorecard can be used on
two levels:
Level 1: Preliminary level, responding to key Sendai Framework targets and indicators,
and with some critical sub-questions. This approach is suggested for use in a one to twoday city multi-stakeholder workshop. In total, there are 47 questions/indicators, each
with a 0–3 score;
Level 2: Detailed assessment. This approach is a multi-stakeholder exercise that can
take between one to four months and can be a basis for a detailed city resilience action
plan. The detailed assessment includes 117 indicator criteria, each with a score of 0–5.

cities triggered the interest of the Municipality
Association of Bangladesh which took the lead
and signed up all 329 municipalities in the
country to the Campaign in 2018 with all 329
Mayors committed to implementing policies to
reduce disaster risks.
Several of these cities assessed their resilience
using the Disaster Resilience Scorecard. All
the provinces in Mongolia, five cities in Iran and
three in Fiji have completed the assessments.
Bangladesh is developing a training plan that
will allow all municipalities to carry out the
Scorecard-based assessment. The cities are
then provided guidance on how to develop
action plans based on the results of the
Scorecard assessments. The action plans for
the five cities are currently in final stages of
development before official adoption by the city
governments.
The Scorecard also inspired the development
of national tools. In the Philippines, through
its National Resilience Council, a National

Resilience Scorecard was developed that
assesses local resilience against indicators
aligned with the Philippine Development Plan
and the Seal of Good Local Governance. The
successful development of the Resilience Action
Plan in Honiara prompted the Government of
Solomon Islands to request similar support
from UNISDR for the development of such
strategies in other provinces. In light of the
enhanced awareness about the importance
of local strategies, the development of
provincial disaster risk reduction strategies is a
requirement under the country’s new National
Disaster Management Plan adopted in 2018.
The Regional Office for Arab States provided
technical support in the development of disaster
risk reduction action plans following detailed
Disaster Resilience Scorecard assessments
in four cities in the Sudan and Mauritania.
Workshops on advocacy and the development
of local level disaster loss databases were held
for each city. As a result, each of the cities

55

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

S02

“As local governments, we are strategically
positioned to successfully integrate
disaster risk information into urban
development planning processes and daily
city operations, as we provide leadership
for the well-being of our constituents.”
Ms. Doris Ombara, City Manager of Kisumu City in Kenya

developed a disaster loss database. In addition,
a workshop took place in Lebanon for ten cities
to build capacities of officials on the Disaster
Resilience Scorecard and to draft local disaster
risk reduction action plans accordingly.
To better assess shocks and stress in Mauritania,
UNISDR held workshops involving several
stakeholders including the National Sendai
Framework focal point and representatives of
three cities: Rosso, Tevragh Zeina and Kaedi.
In the workshops, UNISDR facilitated the use
of its Quick Risk Estimation (QRE) tool36 and
integrated human security considerations for
the first time. This allowed the cities to have
a comprehensive understanding of their risks
and opportunities. With UNISDR support, the
cities are now working on local action plans that
take into account safety and security concerns
in addition to social, environmental, political,
health and economic risks. The learnings from
the application of this new approach should
prove useful for cities in fragile contexts.

56

A series of local consultations took place in 25
Arab cities in 2018. The Disaster Resilience
Scorecard was applied by cities in Jordan,
Lebanon, Mauritania, Oman, Saudi Arabia,
the Sudan and Tunisia, and the analysis was
integrated into their city resilience planning.
Learning lessons from best practices and
exchanging knowledge, the cities disaster
resilience assessment workshops paved the
way for initiating multi-stakeholder dialogues
between national and local disaster risk
reduction stakeholders on emerging disaster
risk issues. A statistical analysis and a summary
of the results of the Scorecard preliminary
assessments in the 25 cities; with a focus on the
lessons learned and future action plans related
to the development and implementation of
risk-informed city resilience action plans; was
made available in the Arab Region Synthesis
Report 2018 “Making Cities Sustainable and
Resilient: Implementing the Sendai Framework
for Disaster Risk Reduction at the local level”37.

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Overview of Local Level Engagement
Number of local governments or
cities submitting Disaster Resilience
Scorecard Self-Assessments aligned
to the Sendai Framework

Africa	

108	

50

Arab States	

308	

28

Europe	

724	

Asia-Pacific	

1,169	

93

Americas-Caribbean	

1,915	

50

Total

4,224	

221

	

S02

Number of cities participating
in the Making Cities
Resilient Campaign

0*		

*Europe completed 118 Self-Assessments based on the local assessment tool under Hyogo.

In accordance with the Sendai Framework,
consultations and workshops employed an allof-society approach ensuring representation
of women, civil society and the elderly, among
others.
The Regional Office for the Americas
provided technical support and guidance
to develop local Action Plans in Argentina,
Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala,
Honduras, Nicaragua, Peru, Trinidad and
Tobago. Training workshops to develop Local
Action Plans for Disaster Risk Reduction
were held using the Making Cities Resilient
Campaign methodology and tools which were
translated into Spanish. In Colombia, UNISDR
worked along with the Unidad Nacional para la
Reducción del Riesgo de Desastres (UNGRDNational disaster risk reduction entity) to adapt
the Campaign tools to the Colombian disaster
risk reduction legislative framework and trained
20 municipalities on the use of the adjusted
materials in two multi-stakeholder workshops.

In Santo Domingo Este, Dominican Republic,
UNISDR’s support increased disaster risk
reduction awareness and commitment of
technical staff and political leaders. The
active engagement and buy-in of the most
senior officials at the local level, led from one
staff working on disaster risk reduction on
an ad hoc basis to institutionalising disaster
risk reduction in the city’s structure. Santo
Domingo Este also established a disaster risk
reduction committee and the Mayor endorsed
the disaster risk reduction action plan of the
Municipal Council. Civil society and nongovernmental organizations have also provided
sustained support to the city-lead initiatives to
build local resilience.
In Europe, UNISDR designed a city-level peer
review tool with the University of Manchester,
United Kingdom Department of Communities
and Local Government, the Portuguese National
Authority of Civil Protection and the Associazione
di Protezione Civile Gruppo Lucano to enable

57

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

S02

UNISDR coordinated an experience sharing workshop
between the cities of Dhaka North (Bangladesh),
Mawlamyine (Myanmar) and Incheon (the Republic of
Korea). The workshop included this site visit to Incheon
Metropolitan City’s Real Time Monitor Platform for Safety
and Disaster Control. The sophisticated technology in the
control room tracks a variety of hazards such as floods, fires
and typhoons in real-time. The monitors capture information
from CCTV cameras across the city and from other agencies
including the Meteorological Administration. This information
is also shared with relevant response agencies.

transparent sharing of experiences between
cities about good practice in disaster risk
management. The municipalities of Viggiano
(Italy), Amadora (Portugal) and Greater
Manchester (United Kingdom) then tested and
refined the tool. The methodology behind this
tool is now being developed into a dedicated
International Standard - ISO (22392) to further
support cities worldwide (see page 16 of SO1).
Having a standard built on this tool will assist
local governments in rationalizing investments
and fostering communication. It will ensure
that systems and policies being put in place
are compatible, increase safety and meet the
needs of society. It will play an important role
in building the resilience of cities.

Capacity building for all
stakeholders
The Sendai Framework recognizes the primary
role of national governments in facilitating the
achievement of its disaster risk reduction goals
and priorities, but also highlights the critical
role of other stakeholders and calls for an allof-society approach. To support this approach,
United Nations Member States have identified

58

a need to enhance the capacity of institutions
and individuals responsible for disaster risk
reduction. Beginning at the 2017 Global
Platform and throughout 2018, UNISDR took
the lead in conducting an overview of prevailing
disaster
risk
reduction-specific
capacity
development needs in collaboration with United
Nations Member States, other United Nations
entities, partners and disaster risk reduction
stakeholders to develop a more effective and
strategic approach to capacity development.
Following a global consultation workshop in
2018, the resulting “Strategic Approach
to Capacity Development” document was
published as a living document at the request of
Member States and participating stakeholders
in June 2018 and subsequently further refined
during sessions held at all Regional and SubRegional Platforms held in 201838.
The
“Strategic
Approach
to
Capacity
Development”
established
a
common
understanding on the topic of capacity
development within the disaster risk reduction
community by characterizing outstanding
capacity development needs in light of common
obstacles and constraints, presenting key
principles, elements and actions that together
help guide planning discussions, providing

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

S02
targets and ideals, and normalizing practice
across sectors. The Strategic Approach is
meant to be a resource for empowerment in
pursuit of its goal which is “A Vision of RiskInformed Sustainable Development by 2030”.
The Strategic Approach provides generalized
advice on the capacity development roles and
responsibilities of various disaster risk reduction
stakeholders, and high-level guidance in critical
areas of need39.
As an integral part of the Strategic Approach,
UNISDR organises training programmes focused
on understanding disaster risk reduction and
the importance of coherent implementation
of the Sendai Framework, the 2030 Agenda
and the Paris Agreement towards developing
integrated plans for resilience. In 2018 alone,
2,850 national and local government officials
and other relevant stakeholders from 91
countries were trained. 65 training workshops,
including four online, were conducted by
UNISDR’s Global Education and Training
Institute (GETI). Training programme modules
were updated throughout 2018 to reflect
further coherence with the Agenda 2030 and
the Paris Agreement.

Web Community of Sendai
Framework Focal Points
The UNISDR Europe Office developed a
web community comprised of 48 Sendai
Framework National Focal Points in the
region and 33 technical focal points.
The platform serves for communication
from UNISDR to all focal points but
also for exchanges between national
counterparts and document sharing. The
exchanges among Member States foster
regular communication and experience
sharing,
especially
about
national
structures for the Sendai Framework
Monitoring process and data collection,
the development of national strategies
for disaster risk reduction and the
improvement of National Platforms for
Disaster Risk Reduction.

59

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

60

S03

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

STRATEGIC
OBJECTIVE 3

Catalyse Action through
Member States and Partners

Fostered policy coherence
by engaging with Member
States and key partners
and contributing to relevant
intergovernmental processes.
RESULT 2.2
Coordination and advice is
provided to all United Nations
System partners at global
level towards effective and
efficient implementation of
the Sendai Framework.
RESULT 2.3

Through Strategic Objective Three of its
Work Programme 2016-2019, UNISDR builds
coherence of international and regional
efforts for disaster risk reduction across
agendas; strengthens partnerships for the
generation and application of risk knowledge
and evidence; provides inter-governmental
support; and catalyses active and accountable
contributions to disaster risk reduction from
all stakeholders, including the private sector,
civil society and community groups, science
and technology partners, parliamentarians
and key policy and decision makers. In order
to streamline and structure its engagement
with partners and stakeholders, a new
Partnership and Stakeholder Engagement
Strategy has been developed and started to
be implemented.

S03

RESULT 2.1

Partnerships leveraged
for increased financing for
disaster risk reduction and
risk-sensitive investment.
RESULT 2.4
All of society engagement
and action promoted through
strengthening partnerships
with key stakeholders.
Maraloo (10 year old) youth representative addressing
the 2018 Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk
Reduction.

61

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

“An important part of reducing disaster risk is
strengthening coordination. All stakeholders need to
be sitting together and involved in all stages.”
Mr. Zahi Chahine, Disaster Risk Reduction Management Unit, Lebanon

Strategic Multi-Stakeholder
Engagement

S03

In order to support the implementation of the
full scope of the Sendai Framework, UNISDR
developed a new Partnership and Stakeholder
Engagement Strategy which sets out the
priorities and expectations for partnerships,
including definitions, guiding principles, value
propositions and engagement modalities. The
goal of this Strategy is to enable systematic
engagement and catalyse action between
governments and stakeholders to reduce
existing risks and prevent the creation of new
risks for resilient socio-economic development
at the global, national and local levels through:

•	 Promoting the value proposition
including tangible results of engaging
in disaster risk reduction and
risk-informed development and
investment;

•	 Engaging partners and stakeholders
for an inclusive approach in designing
and implementing integrated disaster
risk reduction strategies at national
and local levels;

•	 Breaking down silos between and
within governments, the United
Nations system and stakeholder
groups;

•	 Initiating behavioural change towards
risk-informed decision-making and
investment;

•	 Encouraging enhanced, SouthSouth triangular and North-South
collaboration.
Supporting the operationalization of the
Strategy, the UNISDR Stakeholder Engagement
Mechanism (SEM) was launched in December
2018. The main focus of the new mechanism

62

is to bring together the power of stakeholders
to trigger behavioural change at all levels
through promotion and advocacy in global and
regional policy processes and implementation
and information sharing at the national and
local levels. Developed through an active
consultation process with stakeholders over
the course of 2018, the mechanism includes
a committed Stakeholder Advisory Group,
consisting of representatives of the 13 UN
Major Groups and Other Stakeholder Groups
(MGoS)40 and
civil
society
organization
networks
focusing
specifically
on
all
international agreements post-2015. This
also includes a newly established independent
Sendai Civil Society Organization Group for
the Coordination Mechanism of the MGoS for
the High-level Political Forum for Sustainable
Development (CM/MGoS/HLPF), led by the
Global Network for Disaster Reduction
(GNDR) and the Huairou Commission which
is promoting a stronger risk focus in the HLPF
discussions as well as across the development
Civil Society Organization Community.
The Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism
members agreed on concrete activities for
2019, including the organization of a Global
Stakeholder Conference during the preparatory
days of the 2019 Global Platform and the
development of common advocacy messages
for risk-informed development which will be
used to promote an inclusive approach to
disaster risk reduction in key meetings in 2019.
The Strategy is being rolled out across the
organization, and with existing and new partner
networks and initiatives. Internally, coherent
operationalization of the strategy is ensured
through mechanisms such as a Community of
Practice on Partnerships which allows crossfertilization and alignment as well as the ongoing
development of a partner registry, updated risk
management including due diligence processes
and standard operating procedures.

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

A house in Indonesia built on stilts to protect against flooding (World Bank).

Throughout 2018, activities continued to support
and inform intergovernmental decisionmaking and policy setting to advance the
implementation of the Sendai Framework
and promote policy coherence through a riskinformed approach in the implementation and
review of international agreements related to
sustainable development. Financing for disaster
risk reduction was included on the agenda of the
Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) Forum
on Financing for Development (FFD) for the
first time. In the Forum’s inter-governmentally
agreed conclusions and recommendations,
Member
States
recognized
that
the
international system’s financial response to
disasters is insufficient, and called for disaster
risk reduction measures to be incorporated
into development assistance programmes
and infrastructure financing. The Presidential
Statement of the ECOSOC meeting, Pathways to
resilience in climate-affected SIDS, also called
for much greater attention to develop tailored
disaster risk reduction financing instruments
to translate national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies into action. Subsequently,
the Inter-Agency Task Force on FFD, of which
UNISDR is a member, will further explore how
countries can mobilize financing for disaster

risk reduction in its 2019 report which will also
guide FFD deliberations in 2019.

S03

Fostering policy coherence

Disaster risk reduction was featured prominently
at the High-level Political Forum (HLPF)
for Sustainable Development. In a joint
statement, the Group of Friends for Disaster
Risk Reduction41 declared that disaster risk
reduction strategies are a prerequisite for
sustainable development and appealed for
stronger leadership for a disaster risk-informed
approach to programming and financing across
all areas of sustainable development. This was
echoed in the HLPF Ministerial Declaration,
through which Member States called to augment
efforts to integrate disaster risk reduction into
national and local sustainable development
strategies as well as development assistance
programmes and infrastructure financing.
Through its annual resolution on disaster risk
reduction, the General Assembly encouraged
Member States to engage their National Sendai
Framework Focal Points in order to incorporate
disaster risk reduction in their voluntary
national reviews and to input data into the
Sendai Framework Monitor to ensure disaster
risk reduction is reflected in the deliberations
and outcomes of the HLPF in 2019 and beyond.
For the first time, the General Assembly
resolution on External debt sustainability

63

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

UN Plan of Action on
Disaster Risk Reduction for
Resilience

S03

The UN Plan of Action on Disaster Risk
Reduction for Resilience: Towards a Risk
informed and Integrated Approach to
Sustainable Development was adopted by
the UN Chief Executives’ Board in 2016 and
is the contribution by the UN to ensure the
implementation of the Sendai Framework
contributes to a risk-informed and
integrated approach to the achievement
of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development.
It addresses the need for coherence
and mutual re-enforcement of the UN’s
resilience building efforts, and seeks
to effectively integrate UN operational
preparedness and response capacities into
national development arrangements. The
Plan has added emphasis on country and
local level engagement while ensuring the
UN system is responsive to the needs and
contexts of different countries in regard
to disaster risk reduction. It is structured
around three commitments: 1) strengthen
system-wide coherence in support of the
Sendai Framework and other agreements
through a risk-informed and integrated
approach; 2) build UN system capacity to
deliver coordinated, high-quality support to
countries on disaster risk reduction; and, 3)
to ensure disaster risk reduction remains a
strategic priority for UN organizations.
The SRSG plays a lead role in facilitating
the implementation of the UN Plan of Action
in the UN System and convenes, at least
once a year, the Senior Leadership Group
on Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience
to review progress.

64

and development recognized that preserving
external debt sustainability requires disaster
risk reduction financing and risk disclosure.
To advance priority four of the Sendai
Framework, the General Assembly resolution
on International cooperation on humanitarian
assistance in the field of natural disasters, from
relief to development acknowledged the need
to prepare in advance to “build back better”
through post-disaster recovery, rehabilitation
and reconstruction. Similarly, the General
Assembly called for disaster risk reduction
and the Sendai Framework to be integrated
in the implementation and review of other
intergovernmental agreements related to
sustainable development, such as the Samoa
Pathway, the Istanbul Programme of Action
and the International Decade for Action on
Water for Sustainable Development.
UNISDR Regional Offices further supported
policy coherence through engagement in the
Regional Forums for Sustainable Development.
In the Asia-Pacific Region, UNISDR partnered
with UN-Habitat and UNESCAP and, as a result,
the Forum noted in its report to the High-level
Political Form on Sustainable Development
“the need to build resilient infrastructure and
develop early warning systems, including
with respect to education and preparedness
for natural disasters and economic shocks.”42
In Europe, UNISDR engaged with UNECE in
discussions on sustainable cities which valued
recommendations of the Sendai Framework
related to reliable data, inclusiveness and
finance.
The Europe Office further supported building
policy coherence through senior participation
in a high-level event hosted by the High
Representative of the European Union’s
Foreign Affairs and Security Policy entitled
Climate Peace and Security: The Time for
Action. This event included strong engagement
by Sweden’s Foreign Minister who held the
United Nations Security Council Presidency
at the time. An outcome of this event was
the European Council conclusion on water
diplomacy adopted in November 2018 which

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

The strong engagement of the Americas
Office with MERCOSUR43 and the Climate
Action Network (CAN) Member States resulted
in a common agenda for collaboration on
comprehensive disaster management and
the development and approval of a process
to strengthen intergovernmental processes in
South America.

United Nations Coordination
In 2018, UNISDR became a full-fledged
member
of
the
new
United
Nations
Sustainable Development Group (UNSDG).
UNISDR continues to facilitate and advance
implementation of the United Nations Plan
of Action on Disaster Risk Reduction for
Resilience. The United Nations Development
System Reform provides multiple opportunities

for the United Nations systems to advance the
objectives of the UN Plan of Action. Notably,
UNISDR sought to advance coherence in
United Nations support to Member States’
implementation of the Sendai Framework,
SDGs, Paris Agreement and other international
frameworks to ensure a coherent and riskinformed approach.
Other reform processes to which UNISDR
actively contributed include the Reference
Group
for
the
System-Wide
Strategic
Document and task teams on Integrated Policy
Support, Country-Focused Data & Reporting
and Partnerships. UNISDR also engaged in
the process led by UNDP to develop Common
Guidance on Helping Build Resilient
Societies. The Common Guidance on
Resilience will support the implementation of
the United Nations development system reform.
The Guidance places disaster risk reduction
as a central component of an integrated risk
and vulnerability analysis, to inform the
new generation of UNDAFs and subsequent
integrated plans and programmes.

S03

supports the Sendai Framework and notes “the
importance of raising awareness and improving
understanding of water-related disaster risks
and their impact on society.”

65

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

Disaster Risk Reduction and Humanitarian Action
To address root causes of humanitarian crises and contribute to reduce humanitarian
needs, UNISDR engaged in key thematic/sectoral areas with strategic partners across
the humanitarian/development nexus along four key work streams.

Enhanced Risk and Vulnerability Information for Better Humanitarian
Planning and Response
UNISDR uses data collection and analysis to enable anticipation of humanitarian crises
and the identification of pockets of extreme poverty. This includes the biennial Global
Assessment Report and support to the development of national disaster loss
databases. The data provided by UNISDR serves as a critical baseline to compare
against in the event of humanitarian emergencies.  UNISDR makes this information
readily available to all stakeholders to use in their planning and response efforts.
Through the increased understanding of disaster impacts, better prevention, mitigation
and preparedness measures can be planned to reduce disaster risk.

S03

Preparedness, Early Warning & Recovery
UNISDR serves in leadership and advisory roles for the Climate Risk Early Warning
Systems initiative which supports least developed countries and small island
developing states to develop effective, multi-hazard, gender-informed early warning
systems, to protect lives, livelihoods and assets.  UNISDR and its partners coordinate
the International Recovery Platform which allows countries and stakeholders to
share experiences and lessons associated with build back better. UNISDR coordinates
to ensure that the Multi-Hazard Early Warning Conference and World Reconstruction
Conference take place during the preparatory days of the Global Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction. 

Displacement
UNISDR worked closely with partners to integrate disaster risk reduction in the Global
Compact for Migration. As a result, the Global Compact’s objective on ‘minimizing
the adverse drivers and structural factors that compel people to leave their country
of origin’ is strongly linked to the Sendai Framework. As an advisory group member
in the Platform for Disaster Displacement, UNISDR supported the development of
joint recommendations for how displacement can be featured in national disaster risk
reduction strategies and plans and facilitated the development of Words Into Action
Guidelines on Disaster Displacement.

Social Protection
UNISDR’s advocacy on social protection and safety nets aims to protect the most
vulnerable in the context of disasters. Efforts on this include UNISDR’s contributions to
the drafting of the ASEAN Guidelines on Disaster Responsive Social Protection
and the Inter-American Conference on Social Security to include a stronger
focus on DRR. UNISDR and IFRC are also exploring avenues for collaboration on
forecast-based financing.

66

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

S03

Women at a community meeting in Yogyakarta, Indonesia discuss the reconstruction of their village (World Bank).

The UN Senior Leadership Group on
Disaster Risk Reduction convened annually
by the SRSG, reconfirmed in July 2018 their
commitment to the UN Plan of Action and
agreed on the priorities for work of the
Disaster Risk Reduction Focal Points Group
in 2018-2019: 1) UN Coherence on Disaster
Risk Reduction and Wider Resilience Agenda;
2) UN Capacity for Common Risk Assessment
& Analysis; 3) Coherent support to Member
States on Sendai Framework target (e); and
4) Promoting the availability and monitoring of
sex, age and disability disaggregated data. In
2018, the group of disaster risk reduction focal
points made significant progress in finalising
a Results and Accountability Framework
for monitoring and reporting annually on the
implementation of the UN Plan of Action which
will allow the first report on its progress to be
issued in time for the Global Platform 2019.
Annual reporting will, as of 2019, strengthen
UNISDR’s ability to track the results and impact
of the United Nations system’s implementation
of the UN Plan of Action.

To raise awareness about water-related
disasters and risks, UNISDR partnered with
UN Water, with the High-level Experts and
Leaders Panel on Water and Disasters44 and the
International Centre for Water Hazard and Risk
Management (ICHARM). UNISDR supported
the development and initial implementation
of the International Decade of Action “Water
and Sustainable Development” which aims
to put greater focus on the sustainable and
integrated management of water resources
while recognising the need to address waterrelated disasters as one of the challenges to
achieve sustainable development.
UNISDR
also
continued
to
strengthen
coordination
with
various
cooperation
mechanisms such as the Platform for
Environment and Disaster Risk Reduction
(PEDRR), the Climate-Risk Early Warning
Systems (CREWS), the Capacity for Disaster
Reduction Initiative (CADRI) which UNISDR
joined as an advisory member in August 2018,
and the World Bank Global Facility for Disaster
Reduction and Recovery (GFDRR).

67

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

S03

A highly risk-exposed street in the Bohol Strait, Central Visayas, Philippines (Storm Crypt).

Encouraging disaster risk
financing and tracking
Increased financing for disaster risk reduction
from the public sector in support of Priority
Three and target (f) of the Sendai Framework
is a key focus. As a major step, UNISDR’s
close engagement with the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) over the past years bore fruit in
March 2018 with the adoption of the OECD
Marker for Disaster Risk Reduction in the
OECD Development Assistance Committee
(DAC) Creditor Reporting System. The marker
came into force in January 2019, with initial
reports expected in fall 2019. The marker
aims at enhanced integration of disaster risk
considerations into development assistance,
thereby supporting data homogeneity and
comparability and qualitative measuring of
disaster risk reduction efforts. Together with
the Climate Change Adaptation Marker and
the voluntary SDG Marker, the Disaster Risk
Reduction Marker can become an important
tool to enhance a coherent approach to resilient
and sustainable development.

68

The successful implementation of the marker
will be a key element for the achievement
of Sendai target (f): substantially enhance
international
cooperation
to
developing
countries through adequate and sustainable
support to complement their national actions
for implementation of the present Framework
by 2030. Yet, reports show that many countries
find this target particularly hard to measure in
light of the qualitative nature of the indicators
which were agreed by all UN Member States.
As part of the roll-out of the Sendai Framework
Monitor, UNISDR held a consultation with
Member States to develop enhanced guidance
related to reporting on this target which will
become available in 2019.
UNISDR and OECD also engaged in the promotion
of better risk governance, including more
comprehensive and long-term risk financing
strategies. Similarly, closer engagement with
the Commonwealth Secretariat during the IMF/
World Bank Fall meeting in September 2018 as
another key partner to promote risk-informed
public and private sector financing took place.

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

“My heart feels sorrow for people who cannot help themselves when
disasters strike… and I know this is the reason why today thousands of
people from more than 50 countries around the world have gathered here
in my hometown – Ulaanbaatar. From the bottom of my heart, together
with children and youth of Asia and Pacific, I urge you to join your hands,
your minds and your passions to create a better world for all of us.”
Maralgoo (10-year-old) youth representative, featured on page 60, addressing the Asian Ministerial Conference
on Disaster Risk Reduction.

The goal and targets of the Sendai Framework
cannot be achieved with public sector financing
alone. As clearly outlined in the Sendai
Framework, success will critically depend on
more risk-sensitive private sector investment,
including through integration of disaster
risk considerations into business strategies
and plans. The Private Sector Alliance for
Disaster Resilient Societies (ARISE) is
a key vehicle for the promotion of resilience
and a risk-informed approach to investment
decisions. Over the course of 2018, UNISDR
repositioned ARISE to better align needs,
opportunities and capacities to trigger change
on the ground. ARISE Board Members and
UNISDR revised the ARISE Terms of Reference
and developed an Action Plan to focus on
building resilience at the national and local
level through ARISE National Networks. At the
global level, Board members also advocated
the business case for disaster risk reduction in
a wide variety of venues, including the 2018
HLPF and UN General Assembly sessions. At the
national level, six new ARISE networks were
launched in Barbados, the British Virgin Islands,
Dominica, Guatemala, Mexico and Nicaragua,
bringing the total number of networks to 16.
Network activities in 2018 included advocacy
and awareness raising, capacity building and
knowledge sharing and creation, with over
3,000 business leaders reached totally.
Next to ARISE, engagement with other global
private sector networks and initiatives was
expanded. The insurance industry being
a critical actor in disaster risk reduction,

engagement was strengthend though the
Insurance
Development
Forum
(see
following page) as well as partners such as
the Geneva Association. The SRSG attended
several meetings on the importance of resilient
infrastructure and the role that insurance,
through premium policies as well as asset
management, can play in encouraging greater
risk reduction and resilience. In addition,
UNISDR enhanced engagement with the UN
Global Compact, including through the SRSG’s
participation in the SDG Business Summit in
September 2018, co-hosted by the UN Global
Compact and the International Chambers
of Commerce (ICC). The event offered an
opportunity to further highlight the importance
of resilience and a risk-informed approach by
the private sector to business and investment
decisions, as well as opportunities for
partnerships with the public sector to develop
the enabling business environment for lasting
change. UNISDR continues to discuss with
the UN Global Compact on further integration
of disaster risk reduction and resilience into
the work of its networks, working groups and
member companies in 2019.

S03

Promoting risk-sensitive
private sector investments

To further raise political awareness for
resilience, UNISDR initiated a new partnership
with the World Economic Forum (WEF) to
integrate disaster and climate risks into
business strategies and decision-making. The
SRSG presented the business case for disaster
risk reduction and the Sendai Framework at
the World Economic Forum in ASEAN 2018
at Hanoi, Vietnam and participated in the
Sustainable Impact Summit hosted by WEF
during the United Nations General Assembly in
September 2018.

69

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Spotlight: Enhancing
the role of Insurance in
Disaster Risk Reduction

S03

Insurance, through both the liability and
asset side of its business, has a major
role to play in building resilience and
incentivizing risk reduction activities.
UNISDR is a member of the Insurance
Development Forum (IDF), an industryled public-private partnership supporting
the achievement of the SDGs, the
Sendai Framework, the Paris Agreement
and other 2030 Agenda agreements.
Comprised of chief executives from 26
major global insurance companies, the
IDF is well placed to become a powerful
vehicle for raising awareness and bringing
about change for better coordination of
insurance-related activities in the field
of resilience, including the development
of shared priorities and mobilization of
resources, and the promotion of strategic
and operational relationships within and
between governments, the industry, its
regulators and international institutions.
Aligned with the Sendai Framework,
UNISDR’s engagement focuses on working
with the industry to integrate insurance
within broader disaster risk management
frameworks, incentivise risk reduction
activities by its clients as well as using
its weight as a major investor to take a
lead role in including a comprehensive
risk scope in the decision-making of the
financial sector at large. The SRSG is a
member of the high-level IDF Steering
Committee which provides strategic
guidance to the IDF’s implementation.
UNISDR is furthermore engaged in the
IDF Operating Committee, hosted by the
International Insurance Society (IIS),
including the working groups on risk
modelling and assessment and on law,
regulations and resilience policies.

70

UNISDR also initiated a dialogue with the
International Chambers of Commerce
(ICC), both at the global level through its
Observer Status at the UN as well as through
its national chambers. At the global level,
the ICC engages in the UNISDR Stakeholder
Engagement
Mechanism
(SEM)
as
a
representative of the Major Group on Business
and Industry. Building on the complementarity
of mandates, ICC, the International Trade
Center (ITC) and UNISDR are developing a
new initiative on policy development, capacity
development and training, with specific focus
on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises
(MSMEs). The work will take into account
results from 2018:

•	 The findings of a private sector study
undertaken by UNISDR, CDEMA and
private sector partners in the Caribbean
recommended enhancing the resilience
of Caribbean businesses45;

•	 The efforts of the ARISE Networks in the
Americas to develop private sector action
plans and train over 200 private sector
representatives in Colombia, Dominican
Republic, Guatemala, Honduras and
Mexico on business continuity planning;

•	 Trainings carried out by UNISDR with
20 businesses in the Cook Islands
(mainly tourism and retail) and twelve
businesses in the Marshall Islands
(mainly retail) in basic risk assessment
and continuity planning. Development
of an interactive webpage to showcase
good private practices in disaster risk
reduction in the region46;

•	 Work with the Fiji Business Disaster
Resilience Council to promote resilient
investment thinking in the island
economy’s influential small business
sector resulted in disaster risk-sensitive
business planning being included on the
Council’s flagship training course for
youth entrepreneurs in 2019.

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

S03
A capacity-building workshop for a flood-prone community in Nepal to improve understanding of flood risk, mitigation efforts
and the use of Early Warning Systems (Practical Action).

At the regional level, engagement of the private
sector is rapidly picking up speed. Aligned with
the outcome of the Global Platform on Disaster
Risk Reduction in 2017 which highlighted
disaster resilient infrastructure as a key means
to achieve risk-informed development, work in
this area is happening across UNISDR. In the
Asia-Pacific Region, UNISDR co-organised
with the Government of India an international
workshop on disaster resilient infrastructure
in January 2018. The workshop identified
best practices in the infrastructure sectors
as well as key issues and recommendations
for improving existing practices. Priority
areas for collaboration on disaster resilient
infrastructure were further identified by
the experts from 23 countries representing
a variety of sectors and highlighted at the
Asian Ministerial Conference for Disaster Risk
Reduction (AMCDRR).

In the Africa Region, a group of committed
organizations, including UNISDR, drawn from
local and multinational private sector, UN
agencies, NGO’s and governments in the Eastern
Africa region established the Humanitarian
Private Sector Platform (HPPP)47. As a multistakeholder platform comprising humanitarian
and private sector entities, the platform seeks
to provide a more structured opportunity for
humanitarian, business and governments
together with community representatives to
effectively share information on opportunities
and
needs.
It
facilitates
networking,
collaboration and opportunities to address
humanitarian needs through innovations and
shared value creation. The platform ensures all
parties are integral participants in government
led disaster management from preparedness
planning to humanitarian response and early
recovery.

71

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

S03

Also, the Government of Kenya, with support
from the UN system in Kenya, has spearheaded
the SDG Partnership Platform. The Platform
is a UN Development Assistance Framework
flagship initiative which will take leadership
on
overarching
facilitation,
coordination
and demonstration of how public private
collaboration can effectively translate the
SDGs into action on the ground and thereby
guide and accelerate innovations, impact,
maximize investments and optimize resource
utilization in support of the realization of
Kenya’s Vision2030 and the “Big Four” agenda.
UNISDR participates in the SDG Partnership
inter-agency coordination meetings and plans
to support actively the priority for action on
Food Security & Agriculture, given the impact
of climate-induced disasters on agriculture and
food security. UNISDR also advocates for the
participation of the Kenyan national platform
for disaster risk reduction in the group, to
ensure multisectoral participation.

In the Americas and Caribbean Region, the
Latin America and Caribbean Economic System
(SELA) held the VII Meeting on Public-Private
Partnerships for Disaster Risk Reduction in Latin
America and the Caribbean: This was an occasion
when building resilient infrastructures was
discussed, jointly with UNISDR, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs of Mexico, Cementos Mexicanos
and the Inter-American Conference on Social
Security. The event analysed regional best
practices in terms of investment and efficient,
sustainable and responsible construction as
well as the resilience of physical infrastructure,
both public and private buildings, in particular
hospital and health services, educational and
cultural facilities.
All the Regional Platforms in 2018 had active
engagement of private sector representatives.
Notably at AMCDRR, more than 75 private
sector
representatives
participated
as
organisers, speakers and presenters. The

Spotlight on ARISE Philippines and ARISE Japan
The Philippines national network of the UNISDR ARISE initiative was particularly active
in 2018, notably spearheading the establishment of the National Resilience Council, an
innovative science and technology-focused public-private partnership. A key product of the
National Resilience Council in 2018 was the Resilient Local Government Systems Scorecard,
launched by the SRSG in Manila, Philippines in August. The Scorecard, modelled on the
UNISDR Disaster Resilience Scorecard for Cities (see page 60 of SO2), is a series of indicators
aligned with the Philippine Development Plan and the Seal of Good Local Governance. ARISE
Philippines also organised a Business Continuity Summit and the 7th Top Leaders Forum
in November 2018 under the theme From Risk to Resilience: Celebrating the Resilience
Champions and organised a series of capacity development initiatives on business continuity,
risk assessments and other topics to encourage risk-sensitive investments by the private
sector.
ARISE Japan actively supported the preparatory stages of the AMCDRR and participated
in the event held in Mongolia in July 2018 as organisers, speakers and presenters. ARISE
Japan was also engaged as the leading national level private sector stakeholder at Japan’s
national disaster risk reduction platform in October, where nine ARISE Japan members
organised sessions, ran booths and workshops and engaged in speaker roles.

72

-----------------------Page 72 End-----------------------

S03
Children in the Republic of Korea learning about disaster risk reduction through a game designed by UNISDR (UNISDR).

private sector delivered a Statement of
Cooperation in support of implementation of the
Asia Regional Plan and the Sendai Framework.
At the Regional Platform for the Americas in
Colombia, several companies showcased good
practices including risk sensitive investments
and preparedness strategies from recent
events in the region including Hurricanes Irma
and Maria, Tropical Storm Nate and the 2018
Earthquake in Mexico.
As part of the Africa-Arab Regional Platform,
over 34 representatives from business
councils and private sector firms participated
in a side event entitled “Pursuing Resilience :
Private Sector and Disaster Risk Reduction” to
enhance awareness towards safe and resilient
investments. Participants expressed strong
interest to further engage in the promotion of
risk-informed investments and decided to set

the “SendaiAfrica” Volunteer Group to sustain
discussion and seize cooperation opportunities.

Science and technology
partners
UNISDR, through the Global Science and
Technology Advisory Group (G-STAG),
regional STAGs and members of UNISDR’s
global Science and Technology Partnership
which comprises over 240 science institutions
and other partners, continued to actively
promote an enhanced science base for effective
disaster risk reduction and risk-informed
development. Representatives of the G-STAG
engaged in key intergovernmental processes
such as the ECOSOC Commission on Science
and Technology for Development, ECOSOC
Science Technology and Innovation Forum and

73

-----------------------Page 73 End-----------------------

S03

the Spring 2018 ECOSOC Integration Segment.
Working Groups established under the G-STAG
on data, education and NATECH (technological
disasters
caused
by
natural
hazards)
worked tirelessly with partners including the
International Science Council and its Integrated
Research for Disaster Risk (IRDR) and CODATA
programmes, Public Health England, GEO,
and took a lead in facilitating new research
initiatives to help countries better understand
and implement the Sendai Framework. G-STAG,
IRDR and other science partners co-organised
a science and technology meeting in Chengdu
which reiterated the requirement for closer
engagement of the broader science community
to address today’s increasingly complex and
interconnected global risk landscape. In follow
up to this, the G-STAG and partners are
leading an exercise to contextualize the 2016
Science and Technology Roadmap to this new
environment, including reinitiating action of
traditional and new science partners. A new
working group is under development to produce
technical definitions for all hazards mentioned
in the Sendai Framework. Both initiatives are
expected to be completed in 2019.
In the Asia-Pacific Region, UNISDR’s Asian

“An important part of reducing
disaster risk is strengthening
coordination. All stakeholders
need to be sitting together
and involved in all stages.”
Mr. Zahi Chahine, Disaster Risk Reduction
Management Unit, Lebanon

Science Technology and Academia Advisory
Group (ASTAAG), organised the 2nd Asian
Science and Technology Conference for
Disaster Risk Reduction conference in Beijing,
China in April 2018. The Conference resulted
in the Beijing Consensus that outlines and
reinforces key measures to implement the
global Science and Technology Roadmap and
was subsequently presented as a stakeholder

74

contribution to the AMCDRR. An overview
publication, Science and Technology into Action:
Disaster Risk Reduction Perspectives from Asia,
was also launched at the Conference.
In the Arab States Region, UNISDR organised
a consultation in Lebanon with scientists,
academics and experts from Algeria, Bahrain,
Egypt, Iraq, Lebanon, Palestine, Sudan, and
Tunisia. The attendees voted to establish the
Arab STAG to provide scientific information
and technical advice to the Arab Region and
coordinate strategic engagement of science,
research and technology with decision-makers
to increase the Arab Region’s resilience and
strengthen the regional and national disaster
risk reduction programs.
During the Regional Platform in the Americas,
a meeting of more than 30 representatives
from the academia, science and technology
sector expressed their commitment to support
the implementation of the Sendai Framework
in the Americas and discussed the relevance
and priorities that will serve as the foundation
for the creation of a Regional Science and
Technology Advisory Group. A regional survey
was then sent to science and technology
partners in the region to capture their interests,
ideas and priorities around science, technology
and disaster risk reduction.
In Africa, UNISDR facilitated the creation of
a disaster risk management network of higher
education institutions through a long-standing
collaboration with Periperi U which is a network
of African Universities committed to building
local disaster risk related capacity48. The
partnership contributes to the standardization
of disaster risk management courses in the
continent. Building on late 2017 consultations
as part of the Periperi U Annual Consultative
Meeting, the Tunis Declaration adopted by
Ministers and Heads of Delegations agreed to
establish an African Science and Technology
Advisory Group (STAG) linked to the Global
STAG49.

-----------------------Page 74 End-----------------------

Spotlight: Youth – Agents of Change for Disaster Risk
Reduction
The Sendai Framework highlights that ‘Children and youth are agents of change and
should be given the space and modalities to contribute to disaster risk reduction…’
(36aii).
Aligned with ‘Youth2030: Working with and for Young People’, the UN Youth Strategy
launched in September 2018, UNISDR supports and harnesses the energy and
motivation of youth and in 2019, will present its own ‘Youth Action Plan’ 2019-2021 to
support the UN Youth Strategy.

S03

Working closely with the Disaster Risk Reduction Working Group of the UN
Major Group on Children and Youth, the Science Policy Interface Platform, youth
representatives of the UN Major Group on Science and Technology, the UN Inter-Agency
Network on Youth Development and the UN Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth, key
focus areas of the youth engagement include advocacy and outreach, capacity building
and risk education, and catalysing and empowering youth as drivers of innovation.
In Africa, UNISDR actively engages youth in disaster risk reduction through multiple
initiatives, including through a Youth Engagement Strategy (2016-2020). In 2018,
the African Union Commission developed a Youth Advisory Board and the UNISDR Africa
Office provided inputs and comments on the draft terms of reference. The establishment
of this Board was supported through the Tunis Declaration, adopted at the AfricaArab Regional Platform. In addition, the Africa Disaster Risk Reduction Youth network
supports numerous disaster risk reduction activities in Africa and participates in the
coordination meetings such as the African Working Group. UNISDR also contributed to
compiling a publication on African youth disaster risk reduction activities which will be
published in 2019 for reference and follow-up.
In 2018, UNISDR continued to support the
reduction, including through supporting the
Professionals on Innovation, Science and
Indonesia in November 2018, in partnership

work of young scientists on disaster risk
launch of U-INSPIRE (Youth and Young
Technology Platform for Resiliency) in
with UNESCO.

In the Arab States, UNISDR worked with youth to strengthen their engagement in
Sendai implementation, including through capacity building and training, and in the
drafting of the Regional Assessment Report for Disaster Risk Reduction in the Arab
States, to be launched in 2020. In October 2018, the Arab Disaster Risk Reduction
Children & Youth Group presented a Voluntary Action Statement in support of the
Sendai Framework and Arab Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction in the margins of the
Africa-Arab Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction.
UNISDR supported the participation of youth in the Asian Ministerial Conference on
Disaster Risk Reduction. Notably, the Ulaanbaatar Declaration, commits governments to
‘support systematic inclusion of engagement and partnership with children and youth,
in all phases of disaster risk reduction through sharing of information and involvement
in decision-making processes at all levels.’

75

-----------------------Page 75 End-----------------------

Spotlight: Trade, Disaster
Risk Reduction and
Resilience

S03

The organization of trade in global value
chains with research, design, production,
distribution, sale, after-sale service
and other functions distributed across
multiple locations, can be extremely
sensitive to a range of hazards. The
effects of disruption at one point can
cascade through the entire network.
Recognizing the impact of disasters on
trade, but also the potential role of trade
to reduce risks, prevent risk creation and
build resilience, UNISDR is collaborating
with the World Trade Organization
(WTO) on new research on trade and
resilience. The work seeks to cast light
on the disruption effects of disasters and
identify measures that can be taken to
minimize risk.
Initial research results show that trade
facilitation is one area with growing
evidence of positive dividends that may
accrue from risk-informed investment in
trade systems. The new impetus given by
the WTO’s Trade Facilitation Agreement
to investment in modernizing trade
facilitation systems is an opportunity
which will be further examined. Work
also includes several country studies
(Dominica, Fiji, Nepal, Saint Lucia, Tonga
and Vanuatu) looking at the macroeconomic impact on disaster-affected
countries and trade issues arising
in disaster response, recovery and
resilience. The results of the study will
be presented in 2019.
The topic of trade, development and risk
reduction was also highlighted in a joint
event by UNISDR, the UN Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
and the International Trade Centre (ITC)
in celebration of the 2018 International
Day for Disaster Reduction which
raised awareness among the trade and
development community about the rising
economic impacts of disaster risk and
their impacts on sustainable development
and trade.

76

Mobilising and strengthening
civil society and community
organizations
In alignment with the Sendai Framework
which recognises the unique roles and
vulnerabilities of civil society actors in
building resilience and reducing disaster
risk, UNISDR strengthened its engagement
with civil society and community-based
organizations through the Stakeholder
Engagement Mechanism (SEM). Key focus
areas for this partnership are youth,
displacement and inclusion of persons with
disabilities.
Civil Society organizations were actively
engaged in the organization of all Regional
Platforms. In Arab States, engagement of
civil society organizations is now channelled
through a newly established Arab States
Stakeholder Engagement Mechanism which
is aligned with the global SEM.
At the regional level, civil society and
non-governmental entities working on
disaster risk reduction in the Asia-Pacific
Region are coordinated by the Asian
Disaster Reduction and Response Network
(ADRRN). The ADRRN actively contributed
to the regional platform mechanisms in
the region, both at the AMCDRR and the
ISDR-Asia Partnership (IAP) Forums. A
key highlight of the engagement was the
Asian Local Leaders Forum for Disaster
Resilience which was recognised by the Asia
Regional Action Plan for Implementation of
the Sendai Framework. Local leaders from
five countries were critically recognised
for their contribution at this event50. Other
civil society entities, including groups
representing persons with disability, children
and youth, women and gender, also actively
contributed to the AMCDRR and IAP and
to the drafting of the Action Plan through
participation in the Drafting Committee of
the documents.

-----------------------Page 76 End-----------------------

Parliamentarians and other
decision makers advocate
for disaster risk-sensitive
development
In 2018, as part of the new Partnership and
Stakeholder Engagement Strategy, UNISDR
identified the following key areas for
engagement with parliamentarians, building
on previous work:

•	 development of model disaster risk
reduction laws and legal frameworks at
the regional and national levels;

•	 advocacy for the integration of disaster
risk reduction into national and local
budgets and enhanced oversight and
accountability;

•	 capacity development and training
for parliamentarians on risk-informed
development and legislation. To
implement the strategy, UNISDR will
put greater focus on working through
key partners, such as the InterParliamentary Union and other global
and regional networks to strengthen
depth, breadth and sustainability of
engagement.
UNISDR also continued to work with
individual parliamentarians as advocates
for disaster risk reduction and disaster risksensitive development. Using opportunities
such as the Regional Platforms which were
actively attended by parliamentarians
throughout 2018, the SRSG had meetings
with
parliamentarians
from
various
countries including from Bangladesh, Japan,
Mexico and the Philippines, committing to
working together for the implementation of
the Sendai Framework and encouraging the
sharing of best practices in terms of disaster
risk reduction legislation and parliamentary
oversight. The Japanese Parliamentarian
Voluntary Support Group for UNISDR,
established in 2017, is now the largest
national support group for disaster risk
reduction, engaged in multiple advocacy
events globally, including at a high-level
event organised by UNISDR for World
Tsunami Awareness Day on 5 November in
New York.

S03

In the Africa Region, UNISDR works
closely with civil society stakeholder groups,
largely coordinated by the Global Network
for Disaster Risk Reduction (GNDRR). The
civil society groups are largely comprised
of community-based disaster risk reduction
practitioners who come together to
share their lessons learned and develop
voluntary commitments for accelerating
implementation of the Sendai Framework
at the local level. During the 2018 AfricaArab Regional Platform, the Disaster Risk
Reduction group delivered a joint statement
to reiterate commitment to disaster risk
reduction, acknowledging the increased
threat resulting from natural hazards
and worsening effect of conflict in fragile
states. The Group also called for enhanced
cooperation towards fulfilling the targets of
the Africa Union’s Agenda 2063 and inclusion
in the decision-making process. Finally, the
Group committed to “promote coherence
between existing global frameworks and
ensure community participation as a pillar
of building back better in preparedness for
response, recovery and reconstruction”51.

UNISDR also worked with Members of the
European Parliament (MEPs) to integrate
disaster isk reduction in a European
Parliament report on sustainable finance
in May 2018 and continued engagement
on disaster risk reduction and sustainable
finance with MEPs throughout the year,
including by providing advice on how to
strengthen disaster risk reduction and
a risk-informed approach in the draft
European Union Budget 2021-202752.
In this context, the SRSG delivered a
keynote speech at the Global Legislators
Organisation
(GLOBE)
EU
High-Lebel
Conference : “Missing pieces in the evolution
to Sustainable Finance”.
77

-----------------------Page 77 End-----------------------

S03

A capacity-building exercise on the UNISDR platform for recording voluntary contributions to the Sendai Framework (UNISDR).

In Central Africa, a group of parliamentarian
created a network for resilience to disasters
called REPARC. The seven founding countries,
namely: Democratic Republic of Congo,
Equatorial Guinea, Republic of Congo, Gabon,
Burundi, Tchad and Cameroon, have worked
on joint initiatives for the inclusion of disaster
risk reduction in national policies, information
sharing and enhanced capacities for disaster
risk management.

UNESCO joined the IRP Steering Committee in
January 2018 as its 17th member. In addition,
the first comprehensive review of the IRP was
conducted from May to November upon the
finalization of the terms of reference of the
review of the IRP Steering Committee. The final
report of the IRP Review, including a number
of recommendations, was submitted to the IRP
Steering Committee for its consideration in
2019.

Partnership for Building Back
Better

Voluntary commitments
by stakeholders for Sendai
Framework Implementation

UNISDR
continued
to
coordinate
the
International Recovery Platform (IRP), a
thematic platform to promote build back better
in recovery and advocate for the implementation
of Priority 4 of Sendai Framework. In 2018,
the IRP coordinated several key events,
including the International Recovery Forum
in January under the theme of Build Back
Better in Urban Resilience and a side event
during AMCDRR focusing on “Recovery as an
Opportunity to Prevent Risk”. In 2018, IRP
issued four knowledge products including the
supplementary edition of the Guidance Note
on Recovery for the Health and four volumes
(Vol.21-24) of the IRP Herald to share various
discussions to promote build back better in
recovery53.

78

Prior to, and during the Third UN World
Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction in
2015, Member States underlined the shared
responsibility of stakeholders for disaster risk
reduction and called for specific and time-bound
voluntary commitments (VCs) by stakeholders
at local, national, regional and global levels in
line with disaster risk reduction strategies and
plans to support the implementation of the
Sendai Framework. As a result, a broad base
of stakeholders made hundreds of voluntary
commitments to implement the Sendai
Framework54.

-----------------------Page 78 End-----------------------

Following intensive consultations with various
stakeholders, UNISDR developed an online
platform which was launched in December 2018.
The new platform (https://sendaicommitments.
unisdr.org/) includes the commitments made
in 2015 and also allows for submissions year
round. By logging commitments in an open and
accessible platform, stakeholders can inform
the public about their work while identifying

opportunities for collaboration with potential
partners to maximise impact. In turn, UNISDR
can monitor and take stock of the work done
to increase the effectiveness of stakeholders’
shared responsibility towards implementation
of the Sendai Framework. UNISDR will
develop and present the first Analysis Report
of Voluntary Commitments at the 2019 Global
Platform.

Spotlight: Inclusion and Accessibility

S03

In 2018, UNISDR ensured that the disability constituency were actively engaged in the
new Stakeholder Engagement Advisory Group represented by the International Disability
Alliance. Furthermore, as a member of the Inter-Agency Support Group to the Convention
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, UNISDR actively contributed to the UN Flagship
Report on Disability and Development 2018. This featured the results of a seminal
survey carried out by UNISDR in 2013 which laid bare the crude reality of discrimination
that persons with disabilities suffer from in disaster risk management in a chapter of the
Report on “Building resilience of persons with disabilities and reducing their exposure to
and impact from climate-related hazards and other shocks and disasters.” The Report
highlights how through the implementation of the Sendai Framework disability, inclusive
disaster risk reduction is starting to be mainstreamed at regional level.
Furthermore, UNISDR contributed to the European Union mid-term assessment of the
European Disability Strategy 2010-2020 and ensured that adequate reference to the
Sendai Framework is included. In 2019, the European Commission Humanitarian Aid
& Civil Protection (DG ECHO) published its “Operational Guidance Note on Disability
Inclusion in EU-funded operations” which acknowledges the Sendai Framework for its
“increased consideration of disability and inclusion” and includes indicators that are in
support for the Sendai Framework monitoring process.
Internally, UNISDR developed draft guidelines for engagement of persons with
disabilities across the organization. This includes accessibility to UNISDR meetings which
builds on the achievements in 2018, where all Regional Platforms were accessible for
persons with disabilities. All Regional Platform outcome documents called for an inclusive
approach to disaster risk reduction into policies, strategies, plans and programmes, and
urged for data disaggregation by sex, age and disability as part of the Sendai Framework
Monitor to assess progress in achievement of global and national targets and indicators.
UNISDR also actively engaged in the Second Global Conference on Persons with Disabilities
in Bangladesh in May 2018. The outcome document, the Dhaka+ Declaration, is
aligned with the Sendai Framework and will guide the activities of the community until
2030. UNISDR is supporting the implementation through its active engagement with the
Disability Stakeholder Group under the lead of the International Disability Alliance.

79

-----------------------Page 79 End-----------------------

80

Enabler 1

-----------------------Page 80 End-----------------------

ENABLER 1

Effective Knowledge
Management, Communication
and Global Advocacy
RESULT 2.1

RESULT 2.2
Increased reach and public
engagement in disaster
Enhanced
visibility
of disaster risk
risk reduction
through
reduction
through
UNISDR’s
communication, media andglobal
advocacy
marketing

Enabler 1 of the UNISDR Work Programme
2016-2019 through which UNISDR achieves
impact, through knowledge brokering,
effective communication and global
advocacy campaigns, ensuring stakeholder
engagement.

Enabler 1

Enhanced visibility of disaster
risk reduction through
UNISDR’s global advocacy

ENABLER 1

UNISDR activated the third focus area
RESULT 2.3
of the UNISDR Sendai Seven Campaign:
Seven
Targets,
Seven Years
Effective
learning
and in 2018,
emphasizing
target
(c) of the
Sendai
knowledge
sharing
promoted
Framework,
reducing
economic
across the organization losses,
and and
kicking
off
with
a
blog
on
the
High
Level
externally
Political Forum website, authored by the
SRSG.
The campaign
was linked closely
RESULT
2.4
with the launch of the Sendai Framework
Appropriate,
sustainable
and
Monitor
in March, announced
across
a range
predictable financial
of communication
channels, resource
including a press
baseon
exists
release,
social media and in an opinion
piece which highlighted that “while we often
have reliable estimates for mortality and
numbers of people affected by disasters,

Flags on a main bridge in Geneva,
Switzerland raises awareness on
the International Day for Disaster
Reduction.

81

-----------------------Page 81 End-----------------------

Telling the global story of
disaster risk reduction
UNISDR launched a series of both owned and
leveraged advocacy events in 2018 across
the globe. A mixture of leading research,
stakeholder events and media engagement
placed messages about Target (e) of the Sendai
Framework squarely on the international
agenda.

Enabler 1

UNISDR activated the third focus area
of the UNISDR Sendai Seven Campaign:
Seven Targets, Seven Years in 2018
– Sendai Framework target (c), reducing
economic losses kicking off with a blog on the
High Level Political Forum website, authored by
the SRSG55. The campaign was linked closely
with the launch of the Sendai Framework
Monitor in March, announced across a range
of communication channels, including a press
release, on social media and in an opinion
piece which highlighted that “while we often
have reliable estimates for mortality and
numbers of people affected by disasters,
until now too few governments have had the
will or the means to systematically collect
comprehensive data on economic losses and
the damage inflicted on critical infrastructure,
housing, agricultural production, livelihoods,
cultural and environmental assets.” Signifying
the relevance of economic losses related to
disasters, the World Trade Organization hosted
a first “Natural Disasters and Trade Symposium”
which called for greater dialogue on the impacts
of the growing numbers of disasters on world
trade and on the role trade can play in building
resilience to disasters.
Communication activities in support of
Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction
in the Americas, Asia, Africa/Arab States and
Europe provided opportunities through SRSG
speeches, opinion pieces and social media
to reinforce messaging around the need to
improve data collection on economic losses.
Communication messages also emphasised the
need for coherence in the implementation of the
Sendai Framework, the Paris Agreement and

82

the SDGs, drawing attention to the deadline in
2020 for implementation of Sendai Framework
target (e) which seeks a substantial increase
in the number of countries with national and
local strategies for disaster risk reduction. This
messaging filtered through into the outcome
documents from all regional platforms in 2018.
Reflecting on the link between economic
losses for the poor and high levels of internal
displacement from disasters in his message to
the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster
Risk Reduction, the UN Secretary-General
said:

“Last year, extreme weather
events were largely responsible
for displacing almost 19 million
people around the world. Asia is
the most disaster-prone region
in the world and accounted
for almost half this number.
They cost hundreds of billions
of dollars, hitting the poorest
countries disproportionately and
pushing millions into poverty.”

Global Advocacy: International
Day for Disaster Reduction and
World Tsunami Awareness Day
UNISDR released, in close collaboration with
the Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of
Disasters (CRED), a seminal ‘Economic Losses,
Poverty & Disasters 1998-2017’ report on
International Day for Disaster Reduction
(IDDR), 13 October highlighting that 91 per
cent of disaster events are climate-related56.
These account for 77 per cent of the US$ 3
trillion in recorded economic losses from
climate-related and geophysical disasters over
the last 20 years. The report also reinforced
the message on the importance of good data
collection, highlighting that economic data is not

-----------------------Page 82 End-----------------------

UN Framework Convention in Climate Change
entitled Climate change is a major multiplier
of disaster losses. The SRSG also made use
of the report’s findings in her contribution to
the Talanoa Dialogue at COP24 and revisited
the theme in another opinion piece to coincide
with COP24 “What if we knew the real costs of
climate change”?58
The Americas Office organised a regional
event in Panama City to raise awareness about
economic losses due to disasters and produced
a video focusing on the economic impacts of
disasters as they relate to the tourism sector
in the Caribbean59. Additionally, an event was
organised in Guatemala focusing on scientific
evidence and information in order to create
awareness about country-level risk exposure
around economic losses.
The UN Secretary-General described the
World Tsunami Awareness Day (WTAD),
5 November, as “an opportunity to emphasize
again the importance of disaster prevention
and preparedness, including early warning,
public education, science to better understand
and predicts tsunamis, and foster development
that takes account of risk in seismic zones

Enabler 1

available for 63 per cent of 7,255 disaster events
recorded in the Emergency Events Database
maintained by the Centre for Research on the
Epidemiology of Disasters at the University
of Louvain. Interest in the linkages between
disaster and economic loss was clear: media
coverage of the report had a potential reach of
1.3 billion people. This major advocacy report
had substantial trickle-down effect, feeding into
discussions in forums co-organised by UNCTAD,
the MIKTA countries (Mexico, Indonesia, Korea,
Turkey and Australia) and WTO, and was
featured at the joint Africa-Arab Platform on
Disaster Risk Reduction in Tunisia. The United
Nations Secretary-General commented that
comprehensive accounting of economic losses
“is crucial for progress on crisis prevention57.
For example, a better understanding of the
economic losses from extreme weather events
can help generate greater action on climate
change and increased ambition on reducing
greenhouse
gas
emissions.” Leveraging
advocacy opportunities provided by the IPCC
Special Report on Global Warming at 1.5˚C,
UNISDR linked the International Day with
its publication, participating in the Climate
Dialogue on the Special Report event and
publishing a joint opinion piece with the head of

83

-----------------------Page 83 End-----------------------

Workers constructing seawalls to prevent soil erosion in Tarawa, Kiribati (World Bank).

Enabler 1

and exposed coastal areas”. This message
was delivered in the aftermath of his visit to
the tsunami-devastated Central Sulawesi,
Indonesia. The Secretary-General also made
the link with the high level of economic
losses ensuing from tsunamis in his message.
The stage for WTAD was set by a HighLevel Panel discussion organised with the
Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission
(IOC) of UNESCO in Paris which highlighted
the significant challenges caused by lack of
maintenance of early warning systems and
near-field tsunamis60.
Partnering with country-level media is
essential for furthering a joined-up approach to
ensuring disaster risk reduction is mainstreamed
into national policies. To draw attention to
country-level leadership and responsibility, the
SRSG published an opinion piece in The Japan
Times and participated with representatives
from tsunami exposed countries - Chile,
Indonesia, Japan, the Maldive Islands - in a
high-level event at UN HQ in New York. Special
events were also held at the Americas Regional
Platform (June, Colombia), the Asian Ministerial
Conference for Disaster Risk Reduction (July,
Mongolia), and the joint Africa-Arab Platform
(October, Tunisia). For the third year, Japan

84

hosted a High School Students Summit61 which
attracted 379 participants from 48 countries,
in Wakayama prefecture Japan. Students
learned about disaster risk reduction and how
to serve as Youth Ambassadors for Tsunami
Disaster Risk Reduction and to support their
communities to build resilience from disasters.
The 2nd World Tsunami Museum Conference
in Tokyo attracted 156 participants from 17
countries, highlighting the concept of museums
as cultural hubs which keep alive the memory
of past events, and established a network
among participating museums which can be
capitalized on to exchange ideas, material, and
assets through ICT and other technologies.
Continuing the theme of economic loss on owned
social media channels, UNISDR published
three videos for WTAD and IDDR, highlighting
the severe economic damages, tsunami
risk in Europe and need for disaster resilient
infrastructure. The videos received more than
6,000 views in the first 24 hours of being posted.
In the European Region, UNISDR coordinated
a number of events in many countries to mark
the day. In Montenegro, evacuation exercises
of persons with disabilities were organised.
There were also events and activities in Croatia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Spain and many other

-----------------------Page 84 End-----------------------

“Measures to adapt the inevitable impacts of climate change are just as
important as cutting greenhouse gases. The world requires an integrated
approach to disaster risk reduction and tackling climate change.”
A joint statement for the International Day for Disaster Reduction by Special Representative of the SecretaryGeneral for Disaster Risk Reduction, Ms. Mami Mizutori and the Executive Secretary of the United Nations Framework
Convention on Climate Change, Ms. Patricia Espinosa.

UNISDR supported a range of influential IDRR
and WTAD outreach activities in the AsiaPacific region. In 2018, at least 11 countries
in Asia-Pacific held IDDR events. Notably, the
Government of Indonesia marked the 2018 IDDR
with a number of events under the umbrella
of the National Disaster Risk Reduction Month
Commemoration. This month-long celebration
culminated with a series of activities in Medan
City, in the North Sumatra Province engaging
more than 5,000 active participants. Activities
included technical and thematic events as
well as public engagement and awareness
raising events, such as 10-kilometre run and
a disaster risk reduction contest for students.
The Chief of Asia-Pacific Regional Office joined
the Government of Indonesia in Medan City to
participate and support these events.
In the Pacific, the International Day for
Disaster Reduction was the catalyst for Fiji’s
National Disaster Awareness Week which
aimed to increase public understanding on how
to reduce the risk from tsunami, earthquake
and drought. The week strategically linked
public outreach with policy-focused activities,
including opportunities for consultations on
the country’s National Drought Response Plan.
For the first time in the Marshall Islands, IDDR

provided an opportunity where the national
disaster management office and its partners
focused on raising awareness and preparedness
amongst high school students to strengthen
school disaster prevention planning.
UNISDR chaired a special event on tsunami
preparedness profiling the global innovation
of Wellington, New Zealand, in painting blue
lines on streets across the city to clearly
indicate tsunami safety zones. The session
at Wellington’s National Te Papa Museum
was a feature of a major conference on risk
communication in Asia Pacific (ISCRAM 2018).
The ‘blue line to safety’ initiative has spread
globally including to the Indonesia, Japan and
the United States of America.

Enabler 1

locations. In Italy, the 8th edition of the I don’t
take risks – Best practices of civil protection
communication campaign took place with 3,500
civil protection volunteers meeting citizens in
squares throughout Italy to raise awareness on
seismic, flood and tsunami risks.

As a sign of the growing significance of WTAD
in mobilising action in Asia-Pacific, some
countries used WTAD as an occasion to launch
new disaster risk reduction-related initiatives.
For instance, the Thai Public Broadcasting
Service launched their Disaster Communication
Development Centre to serve as a coordination
mechanism between the government and
the media to improve the dissemination of
timely and accurate information to the public
before and during disasters. The Government
of Australia released its 2018 Probabilistic
Tsunami Hazard Assessment (PTHA). As the
first update in ten years, this new assessment
will inform Australia’s infrastructure resilience
planning and risk mitigation strategies, as well
as disaster management and evacuation plans.

85

-----------------------Page 85 End-----------------------

Knowledge Brokering
through Expert Services

Enabler 1

To
continue
improving
topical
relevance
and
community
connection, PreventionWeb hosted
four Ask-an-Expert sessions in 2018
on Avoidable Deaths, Reducing
Economic Losses, Fire Safety and
Evacuation Measures in Buildings
and Disaster Risk Assessment. The
Disaster Risk Reduction Voices Blog
shares stories and perspectives from
disaster risk reduction practitioners
and academics on reducing risk
and
building
resilience.
The
featured experts came from various
backgrounds, including academia,
non-governmental
organizations,
the private sector and intergovernmental organizations. A total
of 16 blogs on a varied set of issues
were published in 2018.
The Disaster Risk Reduction Voices
Blog series covered a variety of
topics, including:

•	

•	

•	

86

Inclusion (marginalized groups,
sexual and gender minorities,
refugees, homeless people)
Economic losses (challenges in
data collection, developments
in the financial sector)
Communication (risk
communication, disaster
coverage in the media)

UNISDR created and launched a child-friendly
booklet “Get up to high ground,”62 that
uses simple messages to generate life-saving
tsunami awareness among children aged 6-12
years old. UNISDR also produced a short
video to raise awareness about how tsunamis
disproportionately impact vulnerable groups
such as women, children, the elderly and
persons with disabilities63. The video features
interviews with survivors and victims of past
tsunamis, giving voice to their needs and
experiences. It also includes practical advice
and guidance to ensure preparedness and
evacuation efforts are inclusive.

Creating public opportunities
to advocate for disaster risksensitive development
In 2018, UNISDR worked with Disaster Risk
Reduction Champion, former President of
Finland, Ms. Tarja Halonen, on a special video
message highlighting the impact of the high
economic costs of disasters on women and girls
in particular, as well as sustainability. Ms. Petra
Nemcova, UNISDR’s World Tsunami Awareness
Advocate, international model and 2004
tsunami survivor, took part with the SRSG in an
event targeting students. This event was also
used to launch an upgraded version of the Stop
Disasters Game which helps educate children,
using a fun medium, about how they can be
actively involved in reducing tsunami risk and
impact.
UNISDR recognised the work of a number of
people who champion disaster loss reduction
through the implementation of the Sendai
Framework. Mr. John Schneider, the SecretaryGeneral of the Global Earthquake Model (GEM)
was presented with the Damir Cemerin Award
at the European Forum on Disaster Risk
Reduction. GEM has carried out seismic risk
assessments in more than 150 countries. GEM’s
OpenQuake web-based platform is the result
of a fully collaborative policy of data and tool
sharing using open source software for the
assessment of earthquake hazard and risk.

-----------------------Page 86 End-----------------------

Stakeholders logging on to the upgraded version of UNISDR’s Stop Disasters Game, an interactive game aimed at building
children’s understanding of disaster risk management.

UNISDR also opened the nomination process
for the 2019 Sasakawa Award which will
recognize
individuals,
organizations
and
initiatives that have best contributed to ensuring
inclusive, accessible and non-discriminatory
participation in disaster risk reduction activities.
The winners will be announced at the Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in May
2019.

Strategic communication and
advocacy

Enabler 1

The Africa Regional Office organised the first
African Media Awards. Reflecting a growing
appetite for better informed media and
disaster risk reporting, more than 100 entries
from 16 countries were announced in Tunis
on International Day for Disaster Reduction
at the Africa-Arab Platform on Disaster Risk
Reduction. The awards for the best reporting
on disaster risk reduction went to Ms. Ruth
Keah Kadide, Radio Rahma, Kenya; Ms. Dicta
Asiimwe, The East African, Uganda; Mr. Romain
Dekadjevi, Radio Tokpa, Benin, and Ms. Mai
Elshafei, Egyptian TV.

Strong growth continued in UNISDR’s outreach
on all platforms. This was fuelled by original
content in the form of press releases, web
news stories, opinion pieces, speeches,
videos and posts on social media in line with
the Communications and Advocacy Strategy,
Resilience for All (2018-2019).
The Sendai Framework Monitor was successfully
launched and the collection of good quality data,
particularly on economic losses, was a constant
theme in communications and advocacy
throughout the year. A communications
strategy was developed for the 2019 Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction and
implementation of the strategy began in
2018. A new communications strategy for the
Making Cities Resilient Campaign was also
developed in 2018 and is being implemented.
Work is also ongoing with the new board of the
ARISE initiative to develop a communications
strategy in the context of the new Partnership

87

-----------------------Page 87 End-----------------------

PreventionWeb
In 2018, PreventionWeb continued its growth as the world’s only disaster risk reduction
knowledge platform, publishing more than 400 new entries each month. More than 92,000
visits to the site per month, registering 122,000 individual sessions, increasing its relevance
to those working on the forefront of dealing with disaster risk.
PreventionWeb now features more than 45,000 entries in its knowledge base. To point users
to relevant knowledge on specific topics and emerging trends, new resource guides were
created including on assessing and disclosing climate-related financial risks, making the
business case for disaster risk reduction, fragility and disasters, disaster risk in a warming
world, evacuation behaviour, and volunteerism for disaster risk reduction.

Preventionweb Audience
What Users Are Looking For:

Where Users Are From:
17%

Enabler 1

42%

59%

43%
40%

Information about
Disaster Risk

Resources and Tools
on How to Reduce Disaster Risk

High Risk
Countries

Medium Risk
Countries

Low Risk Countries
and Other

Why Users Go To PreventionWeb:
50

40

47%
40%

30

30%

20

10

0

	

88

To Support/
Develop Disaster Risk
Reduction Project

To Advance Risk
Informed Investment/
Disaster Risk Reduction

To Inform
Policy
Development

-----------------------Page 88 End-----------------------

Ambassador Josefa Sacko, Commissioner for Rural
Economy and Agriculture, African Union Commission

Engagement
Mechanism
launched
in
December, to encourage stakeholder support
to implementation of the Sendai Framework
(for more on the Partnership Engagement
Mechanism see SO3).
There was continued organic growth on UNISDR
social media outlets: followers on Twitter
rose from 52,500 to 61,000; Facebook rose
from 18,600 to 21,300; the SRSG twitter
account, 3,200 to 4,700. This growth was
driven by a continued focus on generating
fresh news content and commentary around
the implementation of the Sendai Framework.
This output included 132 web news stories, 24
press releases, 16 SRSG blogs/ opinion pieces,
20-plus SRSG speeches/ video messages, and
three messages prepared for the UN SecretaryGeneral. The corporate website, www.unisdr.
org attracted more than 620,000 visitors.
The Regional Office for the Americas has
implemented
a
communication
strategy
on social media to increase reach and
engagement, and connected online growth with
offline outreach opportunities, to promote the
following topics: private sector engagement
(January to March 2018); VI Regional platform
themes (April to August 2018); International
Day for Disaster Risk Reduction (September
to October 2018); World Tsunami Awareness
Day (October and November 2018) and urban
resilience (November and December 2018).

In line with the Sendai Framework which
recognises the important contribution of the
media in raising awareness and educating
the general public to increase investments in
disaster risk reduction, UNISDR proactively
engaged with Africa-wide media through
reinvigorating the Diraj network of African
journalists, that was originally launched in
2013, to raise awareness about disaster
risk reduction.
In addition to continued
engagement, the Regional Office for Africa also
involved media representatives in campaigns
and celebrations and systematically promoted
articles and visuals produced by the network.
Forty two representatives from media groups
attended the Africa-Arab Platform in Tunis
and UNISDR and Diraj held a media training
workshop during the event. As a result of
Africa Office’s increased engagement with
CNBC Africa, the Platform saw extensive
mediatic coverage, particularly through the
broadcasting of interviews and a 30mn TV
Programme on disaster risk reduction that
aimed to increase awareness of the public
at large. The programme had a potential TV
audience of 24 million subscribers as well as
700,000 social media followers, across 48
countries in Africa64.

Enabler 1

“The African Union will seek
to collaborate on achieving
sustainable development
informed by disaster risk
reduction. Disasters do not
make any distinction between
borders and continents.”

Promoting effective learning and
knowledge sharing
In 2018, UNISDR conducted a technical audit
of its online ecosystem which recommended
the migration of it digital properties to a new
content management system in line with
United Nations standards. The new platform
will ensure technology, architecture and brand
consistency across all websites. To support this
effort, a new set of branding guidelines was
developed which will apply to all communication
products. The redesign of UNISDR corporate
website has been initiated and procurement is
underway to identify a vendor to conduct the
migration. Implementation towards building
the new platform is expected to start in early
2019.

89

-----------------------Page 89 End-----------------------

WORDS INTO

Translating the large panel of theoretical disaster risk reduction and resilience building information
into practical tools that can be used on the ground continued through the Words into Action
initiative. These guides are instrumental in building capacity through connecting best practice with
on-ground realities to improve disaster risk reduction outcomes. Two new guides were launched
in 2018: ‘Implementation Guide for Addressing Water-Related Disasters and Transboundary
Cooperation’ and ‘Man-made and Technological Hazards’. Two additional Words into Action guides,
‘Disaster Displacement: How to Reduce Risk, Address Impacts and Strengthen Resilience’ and
‘Implementation guide for local disaster risk reduction and resilience strategies’ were published for
public review and feedback, and will be launched at the Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction
in May 2019. UNISDR previously released three guides and currently has nine others in advanced
stages of development. All of the guides are the result of collaboration with many partners both
inside and outside the United Nations and point to UNISDR’s growing convening and knowledgebrokering role.

Implementation Guide for Addressing
Water-Related Disasters and Transboundary
Cooperation: Integrating disaster risk
management with water management

Enabler 1

This guide intends to provide guidance to implement the Sendai
Framework and the Water Convention by offering a road map with
concrete examples to help address water-related disasters, especially
in situations where the transboundary context adds to the complexity
of risk reduction. It specifically targets the water, disaster risk
reduction and climate change communities and aims to bring them
together so that they may jointly design effective and comprehensive
disaster reduction measures.

Words into Action Guidelines
Implementation Guide for Man-made
and Technological Hazards

UN Ofﬁce for Disaster Risk Reduction

90

Man-made and technological hazards
This guide seeks to address man-made and technological hazards by
strengthening national and local disaster management plans to include
these hazards and by raising awareness of the risks and impacts of
man-made and technological hazards. It provides a set of evidencebased, practical activities for implementation at national and local
levels for chemical, industrial and transport accidents, and nuclear
and radiological hazards under each of the Sendai Framework’s four
priorities for action. The guide highlights the existing diversity of
thematic frameworks, institutional and legal mechanisms at global
and regional levels that are related to and used for addressing manmade hazards. It also draws attention to existing collaborations to
implement these tools within the disaster risk reduction community
and key partners.

-----------------------Page 90 End-----------------------

ACTION GUIDES

Disaster Displacement: How to Reduce Risk,
Address Impacts and Strengthen Resilience
This guide offers practical guidance to help government authorities
integrate disaster displacement and other related forms of human
mobility into regional, national, sub-national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies in accordance with target (e) of the Sendai
Framework, to revise or develop disaster risk reduction strategies by
2020. It provides basic background information and highlights the
various roles disaster risk management and disaster risk reduction
can play in reducing, preparing for and responding to disaster
displacement.

Enabler 1

The guide is primarily intended to support the work of: 1) Regional,
national, sub-national and local disaster risk management actors,
particularly disaster management agencies in addressing disaster
displacement risk; 2) National and regional governments in ensuring
that policies to avoid and manage displacement within and across
borders are coherent across all relevant sectors; 3) National and
sub-national law and policymakers, such as parliamentarians, in
regulating measures to reduce and manage disaster displacement;
4) Local land-use planning and urban development authorities
responsible for reducing vulnerabilities and exposure that may lead to
displacement, and in ensuring disaster displacement risk is included
in spatial development plans.

Implementation guide for local disaster risk
reduction and resilience strategies
The guide highlights the role of local authorities in disaster risk
reduction. Indeed, one of the targets of the Framework is to
substantially increase the number of countries not only with national,
but also local disaster risk reduction strategies. In the past decades,
more and more people have migrated to settle in cities, searching for
better economic opportunities. However, when cities are overwhelmed
it can lead to unplanned urbanization which increases vulnerability
of the urban population to many risks, including those related
to disasters. This guide is meant to inspire those actors who are
interested in creating effective local resilience strategies and to help
local governments towards the development and fine-tuning of the
local disaster risk reduction strategies, supporting cities to become
more resilient.

91

-----------------------Page 91 End-----------------------

92

Enabler 2

-----------------------Page 92 End-----------------------

ENABLER 2

Strengthened Organizational
Performance

Enabler 2

Through Enabler 2 of its Work Programme
2016-2019, UNISDR seeks to strengthen its
operational efficiency through leveraging new
technology and continually improving resultsbased management and through concurrent
planning, monitoring and evaluation. UNISDR
also works to enhance its human resource
management and staff development in line with
its commitment to the UN system-wide policy
on gender equality and to improve operational
performance. UNISDR efforts through Enabler
2 were positively recognized in 2018 through
both an Office of Internal Oversight Services
(OIOS) audit and the UN System-Wide Action
Plan on Gender Equality and the Empowerment
of Women (UN-SWAP) annual evaluation
exercise.

RESULT 2.1
Enhanced effectiveness,
efficiency and quality of
operational performance,
based on appropriate gendersensitive internal policies,
structure and staffing
UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction
Director Madi moderating a working
session entitled “Gender Inclusive
Disaster Risk Reduction” at the
Africa-Arab Platform for Disaster
Risk Reduction (UNISDR).

93

-----------------------Page 93 End-----------------------

Strengthening financial
planning, management and
monitoring
In 2018, UNISDR focused on achieving key
operational and financial targets, managing
for results and using information technology.
To harness existing new technologies, UNISDR
piloted a Customer Relations Management
platform
for
intra-office
administrative
processing and will begin utilizing the platform
in 2019. This will allow to more efficiently
process administrative requests from across
its 12 offices, and to have a smooth transition
when the United Nations Global Service Delivery
Centre for all administrative services starts65.

To further increase efficiency in the delivery
of administrative services, UNISDR is in the
process of preparing and training staff in the
use of a variety of guidance notes that outline
standard procedures for undertaking all key
administrative tasks. This sets the foundation
for future decentralization to its regional offices
of day-to-day operational decision making.
To enhance programme monitoring and
implementation, UNISDR began to use the
Business Intelligence module of the
Enterprise
Resource
Planning
(ERP)
system, Umoja. As part of this change, UNISDR
now issues automated financial reports and
disseminates these reports via email on a
weekly basis to all programme managers and
feeds a management monitoring dashboard.

Audit by the Office of Internal Oversight Services
In September 2018, the Office of Internal Oversight Services (OIOS) conducted a
comprehensive audit of UNISDR66. The objective of the audit was “to assess whether
UNISDR governance, risk management and control processes were efficient and effective
to achieve its strategic objectives in compliance with relevant administrative issuances.”

Enabler 2

UNISDR was pleased that this audit was included in the 2018 risk-based work plan of OIOS,
“due to the risk that inadequate coordination and support to Member States and other
key stakeholders may threaten the overall success of the Sendai Framework”, as this was
indicative of the importance OIOS places on the successful implementation of the Sendai
Framework.
The OIOS report positively recognized that “UNISDR established key foundational
elements for supporting the implementation of the Sendai Framework.” The report
further highlighted that UNISDR established the processes to ensure achievement of its
strategic objectives, including a mechanism for monitoring results, a resource mobilization
strategy, a comprehensive capacity development strategy, a partnership strategy and an
action plan to reduce vacancies and increase compliance rates for mandatory training and
had sound financial management.
UNISDR was also pleased to learn that there were no critical findings from the OIOS
report and agreed with the useful recommendations provided, all of which are under
UNISDR’s purview to be implemented by October 2019. The entire OIOS audit exercise
was fully aligned with UNISDR goals of fostering a learning culture to continually enhance
organizational effectiveness, efficiency and performance67.

94

-----------------------Page 94 End-----------------------

A disaster response drill in Duy Hoa Commune, Quang Nam Province, Viet Nam supported by the Red Cross (USAID)

for programme planning and management.

Strengthening enterprise risk
management
As part of its 2018-2019 Results Framework,
UNISDR committed to craft an Enterprise Risk
Management Framework aligned to the current
UN standard.  During 2018, the Resource
Planning and Monitoring Section developed
a Risk Register following guidance from UN
headquarters and with full engagement of the
Senior Management Team. The Risk Register
includes risk definitions, an analysis of key risk
drivers, a description of the controls already
established by management, an evaluation of
their effectiveness and an outline of potential
risk response strategies.  Risks were classified
into tiers based on the qualitative evaluation of
risk exposures and control effectiveness as well
as contributing factors gathered during the risk
assessment process.  The Risk Register will be
reviewed and updated annually by the Senior
Management Team.

Enabler 2

In late 2018, UNISDR also began actively
contributing to preparations which inform
the design of Extension Two of Umoja (UE2)
through participation in consultations, training
and testing to ensure a smooth roll-out of the
extension in 2019. The new Strategic Planning,
Budgeting and Performance Management
(SPPM) solution of UE2 will add programme and
project planning and monitoring capabilities
to Umoja. Through SPPM, strategic plans
and results frameworks of different types
and durations can be created and linked to
one another hierarchically, if needed. This
will enable to more easily monitor and report
on the results, deliverables and indicators
of its Work Programme - provided that the
system is well adapted to extra-budgetary
programmes. As such, UNISDR continues to
engage actively in the roll-out process with the
intention of ensuring the effectiveness of UE2

95

-----------------------Page 95 End-----------------------

Enabler 2

Mr. Noriyuki Suzuki, who lost his daughter Mai in the tsunami that followed the magnitude 9 earthquake on March 11, 2011 in
Japan, shows SRSG Mizutori, a photo of the Okawa school clock. Okawa Elementary School lost 74 students and ten teachers.
(UNISDR).

96

Improving work programme
delivery

Human resources planning,
management and monitoring

Over the course of 2018, UNISDR updated and
operationalised a new Terms of Reference for its
Programme Management Oversight Committee
(PMOC). The focus of this Committee is to
ensure the alignment of funding proposals with
the Work Programme, review programming of
funding to ensure alignment with organizational
priorities and donor agreements as well as
monitor ongoing projects and the overall
implementation of the Work Programme. A
key change to the function of the Committee
is to have all proposals reviewed by the
Communications and Knowledge Management
Units to ensure alignment to relevant UNISDR
and United Nations information and technology
standards. In addition, the new weekly financial
monitoring reports are used to facilitate
and improve regular monitoring of project
implementation through the Committee.

A significant effort was made to achieve full
incumbency against core positions of the
organization, thereby ensuring that staff
capacity in all locations to deliver on its mandate
was secured. At the end of the year the vacancy
rate for core positions was 14 per cent, down
from 16 per cent at the end of 2017 and 30 per
cent at the end of 2016. The majority of the
positions under recruitment are expected to be
filled by the end of the first quarter of 2019.
For the 2017-2018 Performance Management
Cycle (covering the period April 2017- March
2018), UNISDR continued to work towards
enhanced people management by focusing on
strengthening performance management across
the Office. With the full engagement of senior
management, workshops were conducted in
every office in 2018, ensuring all staff members

-----------------------Page 96 End-----------------------

to encourage all staff to complete mandatory
United Nations learning programmes. At the
end of the year, the compliance rate reached
79 per cent and is steadily progressing towards
the 100% target. In addition, further training
was provided in the use of social media to
ensure staff can implement the most updated
communication tools. Finally, short, focused
in-house learning sessions on programme
planning, human resources management and
information technology solutions, have further
promoted a culture of continuous and cross

were clear about the performance expectations
of their supervisors, received regular feedback
and could contribute fully to the delivery of
the Office’s mandate. In light of these efforts,
UNISDR reached 99 per cent compliance
on performance management appraisals
in the period under review.
To further invest in its staff, a Staff
Development Strategy was developed for
2018-2019, defining the key learning priorities.
The objective is to foster an empowering and
supportive culture that encourages innovation
and creative thinking. The priority for 2018 was

functional learning.

UNISDR Offices and Presences
UNISDR headquarters is in Geneva, Switzerland. Regional Offices are based in Brussels,
Belgium, for Europe; Panama City, Panama, for the Americas; Cairo, Egypt, for Arab States;
Bangkok, Thailand, for Asia and Pacific; Nairobi, Kenya, for Africa. UNISDR also maintains
presences in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia; Bonn, Germany; Incheon, Republic of Korea; Kobe,
Japan; Suva, Fiji; and New York, United States of America.

REGIONAL OFFICE
BRUSSELS

Enabler 2

HEADQUARTERS
GENEVA

BONN

NEW YORK

INCHEON

KOBE

REGIONAL OFFICE
CAIRO
REGIONAL OFFICE
PANAMA CITY

REGIONAL OFFICE
BANGKOK

ADDIS ABABA
REGIONAL OFFICE
NAIROBI

SUVA

97

-----------------------Page 97 End-----------------------

“Disasters do not affect people equally. In many parts of the world
more women die in disasters than men as a consequence of
higher levels of poverty and other forms of discrimination. One of
the guiding principles of the Sendai Framework is that we need
to obtain disaggregated data by sex, age and disability for riskinformed decision-making which will lead to saving more lives.”
SRSG Mami Mizutori marking the International Women’s Day on 8 March 2018.

Mainstreaming gender
considerations

Enabler 2

Mainstreaming
gender
equality
and
women’s
empowerment
throughout
UNISDR’s work continues, underscoring the
important role gender plays in all disaster risk
reduction strategies, plans, policies, advocacy
campaigns and awareness-raising products.
In particular, UNISDR fostered recognition of
women’s contributions to disaster risk reduction
as part of their engagement in the design,
development, implementation and monitoring
of inclusive national and local disaster risk
reduction strategies. This work was guided
by UNISDR’s Strategy on Gender Equality and
Parity and Action Plan for the Prevention of
Sexual Exploitation and Abuse.
In light of efforts to mainstream gender,
specific discussions were held in all of the
five Regional Platforms in 2018 on women’s
empowerment and leadership in disaster risk
reduction and gender-sensitive and inclusive
approaches to disaster risk reduction. All of the
2018 Regional Platforms promoted General
Recommendation 37 of the Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination against Women (CEDAW)
on the gender-related dimensions of disaster
risk reduction in the context of climate change
when formulating national and local disaster

98

risk reduction strategies. In addition, all
outcome declarations contained references to
the need to address disaster risk reduction in
an inclusive all-of-society approach, and the
need for disaggregated disaster loss data.
UNISDR developed a set of guidelines
recommending gender mainstreaming
and parity in the panel as a core principle of
the organizational process of the Regional
Platforms, resulting in an overall increase
in women’s participation in substantive
discussions that passed from 32 per cent at
the 2015 World Conference on Disaster Risk
Reduction (WCDRR) to an average of 37 per
cent women participants across the 2018
Regional Platforms. Commitment and efforts
towards the organization of gender parity
panels also led to an improvement in the level
of women’s participation as speakers, passing
from 31 per cent at the 2015 WCDRR to a
35 per cent average across the five Regional
Platforms.
UNISDR continued to scale-up technical support
and advocacy efforts to support governments
in promoting women’s contributions to
disaster risk reduction governance and their
systematic engagement and involvement in
the development of inclusive national and
local disaster risk reduction strategies by
2020, as called for by the Sendai Framework

-----------------------Page 98 End-----------------------

target (e). UNISDR promoted a gender
perspective in disaster risk reduction
planning, disaggregation of data in collection
and reporting, in trainings and advice provided
to national Sendai Framework focal points as
well as with other stakeholders in disaster
risk reduction, sustainable development and
climate change. A Technical Forum including
disaggregation of disaster loss data by sex
was held in November 2018 in Bonn with the
participation of 40 Member States.
As International Gender Champion, the SRSG
has committed to work with partners and
women’s groups to facilitate the identification

of good practices on gender and disaster risk
reduction and their promotion at the 2018
Regional Platforms and the 2019 Global
Platform; to support panel parity; and to
further raise UNISDR’s internal awareness,
commitment and ownership of gender issues.
Internally, to further ensure that gender
considerations are mainstreamed across the
work of UNISDR, gender equality has been
integrated into all new project proposals and
grant development templates as core priority
area of work and is receiving targeted funding
for promoting women’s voices in disaster risk
reduction.

UNISDR Recognized for Gender Initiatives through UN-SWAP
UN-Women recognised UNISDR for the 2017 UN System-Wide Policy on Gender Equality
and the Empowerment of Women (UN-SWAP) reporting cycle as scoring best amongst UN
Secretariat entities for the 2017 reporting cycle. UN-SWAP focuses on six key elements:

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Enabler 2

Strengthening accountability for gender equality
Enhancing results-based management for gender equality
Establishing oversight through monitoring
Evaluation and reporting, allocating sufficient human and financial resources
Developing and/or strengthening staff capacity and competency in gender mainstreaming
•	 Ensuring coherence/coordination and knowledge/information management at the
global, regional and national levels.
UNISDR was commended in particular for strengthening accountability mechanisms for
gender equality and the empowerment of women through the adoption of UNISDR’s Strategy
on Gender Equality and Parity and the Action Plan to Prevent Sexual Exploitation
and Abuse in 2017; for enhancing gender-responsive strategic planning by including a
new deliverable on gender mainstreaming in the revised Strategic Framework 2016-2021;
for engaging systematically in inter-agency partnerships promoting gender equality and
women’s empowerment such as its global partnership programme on gender inequalities of
risk in cooperation with UN-Women and the IFRC which aims to promote gender-responsive
implementation of the Sendai Framework; and for integrating gender equality in monitoring
and reporting practices, such as its support to countries to disaggregate disaster loss data.

99

-----------------------Page 99 End-----------------------

FINANCIAL OVERVIEW
2018 Income Breakdown

59%

41%

Earmarked

Unearmarked

Work Programme
Expenditures Breakdown
9%
34%

16%

18%
23%
SO1

SO2

SO3

E1

E2

In 2018, UNISDR efforts to raise appropriate, sustainable and
predictable financial resources to deliver the UNISDR Work Programme
2016-2019 brought in US$40.8 million against a requirement of
US$43.1 million. As 15% of the funds received was for activities
continuing into 2019 overall only 80% of the funding requirement
for 2018 was received by year end. UNISDR was 99 per cent funded
through extra-budgetary resources from voluntary contributions,
with only one post currently funded from the UN Regular Budget,
despite a call from Secretary-General Guterres in his 2018 report
on Sendai Framework implementation (A/73/268) recommending in
paragraph 94(i) that:
States consider augmenting their financial contributions to
the United Nations trust fund for disaster reduction, as well
as regular budget support for the United Nations Office for
Disaster Risk Reduction, to support the efforts of Member
States to manage and reduce their disaster risk and implement
the Sendai Framework.
UNISDR strongly appreciated that the need to allocate additional
resources was agreed by Member States in the Second Committee
of the UN General Assembly (A/C.2/73/L.15/Rev.1) in paragraph 40
as follows:
Recognizes the continued importance of voluntary funding, and
urges existing and new donors to provide sufficient funding
and, where possible, to augment financial contributions to the
United Nations trust fund for disaster reduction to support
the implementation of the Sendai Framework, including
through unearmarked and, where possible, multi-annual
contributions.
UNISDR continued to reach out to new donors. This effort resulted
in engaging four new donors; two Member States, Cyprus68 and the
Czech Republic; as well as Enel Foundation and Willis.

Expenditures Breakdown
by Region
9%
9%

32%

11%

22%

Africa
Arab States

100

17%

Americas-Caribbean Europe
Asia-Pacific Headquarters (Geneva)

To improve resource mobilization efforts, UNISDR developed a
strategy that summarised its resource mobilization principles,
approaches, targets and internal division of labour necessary to
raise the funding required to support UNISDR to implement its
Work Programme. A detailed action plan that highlighted specific
opportunities to strengthen engagement with existing donors and
engage with potential new donors was also developed.
In light of its dependence on extra-budgetary funding, the flexible
nature of unearmarked (core) funding is particularly important to
UNISDR. Unearmarked contributions increased significantly in
2018 to US $16.7M or 41 per cent of the total funding received in
2018, up from US $6.4M or 23 per cent of the total income received
in 2017. This sharp increase was due to the Japanese Ministry of
Foreign Affairs providing unearmarked financial support as other
strategic partners to UNISDR.

-----------------------Page 100 End-----------------------

Unearmarked funding is critical, as it enables UNISDR to better focus on the strategic
result areas, affords smooth and effective operational delivery, significantly reduces
transaction costs related to contributions, and allows for forward planning, including the
ability to attract and retain high-quality human resources. To raise awareness about the
importance of unearmarked contributions, UNISDR drafted and began consultations with
donors on an unearmarked visibility strategy for implementation in 2019.
To increase predictability of funding, UNISDR continued to advocate with its donors for
multi-year contributions and over the period of 2018 received 28 payments through
multi-year agreements.
In-kind contributions were another important source of support to the work of UNISDR
in the delivery of its Work Programme in 2018. Notably the Governments of Armenia,
Colombia, Italy, Mongolia and Tunisia made significant in-kind contributions through
hosting Regional and Sub-Regional Platforms for Disaster Risk Reduction.
In addition, over the course of 2018, the Governments of Japan, Italy, Spain, Switzerland,
and the United States of America provided a total of six Junior Professional Officers
and the government of France provided a UN Volunteer. As disaster risk reduction sits
at the cross-roads of the development and humanitarian agendas, working with UNISDR
provides young professionals with exposure and opportunities to engage with the different
agendas and stakeholders which serves as a valuable professional foundation.

2018 Top Donors to UNISDR in Millions USD
Sweden

8.2M

Japan

7.2M

European Commission

6.8M

Germany

5.2M

Switzerland

2.8M

Republic of Korea

2.4M
1.9M

Australia
Norway

1.6M

USA

1.5M

Finland

1.2M

Ireland

0.6M

Luxembourg

Earmarked

Unearmarked

0.3M
0M

1M

2M

3M

4M

5M

6M

7M

8M

9M

101

-----------------------Page 101 End-----------------------

2018 Donors to UNISDR
1 January 2018 - 31 December 2018
GOVERNMENTS
Argentina1
Australia1
Cyprus1
Czech Republic
Finland
France
Germany1
Ireland
Japan2

US$ TOTAL
25,000
1,682,718
11,377
127,873
1,207,729
11,968
5,211,300
582,751
7,203,382

Kazakhstan1

100,000

Luxembourg

310,559

Norway

1,618,225

Republic of Korea1

2,399,980

Sweden

8,224,725

Switzerland2

2,782,543

USA1

1,512,653

SUB-TOTAL

33,012,782

OTHER INSTITUTIONS
ESCWA
European Commission3

16,667
6,819,187

Human Security Trust Fund1

335,215

World Bank4	

471,000

SUB-TOTAL

7,642,068

PRIVATE SECTOR AND FOUNDATIONS
Enel Foundation1

39,773

UPS Foundation1

60,000

Willis1

36,800

SUB-TOTAL
GRAND TOTAL
1

102

Earmarked contributions.

2

Combination of earmarked and un-earmarked contributions.

3

Earmarked contributions from two Directorate Generals (DEVCO and ECHO).

4

Two years of payments to cover costs associated with a staff member seconded to the CREWS Initiative.
Note: IPSAS compliant audited financial statements will be published on the website once available.

136,573

40,791,423

-----------------------Page 102 End-----------------------

2018 Annual Report- First Draft for Senior Management Review
Contents
Contents	1
Foreword	
1
Executive Summary	 3
Strategic Objective 1: Strengthen Global Monitoring, Analysis and Coordination of Sendai
Framework Implementation	 6
Strategic Objective 2: Support to Regional and National Sendai Framework Implementation	
Strategic Objective 3: Catalyse Action through Member States and Partners	 37
Enabler 1: Effective Knowledge Management, Communication and Global Advocacy	 53
Enabler 2: Strengthened Organizational Performance	 61
Financial Overview	
66

17

Foreword

Events of 2018 have underlined the importance of the Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction
to broader humanitarian and development agendas, including undergirding the success of the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, advancing the climate change agenda, reducing humanitarian
loss, and improving poverty reduction efforts.
In 2018, some 60 million people were affected by extreme weather events around the globe,
while earthquakes, tsunamis and volcanic activity took thousands of lives. Millions of people were
displaced, notably by floods, drought and storms.
These disaster events demonstrated once more the importance of setting and reaching targets
for: reducing mortality, the numbers of people affected, economic losses, and damage to critical
infrastructure.
It was an important moment therefore, when, in March, we launched the Sendai Framework Monitor.
This monitoring system provides the Member States, for the first time, with a universally available
tool to benchmark disaster losses against future progress in reducing those disaster losses. This is
done by tracking implementation of the Sendai Framework’s seven targets.
By the end of the year, 88 countries were actively using the Sendai Monitoring System and I am
looking forward to the findings from these first rounds of reporting being revealed and discussed at
the 2019 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction in Geneva.
As global interconnectivity grows, the world shrinks! Shocks, stresses and risks which may once have
been confined to a limited geographical area, are increasingly threatening all of us. It is just as vital,
therefore, that the world has a united and joined-up approach to reducing risk in all its forms. The
United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction sits at the heart of the United Nation’s combined
efforts to manage disaster risk. Our convening power was demonstrated throughout the year as
regional platforms for disaster risk reduction took place across the world in Africa, the Americas and
Caribbean, the Arab States, Asia-Pacific, and Europe.
I would like to offer my sincere thanks to the host countries, not only for the organization of these
events but for their participation at the highest political levels. President Juan Manuel Santos of
Colombia, host of the Americas and Caribbean regional platform, rightly pointed out “Working
together we will achieve more; we will be able to respond better.”
Opening the Asian Ministerial Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction, the Prime Minister of Mongolia,

103

-----------------------Page 103 End-----------------------

Endnotes
1	

2	

3	

4	

5	

6	

7	

8	

104

In early 2019, the Sendai Framework Monitor will
also allow regional inter-governmental organizations
to monitor and report progress of implementation in
their respective regions.
Technical Guidance Notes on the use of the Sendai
Framework Monitor: https://www.unisdr.org/we/
inform/publications/54970
Temporal considerations cover issues of different
timeframes for various type of hazards. This includes
small-scale sudden-onset disasters and large-scale,
slow-onset and long duration disasters which have
for example different characteristics of mortality
recording that would affect the report.
UNISDR worked closely with the SDGs Monitoring
Unit of the United Nations Statistical Division
in support of the Inter-Agency and Expert Group
on SDG Indicators and as a result, all the Sendai
Framework related indicators have been classified as
Tier I or Tier II in the SDG indicators.
By 31 March 2019 Member States should report on
targets (a)-(e) for 2018 as a critical input to the 2019
SDGs Report and 2019 HLPF. By 30 April 2019
Member States should report on all targets (a)-(g)
from 2005-2014 to develop a baseline for the SDGs
and the Sendai Framework. By 1 October 2019
Member States should report on all targets (a-g) for
2018.
UNISDR worked with the Osso Corporation, one of
the original supporting agencies behind DesInventar,
to provide hands-on training and guidance for the
application of DesInventar Sendai and the Sendai
Framework Monitor in Chile, Costa Rica and
Uruguay.
As of 31 December 2018, eight United Nations
Member States and one observer had entered data in
the Sendai Framework Monitor for at least one target/
indicator.
In the Asia-Pacific Region partners trained in the
use of the Sendai Framework Monitor include the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations(ASEAN),
the Pacific Community (SPC), Asia Disaster
Preparedness Centre (ADPC), South Asian
Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), and
Pacific Disability Forum (PDF). In addition, United
Nations organizations were also trained, including
the Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO),
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP),
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization (UNESCO), and United Nations

9	
10	

11	

12	

13	

14	
15	
16	

17	
18	
19	

20	

Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the
Pacific (UNESCAP), including the newly-established
Asian and Pacific Centre for the Development of
Disaster Information Management (APDIM).
UNISDR Call for Papers: https://www.preventionweb.
net/files/58255_callforpapersgar1918.05.2018final.pdf
Inter-comparison approaches allow an array of models
to be brought together to collectively improve quality,
coverage and consistency in modelled outputs. See
for example, Inter-Sectoral Impact Model Intercomparison Project which offers a framework for
consistently projecting the impacts of climate change
across affected sectors and spatial scales (https://www.
isimip.org/).
The Expert Group is convened by the SRSG and was
selected - following an open Call for Expression of
Interest - using the following criteria: 1) Technical and
operational relevance to the design and development
of the GRAF; 2) Updated and scientifically sound
experience and topic excellence, in 13 different
disciplines from risk/hazard modeling to risk
communication; 3) Global geographic representation
and experience; 4) Representation of major stakeholder
groups; and 5) Gender balance.
Key members of the editorial committee for the Arab
Regional Assessment Report are: FAO, IOM, UNWOMEN, ODI, ITU, Arab Water Council, Independent
consultants, UNESCWA, LAS and Arab Science &
Technology Group.
As of 31 December 2018, 1,049 participants had
registered for the Platform. Link to 2019 Global
Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction: https://www.
unisdr.org/conference/2019/globalplatform/home
Cartagena Declaration: http://eird.org/pr18/docs/
cartagena-declaration.pdf
Ulaanbaatar Declaration: https://www.preventionweb.
net/files/56219_ulaanbaatardeclarationfinal.pdf
Asia Regional Plan for Implementation of the Sendai
Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 20152030: https://www.preventionweb.net/files/56219_
actionplan20182020final.pdf
Statements and Voluntary Commitments: https://www.
unisdr.org/conference/2018/amcdrr/statements
More information on the 2018 ISDR-Asia Partnership
Forum: https://www.preventionweb.net/go/61009
Global Report on Internal Displacement 2018:
http://www.internal-displacement.org/global-report/
grid2018/
There was a joint special session focusing on disaster

-----------------------Page 104 End-----------------------

risk reduction in fragile and conflict contexts, a joint
high-level session on enhancing coherence among
disaster risk reduction, climate change and sustainable
development goals and six joint working sessions.
There were also two ministerial sessions per region and
two special sessions per region.
21	 Tunis Declaration on the implementation of the
African Regional Strategy for Disaster Risk Reduction:
https://www.preventionweb.net/files/57759_
finaladopteddrafttunisdeclaration13.pdf
22	 Declaration on the 4th Arab Conference for Disaster
Risk Reduction : https://www.preventionweb.net/
files/57759_finaldeclarationtunisarabic.pdf
23	 Voluntary Commitments: https://www.unisdr.org/
conference/2018/afrp-acdrr.
24	 Africa Media Awards: http://www.opportunitydesk.
org/2018/08/02/diraj-media-awards-2018/
25	 High-Level Communique of the Chair - Protecting
Europe’s Citizens: The Social Contract on
Disaster Resilience; and Rome Declaration of
Stakeholders: https://www.preventionweb.net/
files/62161_57664hlcommuniquefinalconverted.pdf
	
Rome Declaration of Stakeholders – Securing
Europe’s Prosperity – Reducing Risk of Disasters:
https://www.preventionweb.net/files/62147_
extromedeclarationstakeholders20111.pdf
26	 Yerevan Declaration: https://www.preventionweb.net/
files/57668_finalyerevandeclarationeng26.06.181.pdf
27	 CASC Sub-Regional Platform: https://www.unisdr.org/
conference/2018/casc
28	 Asian Ministerial Conference for DRR: https://www.
unisdr.org/conference/2018/amcdrr
29	 Loss Exceedance Curve of a Probabilistic Risk
Assessment shows the relation between a given loss
(usually economical) and the annual frequency of
occurrence of that loss or of a larger one.
30	 A United Nations Country Team (UNCT) encompasses
all the entities of the United Nations system that carry
out operational activities for development, emergency,
recovery and transition in a given country.
31	 Risk-informed programming entails effective
management of risk at every step of the UNDAF
process. Risk is viewed from a common UN systemwide perspective, rather than an organization-specific
one. Risk-informed development takes into account
“risks to” programming as well as “risks from”
programming. While assessing risks to programming,
the focus is on those that might impact or facilitate

32	

33	

34	

35	

36	

37	

38	
39	

40	

the achievement or facilitate the achievement of
development objectives.
The strategic goals of the Hyogo Framework for
Action were mainly input-oriented and aimed at
ensuring that disaster risk reduction was mainstreamed
into development policies and enhancing capacities
of national institutions. The goal of the Sendai
Framework focuses on impact, namely preventing
risk and avoiding the creation of new risk. In terms of
development and implementation of national strategies,
this represents and increase in the complexity of
measuring the impact and obtaining evidence of the
results.
ECOWAS and ECCAS countries that do not presently
have a disaster risk reduction strategy but have
expressed interest and requested support in developing
one include: Benin, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea,
Gabon, Republic of the Congo and São Tomé &
Príncipe.
Regional Strategy for Disaster Risk Management in the
Agriculture Sector and Food and Nutrition Security in
Latin America and the Caribbean (2018 - 2030): http://
www.fao.org/3/i8919en/I8919EN.pdf
20 pilot cities on the development of Local Disaster
Risk Reduction Plans and Strategies : six in Asia
Pacific, five in Americas and four in the Arab States.
The Quick Risk Estimation (QRE) produces a
dashboard-style risk assessment advising the risks
and hazards to human and physical assets, impacts
of identified main risks and associated perils on the
specified location and/or particular asset.
Link to Arab Region Synthesis Report 2018 “Making
Cities Sustainable and Resilient: Implementing the
Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction at the
local level”.
Strategic Approach to Capacity Development: https://
www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/58211
The six areas of need of the Strategic Approach
to Capacity Development are: 1) Developing and
Strengthening Disaster Risk Reduction Fundamentals;
2) Institutionalizing Disaster Risk Reduction Capacity;
3) Sharing and Using Risk Information Before and
After Disasters; 4) Establishing Collaborative Action
for Disaster Risk Reduction at the National and
Local Levels; 5) Strengthening External Support
Mechanisms; and 6) Advancing and Expanding
Disaster Risk Reduction Capabilities.
Together 2030 (SDG focused); CSO Task Force on
Financing for Development; Climate Action Network
(Paris Agreement); General Assembly of Partners (New

105

-----------------------Page 105 End-----------------------

Urban Agenda); IFRC (Agenda for Humanity):https://
sustainabledevelopment.un.org/majorgroups/
41	 The Group of Friends for Disaster Risk Reduction
in New York serves as an informal coordination
mechanism for Member States with a common interest
in the promotion of disaster risk reduction.
42	 Regional Roadmap for Implementing the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development in Asia and the
Pacific: https://www.unescap.org/sites/default/files/
publications/SDGs-Regional-Roadmap.pdf
43	 Mercosur, officially Southern Common Market is a
South American trade bloc comprised of Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.
44	HELP: http://www.wateranddisaster.org/
45	 Private sector study: Preparedness for enhanced
resilience after hurricanes Irma and Maria in Dominica
and the British Virgin Islands: https://www.unisdr.org/
we/inform/publications/60956
46	 Good private practices in DRR: https://www.
agendaforhumanity.org/sites/default/files/Final%20
September2017HPPPNewsletterIssue4_2.pdfl
47	HPPP: https://thepartneringinitiative.org/news-andviews/general-news/humanitarian-private-sectorpartnership-platform-hppp-launched-in-east-africa/
48	 Periperi U: Algeria, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Kenya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal,
South Africa, Tanzania and Uganda
49	 African STAG: https://www.preventionweb.net/
files/57759_finalstatementfromthescientificandt.pdf
50	 More information on the Asian Local Leaders Forum
for Disaster Resilience: https://www.unisdr.org/
archive/59163
51	 Civil Society Statement at the Africa-Arab
Regional Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction:
https://www.preventionweb.net/files/57759_
africaarabplatformcsostatementv1.pdf
52	 Information about draft European Union Budget 20212027: https://ec.europa.eu/commission/future-europe/
eu-budget-future_en
53	 Guidance Note on Recovery for the Health: https://
www.recoveryplatform.org/assets/Guidance_Notes/
HGN%20Supplementary%20Edition-20180119%20
(final).pdf
54	 Paragraph 48c of the Sendai Framework outlines
explicit roles of UNISDR to support implementation
of the Sendai Framework. Maintaining a stakeholders’
commitment registry is among these roles.
55	 Blog on the High Level Political Forum: https://
sustainabledevelopment.un.org/hlpf/2018/blog#16jan.
56	 Economic Losses, Poverty & Disasters 1998-2017:
https://www.unisdr.org/we/inform/publications/61119
57	 13 October 2018, UN Secretary General on the
occasion of International Disaster Day, retrieved
from https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/sg/

106

58	
59	

60	

61	

62	

63	

	

statement/2018-10-13/secretary-general’s-messageinternational-day-disaster-reduction
What if we knew the real costs of climate change :
http://news.trust.org/item/20181211100527-gau7o/
UNISDR produced video on the economic impacts
of disasters as they relate to the tourism sector
in the Caribbean: https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=HGVoHPSsq8w
5 November 2018, UN Secretary General on the
occasion of World Tsunami Day: http://www.un.org/en/
events/tsunamiday/messages.shtml
More information about the High School Students
Summit on World Tsunami Awareness Day 2018:
https://www.tsunami2018wakayama.telewaka.tv/en/
index.html https://www.unisdr.org/archive/61665
UNISDR created and launched a child-friendly booklet
“Get up to high ground”: https://www.unisdr.org/we/
inform/publications/61656
UNISDR also produced video to raise awareness about
how tsunamis disproportionately impact vulnerable
groups: https://youtube/NEG3badyEJc
https://www.youtube.com

watch?v=aGGLNlvg0EY#action=share
64	 CNBC Africa Special (video): UNISDR, Africa Arab
Platform assesses progress on Sendai Framework:
	
https://www.youtube.com/
watch?v=aGGLNlvg0EY#action=share
65	 Contingent upon United Nations General Assembly
approval in 2019, the Global Services Centre will be
the United Nations Secretariat-wide model of providing
administrative services through the various regional
economic commissions.
66 	 The most recent Office of Internal Oversight Services
(OIOS) audit of UNISDR was carried out in 2014.
67	 The full report is available at: https://oios.un.org/
page?slug=report).
68	 Note: Cyprus had previously been a donor to UNISDR,
but UNISDR had not received a contribution from
Cyprus since 2010.

-----------------------Page 106 End-----------------------

107

-----------------------Page 107 End-----------------------

108

-----------------------Page 108 End-----------------------

