ANNUAL REPO RT 2016

-----------------------Page 1 End-----------------------

-----------------------Page 2 End-----------------------

Contents
2 World Bank Group 2016 Summary Results
2 Message from the President of the World Bank Group and Chairman
of the Board of Executive Directors
8 Message from the Board of Executive Directors
11 Ending Extreme Poverty and Promoting Shared Prosperity in a
Sustainable Manner
23 The Regions
48 Advancing the Global Development Agenda with New Possibilities
for Engagement
51 Sustainably Managing the Bank’s Internal Operations
54 Ensuring Accountability and Improving Operations at the World Bank
56 The Roles and Resources of the World Bank
64 Committed to Results
KEY BOXES
15 From Billions to Trillions to Action
19 Economy, Efficiency, and Effectiveness: Ensuring Value from
WBG Operations
21 Meeting Diverse Client Demands with Reimbursable Advisory
Service
55 The World Bank Policy on Access to Information
KEY TABLES
53 World Bank Corporate Sustainability Impacts
62 IBRD Operational Summary and Lending by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 2012–16
63 IDA Operational Summary and Lending by Theme and Sector,
Fiscal 2012–16
This Annual Report, which covers the period from July 1, 2015, to June 30, 2016, has been
prepared by the Executive Directors of both the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—collectively
known as the World Bank—in accordance with the respective bylaws of the two
institutions. Dr. Jim Yong Kim, President of the World Bank Group and Chairman of the
Board of Executive Directors, has submitted this report, together with the accompanying
administrative budgets and audited financial statements, to the Board of Governors.
Annual Reports for the International Finance Corporation (IFC), the Multilateral Investment
Guarantee Agency (MIGA), and the International Centre for Settlement of Investment
Disputes (ICSID) are published separately.
Throughout the report, the term World Bank and the abbreviated Bank refer only to IBRD
and IDA; the term World Bank Group and the abbreviated Bank Group refer to the
collective work of IBRD, IDA, IFC, and MIGA. All dollar amounts used in this Annual Report
are current U.S. dollars unless otherwise specified. Funds allocated to multiregional
projects are accounted for at the country level in tables and text. As a result of rounding,
numbers in tables may not add to totals and percentages in figures may not add to 100.

-----------------------Page 3 End-----------------------

Addressing Critical Global Challenges
Russian Federation

Russian Fed.

Poland Belarus
Kazakhstan
Ukraine
Mongolia
Moldova
27
Romania
Georgia
Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
Bulgaria
4
Azerbaijan
Armenia
8
Turkmenistan Tajikistan
Turkey
Syrian
China
Islamic
Tunisia
Afghanistan
Lebanon A.R.
Rep.
West Bank and Gaza
Iraq of Iran
Bhutan
Pakistan
Jordan
Nepal
Arab
Libya
21
Rep. of

CLIMATE CHANGE
Morocco
Algeria

15
Mexico

14

PANDEMICS

Guatemala
El Salvador

20

POVERTY
In 2015 the planet temperature
was 0.9°C above the 20th century
average—nearly halfway to the
globally agreed-on 2°C threshold
for severe climate effects.

A pandemic is an outbreak that has crossed
borders and overwhelmed a health system—
a scenario far more likely in a poor country.

Haiti
Jamaica
Belize
Honduras

Cabo
Verde

Nicaragua

Costa Rica
Panama

R.B. de Guyana
9 Venezuela
Suriname
Colombia

Ecuador

5
Peru

Mauritania
Mali

Niger

Angola

Namibia

Uruguay

Chile

17

Refugees + internally displaced persons +
asylum seekers = >60 million people globally

18

With Innovative Financing and Solutions
Recognizing the immediate and long-term development
needs of forcibly displaced people, the WBG is working
with partners to develop responses that compliment humanitarian
assistance. For example, partnering with the United Nations and
the Islamic Development Bank, the WBG has launched a facility to
support Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan and
Lebanon; the facility can provide up to $800 million in concessional loans to scale up vital programs and services.

The World Bank Group helped launch the
Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF)
with the World Health Organization and other partners.
The PEF can release up to $500 million quickly to pandemic
responders in the poorest countries. It also provides incentives
to strengthen national health systems and prepare for future
outbreaks.

19

Zimbabwe

Madagascar

South
Africa

Palau
Kiribati

22
Indonesia

16

Timor-Leste

Papua
New
Guinea

13
Grenada

Trinidad
& Tobago

Kenya: As of 2015, 2.6 million individuals
are benefiting from cash transfer support
through the National Safety Net Program,
up from 1.7 million in 2013.

21 Pakistan: 7.7 million individuals across

Nicaragua: 458,557 people—more than
half were women—benefited from a
project to strengthen property rights
through improved land titling and
registry services from 2012 to 2015.
the country have received financing
from the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund, with 61 percent of the loans going
to women.

22 Papua New Guinea: 35 percent of

young people who graduated from an
on-the-job training program since 2011
received an offer of a paid job.
23 Philippines: By 2015, a total of 4.4

million poor households with children
were enrolled in a conditional cash
transfer program that provides incentives
for parents to invest in the health and
education of their children.

Kiribati
Tuvalu

Vanuatu

Fiji

Tonga

Poland

Croatia

Solomon
Islands

Samoa

28

Mauritius

4

20

Nepal: Over 400 micro-hydropower 
plants were built between 2007 and
2014, providing 150,000 rural households
with access to reliable and clean power.

Malaysia

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

6

Maldives

Lesotho

Indonesia: A National Community
Empowerment Program improved
access to microcredit, benefiting more
than 670,000 people with revolving
loan funds.

Mauritania: Government tax administration
capacity was strengthened, increasing the
tax revenue collected by 36 percent from
2011 to 2014.

Sri
Lanka

23

Philippines

Mozambique

Dominica

R. B. de Venezuela

16

One in 122 people in the world
are forcibly displaced.

Antigua
and
Barbuda

St. Lucia
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

Donor countries committed a total
of more than $7 billion for Ebola
response and recovery.

Cambodia

25

Swaziland

St. Kitts
and Nevis

Argentina

LIBERIA

Lao
29
P.D.R.
Thailand Vietnam

2

Zambia Malawi

Botswana
Dominican
Republic

1

Bangladesh
Myanmar

10

Brazil

Paraguay

SIERRA LEONE

Eritrea Rep. of
Yemen
Djibouti

Sudan

Senegal
30
Chad
The Gambia
Burkina
Guinea-Bissau
Faso
7
12
Guinea
Nigeria
Central South
Côte
Ethiopia
Sierra Leone
African Sudan
d’Ivoire
Somalia
Liberia
Cameroon Rep.
Ghana
17 26
24 Uganda
Togo
Rep. of
Kenya
Gabon
Benin
Congo Rwanda
Equatorial Guinea
Seychelles
Dem. Rep. Burundi
São Tomé and Príncipe
of Congo
Tanzania Comoros

Bolivia

FORCED DISPLACEMENT

The Climate Action Plan of the World Bank Group
(WBG) includes ambitious goals for 2020: 30+
gigawatts of renewable energy; early warning systems for
100+ million people; and climate-smart agriculture investment plans for 40+ countries. The WBG and partners are
working to put a price on carbon pollution: by 2020, 25%
of carbon emissions will have pricing mechanisms; and by
2030, the percentage with pricing mechanisms will double.

India

3

The human and economic costs of
the recent Ebola crisis =
11,300+ deaths
$2.8 billion (GDP losses)
GUINEA

19

11

Egypt

18

Bulgaria Romania Ukraine

could push
100 million people
into

Rep. of
Korea

Bosnia and Serbia
Herzegovina
Kosovo
Montenegro
Albania
FYR
Macedonia

24 Rwanda: Support to the development

of hillside horticulture and food crop
production created 33,000 jobs between
2010 and 2015.
25 Sri Lanka: School-based teacher

development programs have benefited
about 186,500 teachers since 2012.
26 Tanzania: 8 million rural Tanzanians

gained access to clean and safe water by
2015, a 75 percent increase from 2007.
27 Uzbekistan: From 2012 to 2015, 3,500

households in Bukhara and 11,000 in
Samarkand were connected to public
sewer systems.
28 Vanuatu: 521 homes obtained access

to grid-based electricity between
September 2014 and December 2015.

IBRD 40125R2
AUGUST 2016

29 Vietnam: Between 2008 and 2014,

more than 93,400 farmers were trained
in sustainable farming techniques
and new technologies, which when
applied, helped the farmers to realize
an average of 22 percent increase in
the value of sales.
30 Republic of Yemen: From 2012 to 2015,

101,042 people accessed improved
primary health care services; 121,193
people had access to improved water
sources; and 41,039 people had access
to improved sanitation facilities.

-----------------------Page 4 End-----------------------

The World Bank Annual Report 2016
Ending extreme poverty by 2030 and boosting shared prosperity in a sustainable
manner are the driving missions for the World Bank Group. While the goals are
simple to grasp, the efforts it will take to meet them are not. Just as there are
many interconnected and overlapping causes behind extreme poverty, the solutions required are just as complex and unique to each country’s individual circumstances. The fundamentals, however, remain true: countries must grow their
economies inclusively, so that everyone benefits; they must invest in their people;
and they must ensure that those who have left poverty do not fall back into it.
Yet, the world today is much different than it was even just a few years ago. The
global community is facing challenges that are diverse in nature—economic,
humanitarian, environmental—but that share key features. First, they threaten the
hard-won development gains of recent decades; and second, they will not be contained within any one country’s borders. Millions of people have been forcibly displaced by conflict and live in ever-more fragile areas; the risks of pandemics can
devastate the health of individuals, but also undermine countries’ economies; and
the threats of climate change are becoming ever more apparent.
Everyone will be affected. Yet the poorest and most vulnerable will be affected
most. To address these challenges, the World Bank Group is working to become
a more agile partner in addressing the world’s most pressing problems. It aims to
leverage and apply its unique capabilities to provide the innovative financing and
creative solutions that support countries in dealing with these challenges at the
local, regional, and global levels. As the world works to confront these challenges,
the World Bank Group will continue to play an essential role in supporting global
development and working to safeguard the progress toward the 2030 sustainable
development agenda.
This Annual Report focuses on how two of the World Bank Group’s institutions—
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA)—are partnering with countries to end
extreme poverty by 2030, promote shared prosperity, and support the global sustainable development agenda.

The following websites and additional links throughout the report are provided for
further information:
• Annual Report 2016: worldbank.org/annualreport
• Corporate Scorecard: worldbank.org/corporatescorecard
• World Bank Results: worldbank.org/results
• World Bank Open Data: data.worldbank.org
• Corporate Responsibility: worldbank.org/corporateresponsibility
• Access to Information: worldbank.org/en/access-to-information

-----------------------Page 5 End-----------------------

WORLD BANK GROUP 2016 SUMMARY RESULTS
Message from the President of the World Bank Group and
Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

In recent years, historic progress has been made to
end extreme poverty around the globe. More than
1 billion people lifted themselves out of poverty in
the past 15 years alone. In 2015, for the first time
ever, the World Bank Group forecast that the global
percentage of people living in extreme poverty fell
under 10 percent. This is a remarkable milestone.
Yet the world today faces challenges that are as complex and vexing as at any
time in recent memory. Strong economic headwinds have slowed global
growth; fragility and conflict have displaced tens of millions of people from
their homes; countries and their economies are vulnerable to natural disasters
and climate change–related shocks; and a pandemic can spread quickly without
warning. We are all affected by these challenges, but the stark truth is that
people living in extreme poverty are hit first and hardest.
Our mission at the World Bank Group is defined by two goals—to end
extreme poverty by 2030 and to boost prosperity among the poorest 40
percent in low- and middle-income countries. To achieve them, we are focusing
on broad-based, inclusive growth, and we remain vigilant against shocks that
can reverse hard-won gains in development.
We know that business as usual won’t be enough. The World Bank Group is
collaborating in new ways with an increasingly diverse array of partners. For
example, we partnered with the United Nations and the Islamic Development
Bank Group last year to launch an innovative financing facility in support of
Syrian refugees and host communities in Jordan and Lebanon. Based on the
initial contributions provided by eight nations and the European Commission,
the facility will be able to immediately generate up to $800 million in concessional loans for Jordan and Lebanon. This will allow the scaling up of programs
to expand vital services, such as health and education, to meet the combined
demand from refugees and citizens.
This is one of the many groundbreaking solutions we are implementing to
address today’s global challenges. The talented and dedicated staff of our main
financing institutions—the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), the International Development Association (IDA), the International
Finance Corporation (IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
(MIGA)—work together to mobilize the innovative solutions and investments
necessary to support inclusive economic growth.

-----------------------Page 6 End-----------------------

This year the World Bank Group committed nearly $64.2 billion in loans,
grants, equity investments, and guarantees to its members and private businesses. Client demand for IBRD’s services continues to be strong, and this
year it made commitments totaling $29.7 billion—the highest amount ever
outside of a financial crisis. And IDA, the World Bank’s fund for the poorest,
committed $16.2 billion to support countries most in need to face their
toughest challenges.
Working with the private sector will become increasingly important to meet
the scale of financing needs for our development goals. IFC and MIGA, our two
institutions focused on private sector development, are strengthening their
efforts in this regard. IFC delivered a record amount of financing for private
sector development—about $18.8 billion, including $7.7 billion mobilized from
investment partners. IFC’s investments in fragile and conflict-affected areas
climbed to nearly $1 billion, an increase of more than 50 percent over the
previous year. MIGA issued a record $4.3 billion in political risk and credit
enhancement guarantees underpinning various investments, with 45 percent of
its active portfolio in IDA-eligible countries and 10 percent in countries affected
by conflict and fragility.
The progress we’ve made in recent decades shows that we are the first
generation in human history that can end extreme poverty. This is our great
challenge, and our great opportunity. With the collective determination of the
World Bank Group, our member countries, and global partners, I remain
optimistic that we can tackle these challenges—one region, one country, and
one person at a time—and create a more prosperous and inclusive world for all.

DR. JIM YONG KIM
President of the World Bank Group
and Chairman of the Board of Executive Directors

	

2016 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

3

-----------------------Page 7 End-----------------------

Global Commitments
The World Bank Group maintained strong support for developing countries over the past
year as the organization focused on delivering results more quickly, increasing its relevance for
clients and partners, and bringing global solutions to local challenges.

LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

$11.4
BILLION

$64.2
BILLION

in loans, grants, equity investments,
and guarantees to partner countries
and private businesses.
Total includes multiregional and global
projects. Regional breakdowns reflect
World Bank country classifications.

-----------------------Page 8 End-----------------------

EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

$10.3
BILLION

EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

$11.4
BILLION

$6.3

BILLION
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

$11.3
BILLION
SOUTH ASIA

$13.3
BILLION

SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA

	

2016 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

5

-----------------------Page 9 End-----------------------

World Bank Group Financing
for Partner Countries
BY FISCAL YEAR, MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
	
2012	2013	2014	2015	2016
WORLD BANK GROUP					
Commitmentsa	

51,221	50,232	 58,190	 59,776	 64,185

Disbursements 	

42,390	40,570	44,398	44,582	 49,039

b

IBRD					
Commitments	

20,582	15,249	18,604	23,528	29,729

Disbursements	

19,777	16,030	 18,761	 19,012	22,532

IDA					
Commitments	

14,753	16,298	22,239	18,966	 16,171

Disbursements	

11,061	11,228	13,432	12,905	 13,191

IFC					
Commitmentsc	

9,241	11,008	 9,967	10,539	 11,117

Disbursements 	

7,981	 9,971	8,904	9,264	9,953

d

MIGA					
Gross issuance	

2,657	

Recipient-Executed Trust Funds	

2,781	

3,155	

2,828	

4,258

				

Commitments	

3,988	4,897	4,225	 3,914	 2,910

Disbursements	

3,571	3,341	3,301	3,401	3,363

a. Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) commitments, and MIGA gross
issuance.
RETF commitments include all recipient-executed grants, and therefore total WBG commitments
differ from the amounts reported in the WBG Corporate Scorecard, which includes only a subset of
trust-funded activities.	
b. Includes IBRD, IDA, IFC, and RETF disbursements.
c. Long-term commitments for IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds
mobilized from other investors.
d. For IFC’s own account. Does not include short-term finance or funds mobilized from other
investors.

-----------------------Page 10 End-----------------------

The Institutions of the World Bank Group
The World Bank Group is one of the world’s largest sources of funding and knowledge for
developing countries, consisting of five institutions with a common commitment to
reducing poverty, increasing shared prosperity, and promoting sustainable development.

International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
Lends to governments of middle-income and creditworthy low-income countries

International Development Association (IDA)
Provides interest-free loans, or credits, and grants to governments of the poorest countries

International Finance Corporation (IFC)
Provides loans, equity, and advisory services to stimulate private sector investment in
developing countries

Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA)
Provides political risk insurance and credit enhancement to investors and lenders to facilitate
foreign direct investment in emerging economies

International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID)
Provides international facilities for conciliation and arbitration of investment disputes

	

2016 SUMMARY RESULTS 	

7

-----------------------Page 11 End-----------------------

Message from the
Board of Executive Directors

T

he 25 resident Executive Directors, representing the World Bank’s 189 member countries, are responsible for the conduct of the general operations
of the World Bank under delegated powers from the Board of Governors.
The World Bank comprises both the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). The
Executive Directors select a President, who serves as Chair of the Board. The current
Board term is from November 2014 to October 2016.
Executive Directors fulfill an important role in guiding the general operations and
strategic direction of the entire World Bank Group (WBG), and they represent member countries’ viewpoints on the Bank’s role. They consider and decide on proposals
made by the President for IBRD and IDA loans, credits, grants, and guarantees; new
policies; the administrative budget; and other operational and financial matters.
They also discuss Country Partnership Frameworks—the central tool by which management and the Board review and guide the Bank Group’s engagement with client
countries and support for development programs. Moreover, Executive Directors are
responsible for presenting to the Board of Governors an audit of accounts, an
administrative budget, and the World Bank’s Annual Report on fiscal year results.
The Board has five standing committees, namely, the Audit Committee, the Budget Committee, the Committee on Development Effectiveness, the Committee on
Governance and Administrative Matters, and the Human Resources Committee.
Executive Directors serve on one or more of these committees, which help the Board
to discharge its oversight responsibilities through in-depth examinations of policies
and practices. The Executive Directors’ Steering Committee meets bimonthly to discuss the Board’s strategic work program.
Directors periodically travel to member countries to gain firsthand knowledge
about a country’s economic and social challenges, visit project activities financed by
IBRD and IDA, and discuss with government officials their assessment of the collaboration with the Bank Group. In fiscal 2016, Directors visited Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of Congo, India, Indonesia, Mauritania, the Philippines, Senegal, Sri
Lanka, and Vietnam. They also visited Syrian refugees and hosting communities in
Jordan and Lebanon.

8	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 12 End-----------------------

Back row (left to right): Mohamed Sikieh Kayad, Djibouti; Heenam Choi, Korea, Rep.; Louis Rene
Peter Larose, Seychelles; Antonio Silveira, Brazil; Subhash Chandra Garg, India; Masahiro Kan, Japan;
Matthew McGuire, United States; Andrei Lushin, Russian Federation.
Middle row (left to right): Jose Alejandro Rojas Ramirez, Venezuela, RB; Satu Santala, Finland;
Jiandi Ye, China (Alternate); Rionald Silaban, Indonesia; Ursula Müller, Germany; Melanie Robinson,
United Kingdom; Khalid Alkhudairy, Saudi Arabia; Alex Foxley, Chile; Franciscus Godts, Belgium.
Front row (left to right): Patrizio Pagano, Italy; Ana Afonso Dias Lourenco, Angola; Alister Smith,
Canada; Merza Hasan, Kuwait (Dean); Nasir Mahmood Khosa, Pakistan; Jörg Frieden, Switzerland;
Frank Heemskerk, The Netherlands; Hervé de Villeroché, France.

The Board, through its committees, regularly engages on the effectiveness of the
activities of IBRD and IDA with the independent Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, which report directly to the Board.

Board achievements of fiscal 2016
Highlights from the committees include the Audit Committee’s work on various
proposals to strengthen the financial capacity of IBRD, IDA, and MIGA, and to manage financial and other risks for the World Bank Group. The Budget Committee
provided support to the successful implementation of the budgeting (”W”) process
and the Bank Group’s expenditure review, as well as guidance on the financial sustainability of the institution. The Committee on Development Effectiveness focused
on matters pertaining to the Bank Group’s strategic direction and the quality and
results of Bank-supported operations, including the modernization of the World
Bank’s Environmental and Social Framework, external reviews of the Independent
Evaluation Group, the WBG Forest Action Plan, and the Development Policy Financing Retrospective exercise. The discussions of the Committee on Governance and
Administrative Matters focused on the development of a dynamic formula for IBRD
shareholding, as part of implementing the 2015 Shareholding Review. The Human
Resources Committee considered various activities related to the Bank Group’s
human resources strategy, including career development, financial assistance, contract architecture, the short-term workforce, strategic staffing, and diversity and
inclusion.
The focus of the Board is to help the Bank achieve the objectives of ending
extreme poverty and promoting shared prosperity in a sustainable manner. During
fiscal 2016, this was done in part by engaging with management to build a mediumto long-term view of the role of the World Bank Group in a changing global
­development landscape, as requested by the Board of Governors in the 2015 Share-

	

MESSAGE FROM THE BOARD 	

9

-----------------------Page 13 End-----------------------

holding Review. Board support also builds upon engagement with partners in the
World Humanitarian Summit, the 21st Conference of the Parties (COP 21) to the
United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the United
Nations Sustainable Development Summit 2015, Financing for Development, the
IDA Replenishment process, and the Sustainable Development Goals. The discussions have considered both how the Bank has evolved and what further changes it
can make to ensure that it remains a premier global development institution, and
ways to strengthen its financial position. Discussions will conclude by the 2016
Annual Meetings.
The Board uses several approaches to oversee and guide management on
achieving the Bank’s objectives. In fiscal 2016, the Board discussed topics impor­
tant to the Bank’s operations, including forced displacement; the implications of
low oil prices for the global economy; development data gaps; managing the
energy transition to meet growth, poverty, and climate objectives; mainstreaming
disaster risk management; development goals in an era of demographic change;
global housing; development impact through tourism; financial inclusion; stateowned enterprises; illicit financial flows; and public debt vulnerabilities in low-­
income countries; among others. It also deliberated on important internal activities,
such as the future of the World Bank Group (in both the medium and the long
term); corporate scorecards; IDA support; nonconcessional borrowing; implementation of the new procurement framework; WBG financial sustainability; the Middle
East and North Africa regional strategy; strategic priorities for fragility, conflict, and
violence; the Climate Action Plan; and the WBG Gender Strategy. The Board considered the results and operational implications of the World Development Report
2016: Digital ­Dividends and looks forward to the 2017 report on Governance and
the Law.
Furthermore, the Executive Directors approved several crisis or emergency
responses for a wide range of clients, including Ecuador, Iraq, Mozambique, Myanmar, Pakistan, and Sierra Leone. They also approved the Pandemic Emergency
Financing Facility as a concrete action in response to the Ebola outbreak in West
Africa. The Board welcomed the Independent Evaluation Group’s Results and Performance of the World Bank Group 2015 report, as well as the Inspection Panel’s
reports concerning Kenya, Kosovo, Mongolia, Nepal, and Uganda. The Board also
welcomed Iraq to the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes
(ICSID), the Republic of Nauru to IBRD and ICSID, and congratulated the Republic of
Korea for graduating from IBRD.
Overall, the Board approved approximately $45.9 billion in financial assistance in
fiscal 2016, comprising about $29.7 billion in IBRD lending and about $16.2 billion
in IDA support. The Directors also reviewed 75 country engagement products. The
Board approved an administrative budget for the World Bank of $2.5 billion for fiscal
2017.

10	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 14 End-----------------------

Ending Extreme Poverty and
Promoting Shared Prosperity
in a Sustainable Manner

T

he work of the World Bank is anchored in its goals: to end extreme
poverty—reducing the share of the global population living in extreme
poverty to 3 percent by the year 2030—and to promote shared
prosperity—increasing the income of the bottom 40 percent of the
population. Both of these goals must be met in a sustainable manner.
World Bank projections suggest that for the first time in history, the number of

people living in extreme poverty has fallen below 10 percent of the global population. Despite this good news, hundreds of millions of people still live on less than
$1.90 a day, the current benchmark for extreme poverty. The work is far from over,
and a number of challenges remain if the comprehensive vision for global development—as articulated by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development, and the World Bank’s own goals—is to be met.
The economic growth that drives reductions in extreme poverty continues to
disappoint, and substantial downside risks to the global economy remain, such as
weak demand, tighter financial markets, softening trade, persistently low prices for
oil and other commodities, and volatile capital flows. The world also faces complex
and critical threats to long-term prosperity, including regional conflicts and localized
fragility that have forcibly displaced millions of people; pandemics and other health
risks across regions; and the effects of climate change, which may bring extreme
weather shocks and disruptions to food security in many countries. All of these risks
will most affect the poor and vulnerable.
At the same time, global development trends have changed dramatically. The
world is much more prosperous, and its center of economic gravity is shifting

Children at a school in the Lao People’s Democratic Republic enjoy clean water to
wash in before lunch. Investing in young children is one of the smartest investments
a country can make. (© Bart Verweij/World Bank)

-----------------------Page 15 End-----------------------

World Bank support to micro and small businesses in the Arab Republic of Egypt, like
this sewing factory in the city of Luxor, helped to provide 70,000 jobs, many to youth
and women. (© Dominic Chavez/World Bank)

toward emerging economies. Private investment now dominates capital transfers
worldwide, and domestic resource mobilization is increasingly important relative to
official development assistance, particularly in middle-income countries. The world
is much more interconnected, and the economic, social, and environmental dimensions of development will require much more integrated, multisectoral approaches
to succeed.
The World Bank is uniquely suited to support the global development agenda in
the face of these unprecedented challenges and changes to the global environment.
The Bank remains a committed partner to help countries over the long term, and
works to develop strategies, operations, and innovative financing that are tailored to
each country’s unique needs. The institution is organized to work across the entire
development spectrum—at the country, regional, and global levels—to facilitate
coordinated action for solutions that support poverty reduction and promote inclusive prosperity.
This chapter describes how the World Bank worked with its partners this fiscal
year across intersecting and complex sectors to help countries find solutions to their
toughest development challenges.

Promoting inclusive and equitable economic growth
Equitable policies and institutions help every country’s poorest people to benefit
from economic growth. The World Bank supports policy makers to reach wellinformed, ­evidence-based decisions that promote equity and inclusion, sustainable
macro­economics, public sector transparency and efficiency, productivity, and financial sector deepening and stability—all foundational elements for reducing poverty
and promoting inclusive growth.
Access to economic opportunities and high-quality basic services is fundamental
to eliminating extreme poverty and building shared prosperity. Through a combination of strong analysis and advice, financial services, lending, and convening power,
the Bank helps clients to address challenges to equity and inclusion. This support
can help clients to strengthen their evidence base for making informed policy decisions, and can target inter­ventions that are equitable, efficient, and reach the poor.
For example, a grant from the Inter­national Development Association (IDA) support12	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 16 End-----------------------

ing the Regional Program to Har­monize and Modernize Living Conditions Surveys is
helping the eight member countries of the West African Economic and Monetary
Union to improve the quality and frequency of the data they collect. In Chile, a Bank
operation supports reforms that focus on improving access to and the quality of
education, as well as enhancing the measuring of poverty and targeting of social
programs.
Sustainable macroeconomic and fiscal policies create a supportive enabling environment for private sector–led growth, and they provide the basis for effective
development planning and public spending. The Bank helps clients to gauge the
right mix of fiscal management, debt policies, and growth. For example, the Mexico
Public Expenditure Review (PER) identified a menu of efficiency options to inform
the short- and medium-term fiscal consolidation efforts of the Mexican government. Like PERs conducted for other countries, the Mexico initiative will help to
sustain a continuing policy dialogue to strengthen fiscal management and overall
public sector effectiveness.
More efficient public resource mobilization and spending allows governments to
improve service delivery. The Bank assists clients in improving public sector efficiency, such as the prioritization of spending, better budget management and control, and the elimination of constraints on the efficient use of domestic resources.
These efforts include helping client countries to build fair and efficient tax systems
and increase revenues to government treasuries. This year the Bank launched a
Global Tax Team to bolster cutting-edge work on taxes, liaise with other global
­institutions, and build a more coordinated dialogue on international tax issues. In
addition, the recently launched Platform for Cooperation on Tax will formalize collaboration between the Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF), Organisation for
Economic Co-operaton and Development (OECD), and United Nations (UN), and
aims to boost the ability of developing countries to build stronger tax systems and
ensure that their interests are heard.
Integrated economies help to promote sustained economic growth with strong
contributions from the private sector, which help to raise the incomes of the poor
and create more and better-paying jobs. The Bank, in collaboration with the International Finance Corporation (IFC) helps to promote open and competitive markets
and foster an enabling environment for private investment. Among recent efforts,
the Bank provided programmatic advice on productivity-led growth in Brazil, a
competition assessment in Kenya, and a policy analysis of the implications of the
Trans-Pacific Partnership for Vietnam. In addition, Bank financing is supporting the
development of export-oriented sectors in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia through broad-investment climate reforms and incentives for investment and
manufacturing upgrades. Multicountry operations include the Burkina Faso and
Côte d’Ivoire Regional Trade Facilitation and Competitiveness Credit, which aims to
reduce transaction costs between these countries by reforming the transport and
customs sectors. The Bank’s convening services have also facilitated the development of a new investment law in Myanmar.
Inclusive, efficient, and stable financial systems contribute to faster growth and
poverty reduction. Removing impediments—such as financing gaps for firms, the
poor, infrastructure, and housing—is a critical part of the Bank’s work. For example, the Bank serves as a technical partner to help countries shape their National
Financial Inclusion Strategies by coordinating stakeholders’ efforts and prioritizing
resources, as in Pakistan, where the Bank and IFC have been working with the State
Bank of Pakistan. The Bank is also actively working with countries to strengthen
transparency and accountability and to reduce illicit financial flows, as part of a
global effort. It is working to improve access to information on the beneficial owners
	

2016 OVERVIEW 	

13

-----------------------Page 17 End-----------------------

Bus rapid transit—like the World Bank–supported TransMilenio system in Bogotà,
Colombia—is a relatively fast, efficient, and climate-friendly way to move commuters
through increasingly congested cities. (© Dominic Chavez/World Bank)

of assets for public authorities, to strengthen the exchange of tax information, and
to help governments detect money laundering. These efforts also aim to ensure that
clean public officials and businesses are recognized, while corrupt and criminal ones
are sanctioned.
The Bank also partners with member countries to strengthen key financial institutions to support financial stability and economic growth. Through the Reserves
Advisory and Management Program (RAMP), the Bank is working with over 60
member institutions—central banks, national pension funds, and sovereign wealth
funds—to improve the management of foreign reserves and other financial assets.
A stable and liquid foreign reserves portfolio is critical to a central bank’s financial
soundness. The Bank works with member governments at the national and subnational levels to build capacity to develop and implement debt management strategies according to best practice. Effective public debt management is a cornerstone
of financial stability and sustainable fiscal policy.

Improving infrastructure quality through
public-private partnerships
The World Bank aims to help governments make informed decisions about improving access to and the quality of infrastructure services, which can include, where
appropriate, using public-private partnerships (PPPs). This approach involves
strengthening data collection, building capacity, developing and testing tools, promoting disclosure, and encouraging engagement with all relevant stakeholders.
During fiscal 2016, several tools were developed—often in collaboration with other
multilateral development banks or development partners—to support good decision
making by policy makers on infrastructure projects. These include an 80-country
survey on PPP procurement, a country diagnostic tool, a tool developed with the IMF
to assess the potential fiscal impact of PPPs, a prioritization tool, a ­disclosure framework for PPPs, an analysis of how gender can be incorporated into PPP contracts, and
a French-language version of a PPP Massive Open Online Course (MOOC).
In April 2016, the World Bank helped to organize with the other multilateral
development banks, and in partnership with the United Nations, the first Global
Infrastructure Forum. This was the first time that the heads of all of the multilateral
14	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 18 End-----------------------

From billions to trillions to action
The 2015 “From Billions to Trillions” (B2T) statement was presented by the World Bank Group
(WBG), International Monetary Fund (IMF), and regional multilateral development banks (MDBs)
at the Third International Conference on Financing for Development in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.
The statement pledged to leverage the billions of dollars in lending commitments through
the MDBs’ balance sheets in order to mobilize and catalyze trillions more in public and private
sector dollars. Since then, B2T has become the backbone of discussions on financing for development (FFD) in most international forums. Shareholders expect the Bank Group to deliver on
this pledge, and to take the lead in establishing and scaling up new approaches and financing
solutions to mobilize additional resources in support of the goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Throughout fiscal 2016, the Bank Group has remained closely engaged with the FFD agenda
as a core member of the United Nations Interagency Task Force on Financing for Development,
which is responsible for the follow-up and review progress on commitments made in Addis.
Additionally, two important initiatives were launched in support of FFD: The joint World Bank–
IMF tax initiative, to build in-country domestic resource mobilization capacity, and the MDB
Global Infrastructure Facility focused on expanding the universe of infrastructure projects that
have the potential to mobilize private investment. The Bank Group is also actively engaged
with the private sector in exploring public-private alignment opportunities by organizing an
annual Development Finance Forum. Moving forward, a suite of indicators to measure and
evaluate mobilization efforts across WBG programs is being developed for fiscal 2017 to
create incentives to increase our mobilizing and catalyzing ability at every level of our client
and partner engagement.

banks came together to discuss infrastructure, reflecting the topic’s importance and
the commitment to multilateral collaboration. Other key participants included development partners and representatives of the Group of Twenty (G-20), Group of
Twenty-Four (G-24), and Group of Seventy-Seven (G-77); the OECD; and the Global
Infrastructure Hub. The meeting set out actions that the participants will take over
the next year to leverage more—and better—public and private investment in infrastructure. The next Global Infrastructure Forum will be held in 2017.
This year the Global Infrastructure Facility approved its first project (hydropower
in the Solomon Islands) and four planning grants in Brazil, Côte d’Ivoire, the Arab
Republic of Egypt, and Georgia. Support by the Public-Private Infrastructure Advisory
Facility to building capacity and knowledge increased by over 60 percent during the
year, with a strong focus on Sub-Saharan Africa and the poorest countries.

Ensuring sustainability in key drivers of development
Together, the adoption of the SDGs in September 2015 and the signing of the Paris
Agreement on climate change in April 2016 mark a clear recognition by the international community that economic growth, poverty reduction, and environmental sustainability are inextricably linked and essential for achieving sustainable development.
With 78 percent of the world’s poor people living in rural areas and most depending on agriculture for their livelihoods, increasing farm productivity and resilience,
strengthening farmers’ links to markets, and providing affordable food are proven
ways to end poverty and boost shared prosperity. The Bank’s agriculture program is
focusing on these areas, giving more attention to climate-smart agriculture, improving nutrition, strengthening agricultural value chains, and creating jobs. For example,
support in Senegal is facilitating the adoption of 14 new, high-yielding, drought	

2016 OVERVIEW 	

15

-----------------------Page 19 End-----------------------

The West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program is helping 13 countries to build
sustainable food systems that create jobs for youth and produce nutritious food for
farmers to sell and people to eat. The project also supports improvements through
agricultural research, as at this center in Ghana. (© Dasan Bobo/World Bank)

tolerant varieties of grains. A project in Uganda supports the production of micro­
nutrient-rich crops that are adapted to local preferences and growing conditions, as
well as a seed bank for bio-fortified crops. In Nepal, a project supports labor-saving
technologies, such as improved solar dryers to preserve vegetables and fruits.
In the energy sector, the Bank’s work is aligned with Sustainable Energy for All,
an initiative that aims to achieve three goals by 2030: universal energy access,
doubling the rate of improvement in energy efficiency, and doubling the share of
renewable energy in the global energy mix. In Bangladesh, for example, a successful
solar home systems project has reached people in rural communities, with 3.5 million households now receiving electricity from their rooftops. With the fall in oil and
other commodity prices, many resource-rich countries have sought Bank assistance
in the extractives sector to help address price volatility, diversify their economies,
strengthen sector governance, increase benefit sharing, and ensure environmental
and social sustainability.
The World Bank also helps countries to factor in to their development plans the
value and job-creating potential of natural resources—from ocean wealth to forests
and watersheds—along with the associated costs of environmental degradation,
pollution, and resource scarcity. In Morocco, for example, a green growth development policy operation supports measures to improve the sustainability of sectors
including fisheries, agriculture, and tourism—all of which are critical sources of
employment in poor, rural communities and significantly affected by the depletion
of natural resources. In agriculture, for instance, the program supports better
groundwater management practices, soil conservation, and more-effective meteorological information for farmers. In fiscal 2016, the Bank launched a five-year Forest
Action Plan for the World Bank Group aimed at making the sustainable management
of forests an integral part of development and climate action. The plan introduces
the concept of “forest-smart” interventions, and takes a holistic look at forest landscapes to avoid the erosion of forest capital.
Transportation and information and communication technologies connect people to jobs, markets, and social services, and are at the core of global discussions on
the SDGs, climate change, and road safety. Yet accessibility, efficiency, and safety
remain critical challenges to realizing the full potential of sustainable mobility. Today
16	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 20 End-----------------------

1 billion people, for example, still lack access to an all-weather road, and 3 billion, to
the Internet. Efforts to build safer, cleaner, and more-efficient transportation systems
include expanding bus ridership by 40 percent in Wuhan, China, and improving road
safety in India. Technology and data management are also helping to better map
travel patterns and users’ needs, engage citizens, and improve the quality of mass
transit systems. Expanding access to broadband service is also essential.
In developing countries—which account for 90 percent of urban growth—there
is a window of opportunity to build climate-smart cities. The Bank’s Urbanization
Reviews offer a framework for city leaders to make tough decisions on development
in their cities by providing diagnostic tools to identify policy distortions and analyze
investment priorities. Coordinated by the World Bank and supported by multilateral
development banks, UN organizations, think tanks, and various city networks, the
Global Platform for Sustainable Cities, launched this year, is a knowledge-sharing
program that provides access to cutting-edge tools and promotes an integrated
approach to sustainable urban planning and financing.
In the water sector, the Bank continues to pursue the vision of a Water-Secure
World for All, with a focus on advancing universal access to sanitation and water
security. Working across sectors, for example, the Bank’s new approach to rural sanitation in Egypt, Haiti, India, and Vietnam focuses on helping governments to leverage national programs for more local and accountable delivery, as well as behavior
change. Further, a new action plan, developed by the Lake Chad Basin Commission,
aims to empower Lake Chad communities to adapt to the urgent challenges exacerbated by climate change, and to consolidate Lake Chad’s contribution to regional
food security.
This work was supported by reports such as High and Dry: Water, Climate
Change, and the Economy, which projects potentially significant economic impacts
from changes to the water cycle. The report is a call for better policies, which recognize the fundamental importance of this resource, highlighting the fact that health,
energy, food, cities, and jobs depend heavily on water. The Bank, in partnership with
the United Nations, also launched a heads-of-state panel on water tasked with mobilizing action and financing toward the goal of ensuring access for all to sanitation
and water.

Helping countries to adapt to a changing climate
The World Bank Group has aggressively stepped up its climate action, given the
intrinsic link between climate change and poverty. The threat to poor people posed
by climate change is sharply illustrated in the publication Shock Waves: Managing
the Impacts of Climate Change on Poverty, released ahead of the 21st Conference
of Parties (COP 21) climate change talks in Paris. The report warns that without
rapid action, climate change could push more than 100 million people into poverty
by 2030.
In the wake of the Paris Agreement, the World Bank Group developed a Climate
Change Action Plan, marking a fundamental shift by integrating climate change as
a priority across all of the Bank’s strategies and operations. The plan lays out ambitious targets and accelerated actions to tackle climate change over the next five
years. Among the targets are assisting developing countries in adding 30 gigawatts
of renewable energy—enough to power 150 million homes—to the world’s energy
capacity, and bringing early-warning systems to 100 million people.
A key focus of the plan is to do more to help countries adapt to a changing climate: For example, by developing climate-smart agriculture investment plans for at
least 40 countries by 2020 and expanding the use of climate and disaster risk
	

2016 OVERVIEW 	

17

-----------------------Page 21 End-----------------------

Kazakhstan’s Technology Commercialization Project provided a grant to a group of
scientists who are developing human DNA test systems to treat heart disease in the
Central Asian region. (© Shynar Jetpissova/World Bank)

screening tools beyond projects funded by IDA. The Climate Change Action Plan
reinforces the pledge for a one-third increase in climate financing across the World
Bank Group, potentially to $29 billion each year, with the support of its members.

Promoting opportunity through investments in
human capital
No society can achieve its potential or meet the challenges of the 21st century without the full and equal participation of all its people—which requires investments in
human capital through education, health care, social protection, and jobs. The World
Bank works to support equal chances for people to live healthy, prosperous, and
longer lives; secure productive and inclusive jobs; and create opportunities and be
resilient in the face of economic, health, and climatic shocks, and other risks. All of
these conditions are necessary to break the intergenerational transmission of poverty and to take advantage of the demographic trends in many countries where
poverty is concentrated.
The overall goal of the Bank’s work in health, nutrition, and population is to
support developing countries in building strong and resilient health care systems;
achieving universal health care coverage; and ensuring that all people have access to
quality, essential health services and are not pushed into poverty because of health
care costs. Key areas of focus include ending preventable maternal and child mortality by 2030; ending childhood stunting caused by chronic malnutrition; halting the
spread of preventable communicable and noncommunicable diseases; and increasing outbreak preparedness.
This year, drawing from the lessons of the Ebola crisis in West Africa, the World
Bank Group partnered with the World Health Organization, the private sector, and
development partners to develop the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF),
launched during the 2016 Group of Seven (G-7) Ise-Shima Summit. The PEF will
enable a timely surge of money and support to the poorest countries to help stop
an outbreak from becoming another deadly and costly pandemic like Ebola. Through
the PEF, the World Bank will issue the first pandemic bonds and create a new market
for pandemic risk insurance.
18	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 22 End-----------------------

Economy, efficiency, and effectiveness: Ensuring value from WBG operations
In working to end extreme poverty and promote shared prosperity in a sustainable manner,
the World Bank Group seeks the greatest development impact from its available resources. In
other words, it is committed to achieving the highest “value for money” from its operations. In
recent years, it has made progress to this end on many fronts.
•	 Enhancing the economy of operations. The Bank Group has undertaken an expansive
Expenditure Review, through which it identified savings of $400 million in the internal
administrative budget. In addition, it has launched innovative, yet prudent, financial practices to optimize its balance sheets.
•	 Promoting greater efficiency. The Bank Group has likewise instituted significant organizational changes. These began in 2013 with an internal restructuring to ensure that WBG
expertise is able to address our clients’ pressing development challenges. Further, it has
introduced the “W” process, an annual strategic planning and budget exercise (see page
60). In addition, to improve its ability to be nimble and responsive to clients, the Bank Group
continues to simplify operational policies and procedures and to reform human resource
policies to manage talent.
•	 Ensuring development effectiveness. The Bank Group maintains a suite of tools at the
corporate, institutional, country, and project levels to monitor progress and risks to results
on the ground. For example, it recently instituted a risk management framework (Systematic
Operations Risk-Rating Tool [SORT]) for its portfolio of operations. The Bank Group continues to innovate its services to focus on results, including use of the Program-for-Results
financing instruments.
These examples are among the multiple initiatives under way or completed for the Bank Group
to learn from and improve its operations in order to have the most effective tools available for
meeting the needs of global development.

Through the Global Financing Facility (GFF) in support of Every Woman Every
Child—launched at the Third International Conference on Financing for Development, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in July 2015—the Bank is supporting country-led
efforts to improve the health of women, children, and adolescents. The GFF unites
resources from the countries themselves with those from international donors and
the private sector, and thus helps to scale up support for evidence-based interventions and ensure sustainable financing as the countries transition from low- to middle-income status. In its first year of operation, the GFF Trust Fund supported a
dozen countries representing nearly half of the worldwide financing gap for universal women’s, children’s, and adolescent health care.
The Bank is also scaling up investments in the early years of life—across nutrition,
early stimulation, and safe environments—with more than $3 billion in financing
during the past two years alone and $6 billion since 2000. Recent scientific and
economic studies show that early childhood nutrition and stimulation can have a
profound impact on brain development and on health, learning, and future earnings.
Underscoring a commitment to invest in young children, the Bank has also launched
innovative partnerships over the past year, including the Power of Nutrition and the
Early Childhood Development Action Network with UNICEF, foundations, and other
development partners.
As the world’s leading international financier of education in developing countries, the Bank is committed to helping achieve inclusive and quality education for
all. The Bank is building on a successful track record in health care by increasingly

	

2016 OVERVIEW 	

19

-----------------------Page 23 End-----------------------

World Bank support for installment payments for housing reconstrution is helping
residents affected by the devastating earthquakes in Nepal to rebuild their lives in the
face of many challenges. (© Laxmi Prasad Ngakhusi/World Bank)

using results-based financing to help countries construct educational systems with
the incentives necessary for reaching the most marginalized children and youth.
Recognizing the importance of empowering girls and women, the Bank announced
in April 2016 that it would provide $2.5 billion over five years in education programs
that will directly benefit adolescent girls.
The Bank also plays a leading role in efforts to expand social protection programs
and build the resilience of the poorest and most vulnerable people in the face of
shocks. A joint statement by the World Bank Group and the International Labour
Organization laid out a shared vision of social protection for all—a world where anyone who needs social protection can access it at any time. The Bank Group’s investments in social safety nets—more than $1.7 billion over the past five years—are having
direct, positive impacts on poor families worldwide through the use of cash transfers,
labor-intensive public works, and school feeding programs. Cash transfers are increasingly seen as an important safety net tool for forcibly displaced people living in fragile,
conflict, or violent situations. As of 2015, every country in the world has at least one
social safety net program in place, benefiting more than 1.9 billion people.
At the South-South Learning Forum in Beijing, November 2015, around 250 policy makers from 75 countries gathered to discuss, share, and learn from emerging
knowledge and practical innovations on social protection in urban areas, which are
home to an increasing share of the world’s poorest people. Safety nets can play a key
role in identifying and supporting the urban poor, connecting them to social services and job opportunities.
More than 200 million people worldwide—many of them youth—are currently
unemployed and looking for work. To accelerate progress toward good jobs and
economic growth, the Bank is conducting in-depth Jobs Diagnostics in at least 15
countries aimed at helping them to create more, better, and more inclusive jobs
through skills building, work incentives, greater labor mobility, and other labor market reforms.

Closing gender gaps for greater economic opportunity
Gender biases can constrain both males and females, but they have historically disadvantaged girls and women more. Notably, women lag behind on most measures
20	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 24 End-----------------------

Meeting diverse client demands with Reimbursable Advisory Services
Through its Reimbursable Advisory Services, the World Bank provides customized analytical and
advisory services that are requested and paid for by clients. These services enable the Bank to
meet client demand for its advice that cannot be funded through the Bank’s financial resources.
Reimbursable Advisory Services are in high demand, particularly in middle- and high-income
countries. Eligible clients are all of the Bank’s member states, their states and municipalities,
state-owned enterprises, civil society organizations, and other multilateral agencies.
Reimbursable Advisory Services are highly flexible, and they comprise a wide variety of activities, including technical assistance and training, research and analysis, workshops, conferences,
and preparation and implementation support for client-financed projects. Today, the Bank has
over 200 active engagements in more than 60 countries in all of its six regions. In fiscal 2016, the
Bank delivered about 223 Reimbursable Advisory Services in over 40 countries. Revenues from
these services amounted to $91.5 million in fiscal 2016, reflecting the continued strong client
demand in recent years. Overall, revenues have grown by about 300 percent since fiscal 2010.

of economic opportunity, and this holds back not just individuals but entire economies. Closing gender gaps can help countries to increase productivity and improve
prospects for the next generation. The World Bank works with public and private
sector clients to close these gaps.
Progress in key indicators—such as girls’ school enrollment and completion rates,
maternal mortality, labor force participation, asset ownership, and access to financial
services—depends on investment in multiple sectors, including water and sanitation, transportation, and finance. This requirement is reflected in the new World
Bank Group Gender Strategy (FY16–23): Gender Equality, Poverty Reduction, and
Inclusive Growth, which focuses on approaches and interventions that achieve
meaningful results. The strategy prioritizes four key objectives: improving human
endowments through health care, education, and social protection; removing constraints to more and better jobs, including tackling skills gaps and occupational sex
segregation, and addressing issues related to unpaid care; removing barriers to
women’s ownership and control of land, housing, technology, and finance; and
enhancing women’s voice and agency while engaging men and boys in that effort.
The Bank continues to scale up commitments and partnerships in order to collect
and distill more and better sex-disaggregated data. It is working with UN agencies
and others to gather such data, including those on vital statistics, asset ownership,
time use, labor, health care, and the use of financial services. Gender data dissemination is supported through the Bank’s newly updated and expanded Gender
Data Portal.
To help countries identify what works and what does not in order to close economic gender gaps, four regional Gender Innovation Labs are building the evidence
base across different contexts. Seventy-five impact evaluations are under way on
skills, land rights, access to infrastructure, labor force participation, entrepreneurship, youth employment, gender-based violence, and teenage pregnancy. The Bank
is also working to close the credit gap, estimated at about $300 billion globally, for
formal, women-owned, small and medium enterprises, as well as the gender gap in
financial account ownership.

Confronting the causes and consequences of conflict
and fragility
Some 2 billion people—more than one-quarter of the global population—live
in countries where development outcomes are affected by fragility, conflict, and
	

2016 OVERVIEW 	

21

-----------------------Page 25 End-----------------------

­violence. The challenge is widespread and complex, including protracted forced
displacement, violent extremism, and citizen security. Building on its experience in
conflict-sensitive development, the World Bank’s approach aims to address these
issues in the broader context. Activities in fiscal 2016 also focused on developing
innovative financing solutions, including those with private sector involvement, to
ensure rapid response to global crises, and on reinforcing strategic partnerships
between humanitarian and development actors.
World Bank operations are supported by analytical work to address fragility, conflict, and violence. Diagnostic tools for conflict-sensitive programming are included,
with 46 risk and resilience assessments conducted to inform the Bank Group’s Systematic Country Diagnostics and Country Partnership Frameworks. A priority for
fiscal 2016 was to strengthen the development response to forced displacement by
conducting analytical work to establish a framework for operational engagement as
well as develop a joint approach among seven multilateral development banks. To
promote dialogue and knowledge sharing, the World Bank hosted the global Fragility Forum in early 2016, engaging with more than 100 organizations. Collaboration
with the following partners supports effective delivery: the Global Program on
Forced Displacement, the UN–World Bank Fragility and Conflict Partnership Trust
Fund, the State and Peace-Building Fund, and the Korea Trust Fund for Economic
and Peacebuilding Transitions.
The Bank supports operations that aim to address the drivers of fragility, including more assistance for the vulnerable who are displaced by conflict. In Africa, the
Bank provided IDA credits totaling almost $250 million to forcibly displaced people
and host communities in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Uganda, and Zambia. The increased funding in the region recognizes that forced
displacement is a global challenge. With this funding, the Bank has delivered on
promises made by President Jim Yong Kim and UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon
during a joint mission to Africa’s Great Lakes region in May 2013, and to the Horn of
Africa in October 2014. The two leaders have continued their collaboration this fiscal
year, traveling together in March 2016 to Jordan, Lebanon, and Tunisia to promote
peace and development in the Middle East and North Africa.
Strengthening engagement and support for transitional processes during peaceful transfers of political power and other “turnaround” moments is critical to ensure
that countries do not return to conflict. IDA’s turnaround regime provides a higher
level of financing to countries with significant opportunities for building stability
and resilience to accelerate their transition out of fragility. In fiscal 2016, GuineaBissau and Madagascar were determined to be eligible, based on the evidence of
government commitment to a reform agenda and shared understanding among key
development partners on increasing support to the country, and $20 million and
$230 million were allocated, respectively.
The World Bank Global Platform on Addressing Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV) was launched in March 2015 to provide services to survivors of SGBV,
contribute to prevention, raise public awareness, and build the capacity of client
countries through South-South knowledge sharing. The platform includes innovative pilots in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Georgia, Nepal, and Papua New
Guinea. After a global learning tour in 2015 with representatives of all projects, the
platform is organizing regional learning tours in 2016 for clients to learn from
regional best practice.
To learn more about the sectors in which the World bank works, visit worldbank
.org/topics.

22	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 26 End-----------------------

The Regions

T

he World Bank today operates out of more than 130 offices worldwide. An
increased presence in client countries is helping the Bank to better understand,
work more effectively with, and provide more timely services to its partners
in those countries. Ninety-six percent of Country Directors/Country Managers

and 40 percent of staff are based in countries within each of the six geographical
regions. The following section highlights the major goals achieved, projects undertaken,
strategies revised, and publications produced in fiscal 2016. For more information, visit
worldbank.org/countries.

TABLE 1

FISCAL 2016 COMMITMENTS
	
REGION	

Africa
East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

IBRD 	
IDA	
TOTAL IBRD/IDA	 TOTAL IBRD/IDA
($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	 SHARE (PERCENT)

669
5,176
7,039
8,035
5,170

8,677
2,324
233
183
31

9,346
7,500
7,272
8,218
5,201

20
16
16
18
11

3,640
29,729

4,723
16,171

8,363
45,900

19
100

TABLE 2

FISCAL 2016 DISBURSEMENTS
	
REGION	

Africa
East Asia and Pacific
Europe and Central Asia
Latin America and the Caribbean
Middle East and North Africa
South Asia
Total

IBRD 	
IDA	
TOTAL IBRD/IDA	 TOTAL IBRD/IDA
($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	 ($ MILLIONS)	 SHARE (PERCENT)

874
5,205
5,167
5,236
4,427
1,623
22,532

6,813
1,204
365
303
44
4,462
13,191

7,687
6,409
5,532
5,539
4,471
6,085
35,723

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $207.3 billion.

21
18
15
16
13
17
100

-----------------------Page 27 End-----------------------

Africa

A

lthough Africa has made progress over the course of the past 10 years—in terms of
both economic growth and poverty reduction—the region now faces significant
challenges mainly because of the global decline in commodity prices and regionspecific risks. Growth in Africa slowed to 3.0 percent in 2015, down from 4.5 percent in 2014 and the slowest pace since 2009, and it is projected to drop further, to 2.5 percent
in 2016. Per capita income growth was even more modest, weighed down by population
growth.
There is variation across countries, particularly between resource-rich and non–resourcerich countries, but overall, the region’s economic growth trend remains below pre–financial
crisis levels. Slower growth deepens the challenge of reducing poverty. Despite progress, the
share of the population living on $1.90 a day or less remains very high, estimated at 42.7 percent in 2012.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $9.3 billion for the region for 109 projects this fiscal year, including $669
million in IBRD loans and $8.7 billion in IDA commitments, of which $200 million was from the
IDA Scale-up Facility. Key focus areas included raising agricultural productivity, increasing
access to affordable and reliable energy, building resilience to climate change, strengthening
fragile and ­conflict-affected areas, and promoting good-quality education.
The Bank also made important contributions to knowledge this fiscal year. According to
Poverty in a Rising Africa, the incidence of poverty in the region may be lower than current
estimates indicate. Because of population growth, however, the number of Africans living in
extreme poverty is at least 50 million higher today than it was in 1990.

Boosting agricultural productivity
Agriculture accounts for 65 percent of employment in Africa. At a time when some countries are
facing challenges from the decline in commodity prices, developing this sector can help to diversify economies. To improve the lives of 2 million of the estimated 50 million pastoralists in the
region, the $248 million Regional Sahel Pastoralism Support Project aims specifically to improve
access to essential productive assets, services, and markets in six countries—Burkina Faso, Chad,
Mali, Mauritania, Niger, and Senegal—and to improve the local response to pastoral crises and
emergencies. Most of the beneficiaries of the six-year project will be women and youth.

Increasing affordable and reliable energy
Africa continues to lag behind other regions in access to electricity—an irony given the continent’s huge potential for renewable energy, including hydropower, solar, and geothermal.
Increasing access to affordable, reliable, and sustainable energy is a primary objective of the
Bank’s work in Africa. This fiscal year the Bank provided $700 million for the Sankofa Gas Project in Ghana, which will develop offshore natural gas resources located 60 kilometers from the
western shore. Gas from the project will fuel up to 1,000 megawatts of domestic power gen24	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 28 End-----------------------

 S IERRA LEONE © Dominic Chavez/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Angola
Benin
Botswana
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cabo Verde
Cameroon
Central African Republic
Chad
Comoros

Democratic Republic
of Congo
Republic of Congo
Côte d’Ivoire
Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia
Gabon
The Gambia
Ghana
Guinea

Guinea-Bissau
Kenya
Lesotho
Liberia
Madagascar
Malawi
Mali
Mauritania
Mauritius

Mozambique
Namibia
Niger
Nigeria
Rwanda
São Tomé and Príncipe
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone

South Africa
South Sudan
Swaziland
Tanzania
Togo
Uganda
Zambia
*as of June 30, 2016

eration, about 40 percent of Ghana’s currently installed generation capacity. The project will
leverage $7.9 billion in private sector investments, yielding huge potential fiscal returns and
benefits to Ghana.

Adapting to climate change and building climate resilience
Climate change, especially changes in temperature and rainfall patterns, is projected to hit
Africa’s poorest people particularly hard. Investing in adaptation techniques and disaster risk
management therefore remains a top priority for the Bank. The Africa Climate Business Plan,
presented at the 21st Conference of Parties (COP 21) climate change talks in Paris, December
2015, laid out a work program to help countries both mitigate and adapt to the effects of climate change. In April 2016, the World Bank, in collaboration with partners, agreed to establish
the West Africa coastal observatory to enhance the knowledge base on coastal erosion, flooding, and other climate change hazards that West Africa’s coastal and island nations face. The
observatory will build national and regional capacity and support countries’ efforts to strengthen
the resilience of their coastal areas to climate change.

Supporting fragile and conflict-affected countries
This fiscal year IDA approved turnaround resources for Guinea-Bissau and Madagascar. These
funds help fragile and conflict-affected states to address the roots of fragility and support their
transition to functioning states. In Guinea-Bissau and Madagascar, they will support key government reform initiatives, including the strengthening of a transparent and accountable public
financial management system.
Regional initiatives by the World Bank and the United Nations in the Great Lakes, the Sahel,
and the Horn of Africa are supporting cross-border efforts to address the underlying causes of
fragility. The Bank is addressing the pressing issue of displacement in the Great Lakes and the
Horn of Africa with two operations to help countries manage ongoing crises through support
for forcibly displaced people and their host communities.

Fostering the development of human capital
Every year for the next decade, 11 million African youth will enter the job market. They must be
equipped with the right skills and training in order to succeed. To help bridge the gap between
what African students are learning and the skills employers seek, the Bank has launched initiatives
to boost STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) education across the region.
A $140 million Africa Higher Education Centers of Excellence project is funding 24 competitively
selected centers in institutions of higher education in Eastern and Southern Africa. It will
strengthen their capacity and focus on producing excellent training, applied research, and knowledge transfer in priority sectors such as agriculture, health, education, and applied statistics.
o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

25

-----------------------Page 29 End-----------------------

FIGURE 1 AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $9.3 BILLION

5%

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

7%

Transportation

5%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

9%

Education

Public Administration,
Law, and Justice

20%

17%

Information and Communications

<1%

3%

Industry and Trade

4%

Energy and Mining

Finance

31%

Health and Other Social Services

TABLE 3  AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	

668	

874	

1,001	

Population growth (annual %)	

2.7	

2.8	

2.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	

504	

1,280	

1,627	

0.9	

2.7	

0.2	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	

399b	398	389	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	

51	

58	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	

49	

55	

57	

Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	

62	

66	

66	

Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	

75	

76	

76	

556	

720	

753	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)	

60	

MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age (% children under 5)	

57.1b	 46.1	42.7	
43	

38	

36	

SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)	

846	

625	

547	

SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)	

154	

101	

83	

SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	

55	

68	

69	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)	

81	

84	

84	

SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in national parliaments (% total)	

12	

19	

24	

SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)	

55	

63	

68	

SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(% population with access)	

25	

28	

30	

SDG 7.1 Access to electricity (% population)	

26	

32	

35	

SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)	

73	

71	

70	

SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	

0.5	

10	

22	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2011 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

	

THE REGIONS 	

26

-----------------------Page 30 End-----------------------

FIGURE 2 AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $9.3 BILLION

14%

Urban Development

Trade and Integration
Social Protection and
Risk Management

2%

Economic Management
Environment and Natural
Resources Management

2%

2%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

16%
22%
16%

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion

4%

Rural Development

10%
11%

Human Development

Public Sector Goverance

1%

Rule of Law

TABLE 4  AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

420	 1,209	669	
10,193	 10,360	8,677	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY14	 FY15	 FY16

335a	816	 874
6,604	 6,595	 6,813

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $56.1 billion.
a.  This figure from Annual Report 2014 was revised because of rounding.

Increasing agricultural productivity in West Africa

I

n 2008, the World Bank piloted the West Africa Agricultural Productivity Program
(WAAPP) in Ghana, Mali, and Senegal. The results were impressive: Beneficiaries’
incomes rose 34 percent, yields rose 30 percent, calorie intake increased, and the
length of hunger periods declined. The pilot’s success led to the program’s rollout in
10 more countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, The Gambia, Guinea, Liberia,
Niger, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Togo.
The expanded program has raised incomes and improved food security for
7 million direct beneficiaries (42 percent of them women) and some 50 million
indirect beneficiaries. It has provided smallholders working on almost 4 million
hectares of land with 160 new crop varieties, food-processing tools, and other
agricultural technologies. WAAPP is also building a future of agricultural innovation.
It is supporting the establishment of nine research centers of specialization, which
coordinate research and implementation across the region. WAAPP has also financed
masters and doctoral degree training for more than 1,000 young scientists and
involved universities in developing agricultural technologies.
The success of the program led the Bank to expand it in Senegal this year.
Additional funding of $20 million will support government efforts to strengthen the
production of certified seeds and the marketing system for groundnuts, and help to
diversify activities in the groundnut basin.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/afr.

	

THE REGIONS 	

27

-----------------------Page 31 End-----------------------

East Asia and Pacific

G

rowth in the developing countries of East Asia and Pacific slowed slightly in 2015 to
6.5 percent, down from 6.8 percent in 2014. Decelerating economic growth in
China, as well as in Indonesia, Malaysia, and Mongolia, accounted for most of the
decline. Growth in the region’s developing countries other than China was 4.8 percent, similar to 2014. Despite the slowdown, the region accounted for almost two-fifths of
global growth in 2015—an even larger contribution than in 2014.
Extreme poverty has declined faster here than in any other region, falling from 80 percent
in 1981 to an estimated 7.2 percent in 2012. Even with this remarkable progress, however, some
90 million people still live in extreme poverty—and another 250 million are vulnerable to falling
back into extreme poverty as a result of climate change, natural disasters, disease, and economic shocks. Economic inequality is high in many countries even though the incomes of the
bottom 40 percent of the population in most countries have been rising more rapidly than the
incomes of the rest of the population. Income inequality partly reflects inequality of opportunity, including differential access to health services and education.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $7.5 billion for 41 projects in the region this fiscal year, including $5.2 billion in IBRD loans and $2.3 billion in IDA commitments. The Bank’s strategy in the region
focuses on five areas: inclusion and empowerment, jobs and private sector–led growth, governance and institutions, infrastructure and urbanization, and climate change and disaster risk
management. The cross-cutting themes of gender and fragility are also central to the Bank’s
work in the region.

Combating malnutrition and improving health
The region is the epicenter of the double burden of stunting and obesity—both forms of malnutrition. Indonesia, Myanmar, the Philippines, and Vietnam are among the 34 countries that
account for 90 percent of the global burden of stunting. China and Indonesia are among the
10 countries that account for more than 50 percent of the global burden of obesity.
Stunting significantly reduces the physical and mental capabilities of children, imposing
enormous human and economic costs. In Indonesia, for example, where 37 percent of children
are stunted, economic losses associated with stunting are estimated at 2–3 percent of GDP.
The Bank’s strategy to combat malnutrition promotes collaboration with policy makers, civil
society, the private sector, and development partners to boost investment in nutrition and
research to inform policy responses. The Bank is also investing in nutrition projects such as the
National Program for Community Empowerment (PNPM Generasi) in Indonesia, which is helping to improve maternal and child health. In one of the country’s poorest provinces, the project
helped to decrease the incidence of underweight and severely underweight children by 20
percent and 33 percent, respectively, and stunting decreased by 21 percent.

28	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 32 End-----------------------

 C AMBODIA © Chor Sokunthea/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Cambodia
China
Fiji
Indonesia
Kiribati
Republic of Korea

Lao People’s Democratic
Republic
Malaysia
Marshall Islands
Federated States of Micronesia
Mongolia
Myanmar

Palau
Papua New Guinea
Philippines
Samoa
Solomon Islands
Thailand
Timor-Leste

Tonga
Tuvalu
Vanuatu
Vietnam
*as of June 30, 2016

Bolstering climate change mitigation and resilience
The region includes 13 of the 30 countries that are most vulnerable to climate change. It also
bears the brunt of 70 percent of the world’s natural disasters, which have affected more than
1.6 billion people in the region since 2000. Particularly hard hit have been the Pacific Island
countries, where the rising sea level is threatening coastal areas and atoll islands.
East Asia and Pacific is also the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions, accounting
for a third of the world’s carbon dioxide emissions and 60 percent of its coal consumption. The
region is therefore critical for advancing the global climate change agenda. To do so, the
Bank is working with governments, the private sector, and other development partners on a
range of innovative solutions to support greener and cleaner energy policies, including carbon
pricing.
The Bank also helps clients to adopt climate-smart approaches in areas such as urban development and agriculture. Beijing, for example, is striving to become a model for other Chinese
cities in promoting resource-efficient and environmentally friendly urban economic growth.
With support from the Bank, it installed 100 megawatts of rooftop solar photovoltaic systems
in 800 primary and middle schools. In Vietnam, the use of climate-smart approaches to rice
cultivation has helped more than 30,000 farmers produce more rice while cutting costs and
reducing methane emissions.

Fostering knowledge partnerships for development solutions
The Bank continued to deepen its knowledge and research partnerships to help clients identify
solutions to their evolving development challenges with Vietnam 2035: Toward Prosperity,
Creativity, Equity, and Democracy, which examines how Vietnam can become a modern industrial nation in 20 years. The Bank expanded its partnerships with nonborrower member countries this year, opening an office in Kuala Lumpur in March. The new Malaysia office, along with
the office in Songdo, Republic of Korea, and the Singapore Global Infrastructure Hub, are
intended to generate and share development knowledge, lessons, and solutions with countries
in the region and across the globe.

o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

29

-----------------------Page 33 End-----------------------

FIGURE 3  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.5 BILLION

12%

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

9%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

4%
Transportation

Education

17%
28%

Public Administration,
Law, and Justice

Energy and Mining

15%
4%

0%

Information and Communications

6%

Industry and Trade

5%

Finance
Health and Other Social Services

TABLE 5  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
	

	
1,815	
1,964	2,035	

Population growth (annual %)	
	

	
1.0	
0.7	0.7	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
	

	
912	
3,757	6,407	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
	

	
6.4	
9.0	5.7	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	
	 b	226	147	
	553
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	
	

	
72	
75	76	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	
	

	
68	
71	72	

Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	
	

98	 99	99	

Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	
	

98	 99	99	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)		
	
4,212	 9,558	10,485	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
				
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)		 b	11.2	 7.2	
	29.2
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age (% children under 5)		
	
26	 15	11	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)		
	
120	79	63	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)		
	
42	 23	18	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	
	

90	 105	105	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)		
	
82	 79	79	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in national parliaments (% total)		
	
17	 18	20	
SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)		
	
80	 90	94	
SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(% population with access)		
	
59	 70	75	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity (% population)		
	
91	 95	96	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)		
	
31	 22	21	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	
	

2	 29	45	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2011 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

	

THE REGIONS 	

30

-----------------------Page 34 End-----------------------

FIGURE 4  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.5 BILLION

11%

Urban Development

2%

1%

Trade and Integration
Social Protection
and Risk Management

17%

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion

2%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

9%
7%
0%

Rule of Law

Environment and Natural
Resources Management

26%

19%

Rural Development

Economic Management

Human Development

6%

Public Sector Governance

TABLE 6  EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

FY14	 FY15	 FY16

4,181	 4,539	5,176	
2,131	 1,803	2,324	

3,397	 3,596	 5,205
1,459	 1,499	 1,204

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $32.3 billion.

Protecting Mongolia’s herders with innovative insurance

M

ongolia’s winters are beautiful, but they can be very harsh. In an extremely
cold winter—known as a dzud—livestock die, costing herders their
livelihoods.
To protect herders from these devastating losses, the Bank created index-based
livestock insurance. The project, launched in 2006 and completed in 2016, introduced
an innovative insurance scheme in which payments are based on the total number
of livestock lost by species and district rather than on households’ individual losses.
The program is a combination of self-insurance, market-based insurance, and social
safety net. Herders bear the cost of small losses that do not affect the viability of
their business. Larger losses are transferred to the private insurance industry. In the
event of catastrophic losses, the government steps in. The system provides strong
incentives to herders to continue to manage their herds in the face of disasters. If
a herder suffers no losses while his neighbors lose large parts of their herd after a
dzud or a drought, he is rewarded for his extra effort and receives a sum based on
the losses of the area as a whole.
Under the traditional system, it was difficult for insurers to verify losses by
individual herders in Mongolia’s vast territory. Because the index system relies on
verifiable statistics, estimating losses is a much simpler process that leaves less room
for error. This innovative product benefits herders and makes good business sense
for insurance companies.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/eap.

	

THE REGIONS 	

31

-----------------------Page 35 End-----------------------

Europe and Central Asia

G

rowth in Europe and Central Asia is projected to improve only modestly in 2016
compared with 2015’s contraction of 0.1 percent. Weak global growth, policy
uncertainty resulting from Britain’s referendum to leave the European Union, continued geopolitical tensions, and the refugee crisis all contribute to constraining the
regional recovery. In Eurasia, ongoing low oil revenues and weak remittance flows continue to
dampen growth, following a contraction of 1.1 percent in 2015.
Significant poverty reduction over the past decade is reversing, and the sharing of prosperity is stalled in many countries. About 14 percent of the region’s population—more than 66
million people—live in poverty, including almost 19 million who live on less than $2.50 a day,
the extreme poverty line for the region.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $7.3 billion in lending to the region for 42 projects this fiscal year, including
$7.0 billion in IBRD loans and $233 million in IDA commitments. The Bank also signed 34 Reimbursable Advisory Services agreements with 9 countries for a total of $34.1 million. These agreements provide technical advice on such issues as the reform of education systems, public sector
governance and institutional capacity building, and the planning and management of infrastructure investments.
The strategy for the region seeks to support clients in adjusting to the new normal given
increasing vulnerabilities and risks. Toward that end, the Bank is supporting macroeconomic
stability and advising on the policy response to currency pressures; working with clients to
address the challenges of forced displacement and declining remittances; advising clients on
budgets to support key reforms; supporting the development of safety nets; and helping countries to prioritize investment. At the same time, the Bank continues to assist in tackling the
structural and long-term challenges affecting the region.

Supporting resilience, diversification, and competitiveness
This year the Bank invested in macroeconomic growth, good governance, competitiveness,
and job creation in Armenia, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Serbia, and Ukraine. It
also invested in improving public sector governance and ensuring good-quality public services
in Albania, Armenia, Belarus, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, Serbia, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. It
helped to foster innovation, entrepreneurship, and private sector growth in Croatia and the
Kyrgyz Republic; improve access to finance for micro, small, and medium enterprises in Turkey;
and develop competitive tourism services in Georgia and the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia. Bank-funded programs supported the resiliency and efficiency of the financial
sector and banking systems in Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, and Ukraine, and
helped Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, FYR Macedonia, Moldova, and Ukraine to
modernize and expand their transport infrastructure in order to support growth, connectivity,
and competitiveness.
32	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 36 End-----------------------

 B OSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA © Almie Zrno/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Albania
Armenia
Azerbaijan
Belarus
Bosnia and
Herzegovina
Bulgaria

Croatia
Georgia
Kazakhstan
Kosovo
Kyrgyz Republic
Former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia

Moldova
Montenegro
Poland
Romania
Russian Federation
Serbia

Tajikistan
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Ukraine
Uzbekistan
*as of June 30, 2016

The Bank offered advice on and analytical services for improving the investment climate and
business environment in Greece, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Poland, Romania, the Russian
Federation, and Spain; public finance and public sector efficiency in Albania, Armenia, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, FYR Macedonia, Poland, Romania, Serbia, and Uzbekistan; and trade
and competitiveness in Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Russia, Turkmenistan, and the countries
of the Western Balkans.
The Bank produces macroeconomic analysis and sector-specific policy recommendations in
its periodic economic reports on many of the region’s countries. The latest “Russia Economic
Report: The Long Journey to Recovery” focused on the challenges of economic diversification
in Russia; and the “South East Europe Regular Economic Report Special Topic: The Impact of
Aging on Economic Growth” analyzed the impact of aging on economic growth in the countries of the Western Balkans.

Developing human capital and supporting inclusion
The Bank works with client countries in designing and implementing reforms to improve the
efficiency and fiscal sustainability of their pension, social protection, education, and health care
systems. This year it helped policy makers to improve health care systems in Kazakhstan and
education systems in Kosovo and Uzbekistan. It provided analytical and advisory services to
improve the efficiency and fiscal sustainability of the pension systems in Albania, Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Poland, Russia, and the Western Balkans, and to
improve safety net systems in Greece, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan.
The Bank published a book on the Roma this year. Being Fair, Faring Better: ­Promoting
Equality of Opportunity for Marginalized Roma identifies ways in which countries in Central
and Eastern Europe can create fair chances for disadvantaged Roma.

Supporting climate adaptation and energy efficiency
Climate adaptation and energy efficiency remain strategic priorities for Europe and Central
Asia, the world’s most energy-intensive developing region. The Bank advised on policy reforms
that would increase energy efficiency in the Kyrgyz Republic, FYR Macedonia, and the member
countries of the European Union. It supported flood management in Poland, and provided
investments and analytical services to improve climate resilience in Central Asia, Romania, and
the Western Balkans.

o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

33

-----------------------Page 37 End-----------------------

 U GANDA © Sarah Farhat/World Bank

FIGURE 5  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.3 BILLION
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

6% 1%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

1%

Education

2%
Transportation

Energy and Mining

18%

28%

8%

Finance
Health and
Other Social Services

17%
19%

Public Administration, Law, and Justice

<1%

Industry and Trade
Information and Communications

TABLE 7  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total
population (millions)	
	

	
393	399	
411	

Population
growth (annual %)	
	

	
0.0	0.5	0.6	

GNI
	per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
GDP
per capita growth (annual %)	
	

	
1,767	7,326	8,226	
	
8.0	
4.8	–01.2	

Population
living below $1.90 a day (millions)	
	b	13	 10	
	29
Life
expectancy at birth, females (years)	
	

	
73	75	76	

Life
expectancy at birth, males (years)	
	

	
63	66	68	

Youth
literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	
	

98	99	99	

Youth
	literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	

99	 100	100	

Carbon
	 dioxide emissions (megatons)		
2,699	3,085	3,208	
MONITORING
THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
				
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below
$1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)		 b	2.8	 2.1	
	6.2
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age
(% children under 5)		
	
19	12	10	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled
	 estimate, per 100,000 live births)		
56	29	25	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per
1,000 live births)		
	
42	25	21	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(%
relevant age group)	
	

94	 98	100	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation
rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)		
	
73	73	72	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in
national parliaments (% total)		
	
7	 15	18	
SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(%
population with access)		
	
92	95	97	
SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(%
population with access)		
	
82	85	86	
SDG
7.1 Access to electricity (% population)		
	
99	 100	100	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(%
total final energy consumption)		
	
6	6	6	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(%
population)	
	

2	 36	60	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2011 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

	

THE REGIONS 	

34

-----------------------Page 38 End-----------------------

FIGURE 6  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $7.3 BILLION

11%

Trade and Integration
Social Protection and
Risk Management

6%

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion

1%

Rural Development

6%

Rule of Law

3%

Public Sector Governance

9%

2%

4%

Human Development

Urban Development

8%

Economic Management
Environment and Natural
Resources Management

10%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

42%

TABLE 8  EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

FY14	 FY15	 FY16

4,729	 6,679	7,039	
798	 527	233	

6,536a	5,829	 5,167
519	 314	 365

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $27.2 billion.
a.  This figure from Annual Report 2014 was revised because of rounding.

Building resilience after the floods in Bosnia and Herzegovina

I

n the village of Prud, in the northern part of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Dragan
Petric and his neighbors rely on their plots of land. They raise poultry and cattle
and grow fruit and vegetables to provide for their families. In the middle of one
night in May 2014, Dragan’s family awoke to find their house inundated with over 1.5
meters of water and mud. The nearby Sava River had flooded its banks after days of
unprecedented heavy rains, ruining homes, furniture, and vehicles; destroying roads
and bridges; and submerging their land. 
After the flooding, the local governments provided emergency assistance to
people who suffered losses in the floods. Supporting this assistance, the World
Bank delivered $100 million from the Floods Emergency Recovery Project to help
populations in the areas affected by the floodwaters restore their lives to preflood
conditions. Thanks to this support, Dragan received a new tractor—a key asset for
his family’s livelihood—to replace the one he lost to the destructive floods in 2014.
After the first two years of project implementation, about 150,000 people have
benefited from rehabilitated infrastructure, and about 100,000 beneficiaries have
received construction materials, agricultural goods and equipment, and other
emergency goods. With many more subprojects ongoing to reconstruct the affected
local and regional infrastructure, the Floods Emergency Recovery Project is expected
to reach its goal of ultimately providing assistance to 300,000 people in the floodaffected areas of Bosnia and Herzegovina.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/eca. 

	

THE REGIONS 	

35

-----------------------Page 39 End-----------------------

Latin America
and the Caribbean

A

fter a decade of strong, inclusive economic growth, Latin America and the
Caribbean finds itself in the fifth year of an economic slowdown and the second
con­
secutive year of GDP contraction. Worsening external conditions coupled
with domestic challenges have reduced expectations for regional growth to –0.7
percent in 2015, with economic activity projected to drop to –1.3 percent in 2016.
These projections mask important intraregional differences. South American economies,
which have been hit hardest by lower commodity prices and the slowdown in China, are
expected to contract by 2.6 percent in 2016. In Mexico, Central America, and the Caribbean,
lower commodity dependence and closer links to the U.S. economy are expected to fuel a
modest expansion of 2.7 percent in 2016.
Sluggish growth, potentially for an extended period, is threatening the region’s hard-won
social gains. The share of the population living on $2.50 a day or less, the threshold for extreme
poverty in the region, fell from 24.5 percent in 2003 to 11.0 percent in 2013. In total, 76 million
people were lifted out of poverty. These gains notwithstanding, in 2014, 39 percent of the
population remained vulnerable to ­falling into poverty, and the increase in the size of the middle class has slowed.

World Bank assistance
The Bank approved $8.2 billion and 31 operations for the region this fiscal year, including
$8.0 billion in IBRD loans and $183 million in IDA commitments.
Illustrating how the Bank’s role in Latin America and the Caribbean has evolved in recent
decades, countries in the region now turn increasingly to the institution for more than direct
lending, including such services as risk insurance, commodity swaps, and climate adaptation
finance. An example is the Caribbean Catastrophe Risk Insurance Facility, which the Bank helped
to establish in 2007, that now allows more than 20 Caribbean and Central American countries
to pool risk, access disaster insurance at low cost, and better manage catastrophic risk.
The Bank also remains a vital source of ideas, best practices, and convening power. Two
studies, Out of School and Out of Work: Risk and Opportunities for Latin America’s Ninis and
Indigenous Latin America in the Twenty-First Century: The First Decade, offer insight and guidance on key development issues, while conferences such as Governance for Growth with Equity,
held in Uruguay in April, demonstrate the Bank’s capacity to convene leaders around rising
regional challenges.

Spurring economic recovery
To set the stage for economic recovery, the region needs to increase productivity, strengthen
the business environment, and expose companies to greater domestic and external competition. To those ends, the Bank is supporting Colombia’s efforts to raise the level and allocation
of productive skills among professionals and to streamline regulations to catalyze innovation.
In Peru, it is helping to promote productivity by raising the quality of public education, and
36	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 40 End-----------------------

 C OLOMBIA © Dominic Chavez/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Antigua and Barbuda
Argentina
Belize
Plurinational State
of Bolivia
Brazil
Chile

Colombia
Costa Rica
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
El Salvador
Grenada

Guatemala
Guyana
Haiti
Honduras
Jamaica
Mexico
Nicaragua

Panama
Paraguay
Peru
St. Kitts and Nevis
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and the
Grenadines

Suriname
Trinidad and Tobago
Uruguay
República Bolivariana
de Venezuela
*as of June 30, 2016

helping to improve the business environment by reducing entrance, operation, and market exit
costs for companies.

Building sustainable infrastructure
Building better and more sustainable infrastructure to support higher growth in the region will
require mobilizing investment from both the public and the private sectors. The Bank has
played a catalytic role in this effort, providing lending and technical assistance to develop
high-quality infrastructure with a lower carbon footprint. In Lima, Peru, and Quito, Ecuador, the
Bank is working to develop metro systems that will reduce carbon emissions and unlock congestion. In the Caribbean, it is modernizing grid systems and helping businesses to retrofit their
buildings so they can save energy and draw on renewable sources of power.

Investing in the poor and vulnerable
Protecting the poor and vulnerable from the economic slowdown, and building their human
capital so they can share in the benefits of growth are top priorities in the region. In Costa Rica,
the Bank is supporting efforts to improve the quality and availability of health care for the poor.
In Haiti, it is working with its partners in the Education for All program to increase access to
schools and quality education for 73,000 disadvantaged children, and to provide daily meals
for 132,000 in this school year. In Mexico, it is helping to expand access to a broader range of
social services for beneficiaries of the Prospera conditional cash transfer program.

Building resilience and responding to shocks
Helping countries to build resilience against unexpected shocks—such as natural disasters and
public health emergencies—represents a cross-cutting theme that spans the Bank’s operational
work. In Bolivia, the Bank is assisting in the development of a comprehensive system to better
manage disaster-related risks. In February 2016, it offered $150 million to support the region’s
response to the Zika virus. Following a major earthquake that struck Ecuador in April, killing
hundreds of people and wounding thousands more, the Bank immediately made funds available from a recently approved $150 million Risk Mitigation and Emergency Recovery Project to
pay for medicine, mobile hospitals, and other basic services.

o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

37

-----------------------Page 41 End-----------------------

FIGURE 7  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $8.2 BILLION
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

10%

2%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

13%
Transportation

Education

3%

13%

Energy and Mining

7%
Public Administration,
Law, and Justice

21%

Health and Other
Social Services

17%

<1%

Information and Communications

Finance

14%

Industry and Trade

TABLE 9  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
	

	
464	
531	562	

Population growth (annual %)	
	

	
1.5	
1.2	1.1	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
	
GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
	

	
3,625	
7,669	8,331	
	
2.7	
4.3	–2.2	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	
	b	38	34	
	70
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	
	

	
74	
77	78	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	
	

	
68	
71	71	

Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	
	

96	 98	98	

Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	
	

96	 97	97	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)		
	
1,084	 1,375	1,399	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
				
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)		 b	6.5	 5.6	
	13.2
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age (% children under 5)		
	
18	 13	11	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)		
	
104	84	70	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)		
	
34	 26	19	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	
	

96	 99	101	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)		
	
61	 67	68	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in national parliaments (% total)		
	
15	 23	29	
SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)		
	
89	 93	94	
SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(% population with access)		
	
72	 79	81	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity (% population)		
	
93	 95	96	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)		
	
31	 31	30	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	
	

3	 33	53	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2011 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

		INTRODUCTION
THE REGIONS 	

38
37

-----------------------Page 42 End-----------------------

FIGURE 8  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $8.2 BILLION

6%

Urban Development

7%

Trade and Integration
Social Protection and
Risk Management

14%

Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion

2%

Rural Development

Rule of Law

<1%

Economic Management

12%

4%

2%

Environment amd Natural
Resources Management

14%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

18%

Human Development

18%

Public Sector Governance

TABLE 10  LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

FY14	 FY15	 FY16

4,609	 5,709	8,035	
460	 315	183	

5,662	 5,726	 5,236
306	 383	 303

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $28.8 billion.

Leveraging the Bank’s convening power to increase transparency
and accountability

T

ransparency, accountability, and zero tolerance for corruption are front and
center in the minds of citizens throughout Latin American and the Caribbean.
As the region’s middle class grew over the past decade, its population
began to expect and demand higher-quality public services and more-accountable
governments. At a time of slower economic growth and fewer resources, public
expenditure needs to become more efficient, while transparency and trust will be
key to assure taxpayers their money is being well spent.
These issues were the focus of a high-level regional conference that the Bank
hosted in Montevideo, Uruguay, in April. Cuentas Claras: Governance for Growth
with Equity in Latin America and the Caribbean attracted some 300 participants,
who exchanged ideas on the need for transparency in public spending, the rule of
law, justice as a public good, the role of procurement in improving public service
delivery, and other issues. Underscoring the rising importance of governance on the
regional agenda, the event included more than a dozen cabinet-level officials, such
as the finance ministers of Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. The conference also
drew academics and journalists from the region, as well as nearly 12,000 additional
people who participated in the conference live online.
The Cuentas Claras event demonstrates the critical role that the Bank can play
in convening top policy makers to help facilitate solutions to the most pressing
challenges to the region’s shared development goals.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/lac.

		INTRODUCTION
THE REGIONS 	

39
38

-----------------------Page 43 End-----------------------

Middle East and
North Africa

T

he Middle East and North Africa region continues to be in transition. Violence continues in Iraq, Libya, the Syrian Arab Republic, and Yemen; and Iraq, Jordan, and Lebanon are home to millions of forcibly displaced people. The Arab Republic of Egypt
and Tunisia are consolidating their political environments; Jordan and Morocco are
also undertaking governance and economic reforms; and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)
countries, while stable, are challenged by low oil prices and are initiating reforms to diversify
their economies. The situation in the West Bank and Gaza remains largely unchanged, with
occasional outbreaks of violence.
Economic growth in the region is projected to remain at 2.9 percent in 2016, with lowerthan-average growth in the GCC (2.2 percent) countries and in Lebanon, Morocco, and
Tunisia (1.8 percent), and higher-than-average growth in the region’s developing countries
(4.4 percent). Growth in 2017 is projected to rise to 4.2 percent, assuming in large part that oil
production increases in Libya and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Less than 3 percent of the population live in extreme poverty, but vulnerability is high because 53 percent of the population
live on $4.00 a day or less.

World Bank assistance
The World Bank approved $5.2 billion for the region for 15 projects this fiscal year, including
$5.2 billion in IBRD loans and $31 million in IDA commitments. It also committed $53 million
in special financing for five projects in the West Bank and Gaza.
The Bank delivered 187 analytical and advisory services in fiscal 2016. It partnered with the
UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) on a path-breaking report entitled The Welfare
of Syrian Refugees: Evidence from Jordan and Lebanon, which includes evidence-based policy
recommendations. Another report the Bank published, entitled Trust, Voice, and Incentives:
Learning from Local Success Stories in Service Delivery in the Middle East and North Africa,
examines the roles of incentives, trust, and engagement that suggest ways governments can
increase accountability, policy implementation, and service delivery. The Bank provided more
than $30 million in Reimbursable Advisory Services to GCC governments, with a focus on education, governance, economic diversification, and small and medium enterprises.
This fiscal year the Bank announced a new regional strategy that puts the promotion
of peace and social stability at its center. The strategy’s four pillars focus on forging a new
social contract in order to create more-inclusive and more-accountable ­governance structures
and private sector–driven economies; increasing regional cooperation; building resilience,
which includes the challenges of forcibly displaced people; and supporting economic recovery and reconstruction.

Renewing the social contract
The World Bank can play a role in helping countries in the region to renew the social contract
in at least three areas—jobs, quality services, and citizen engagement—to contribute to peace
40	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 44 End-----------------------

 L EBANON © Dominic Chavez/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Algeria
Djibouti
Arab Republic
of Egypt

Islamic Republic
of Iran
Iraq
Jordan

Lebanon
Libya
Morocco

Tunisia
Republic of Yemen
*as of June 30, 2016

This section also reports on the West Bank and Gaza.

and stability in the short term and economic growth in the long term. To promote trust in
government institutions and processes, the Bank approved a $1.2 billion loan for Iraq to help
it stabilize the fiscal situation and focus on governance reforms. It approved a $1 billion loan
to Egypt to improve its fiscal balances and support reforms in energy subsidies. A $500
million loan to Tunisia will allow the government to focus on governance and reforms that
will help create jobs. A $200 million loan to Morocco will help strengthen transparency and
accountability.

Increasing regional cooperation
Beyond economic benefits, the potential gains from increased integration in areas such as
energy, water, and education can serve to build regional cooperation and trust. A $250 million
loan to Jordan will significantly enhance its energy security by diversifying its energy imports
and building ties to neighboring exporters. A $200 million road transport loan to Tunisia will
enhance links to both its own lagging regions and its neighbors.

Building resilience to forced displacement
Building resilience to forced displacement means promoting the welfare of forcibly displaced
people and the host communities throughout the region. Support from the World Bank
includes a $350 million program for Iraq that will help to rebuild seven cities and towns that
have been liberated from Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), and will help to resettle their
returning populations (see project details in the box). A $20 million IDA grant to Djibouti will
support its efforts on behalf of forcibly displaced people there. A $12.3 million loan will expand
the coverage and enhance the social assistance package extended to people in Lebanon
affected by the Syrian crisis and assist all vulnerable Lebanese households.

Supporting economic recovery and reconstruction
Providing assistance to recover and restore economies affected by conflict and instability is at
the core of the Bank’s mission and assistance in the region. Buffeted by bouts of instability,
often linked to unemployed youth, Tunisia is seeking to strengthen the employability of higher
education graduates, whose rates of unemployment are the highest in the country. The Bank’s
$70 million loan will assist the government in its efforts to do so. Similarly, $5 million in financing to the West Bank and Gaza will support job creation in the private sector.

o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

41

-----------------------Page 45 End-----------------------

FIGURE 9  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.2 BILLION
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

14%

6%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

1%

Education

Transportation

10%

21%

Public Administration,
Law, and Justice

26%

9%

Finance

2%

Health and Other
Social Services

3%

Information and Communications

Energy and Mining

8%

Industry and Trade

TABLE 11 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
	

	
279	
332	363	

Population growth (annual %)	
	

	
1.8	
1.8	1.8	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
	

	
1,581	
3,963	4,390b	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
	

	
2.3	
3.5	–2.2b	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)c	
	

	
11	
10	9	

Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	
	

	
71	
74	74	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	
	

	
67	
69	70	

Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	
	

81	 89	89	

Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	
	

91	 94	94	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)		
	
873	 1,287	1,309	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
				
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)c		
	
4.17	 3.3	2.7	
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age (% children under 5)		
	
24	 19	17	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)		
	
125	 99	90	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)		
	
45	 29	25	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	
	

83	 92	93	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)		
	
25	 27	28	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in national parliaments (% total)		
	
4	 11	17	
SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)		
	
88	 89	93	
SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(% population with access)		
	
78	 86	90	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity (% population)		
	
90	 95	96	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)		
	
3	 3	3	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	
	

0.8	 21	38	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2008 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  Estimated data.
c.  1999, 2005, and 2008 data.

	

THE REGIONS 	

42

-----------------------Page 46 End-----------------------

FIGURE 10  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $5.2 BILLION

Social Protection and
Risk Management
Social Development,
Gender, and Inclusion
Rural Development
Rule of Law

11%

2%

Trade and Integration

Urban Development

8%

1%
2%
5%
0%

Economic Management
Environment and Natural
Resources Management

14%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

26%

30%

Public Sector Governance

2%

Human Development

TABLE 12  MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

FY14	 FY15	 FY16

2,588	 3,294	5,170	
199	 198	31	

1,666	 1,779	 4,427
273	194	 44

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $14.5 billion.

Supporting recovery and reform in Iraq

I

n the summer of 2014, Mosul, Iraq’s second-largest city, and other smaller cities and
towns in Iraq fell to ISIS. The defeats caused the government to fall and Western
and regional powers to intervene in support of a new, reformist government.
By the following summer, the Iraqi army and its allies had retaken control of
substantial portions of the country, including seven cities and towns that needed to
be rebuilt and prepared for the return of the thousands of residents who had fled. In
July 2015, the Bank approved the Iraq Emergency Operation for Development Project,
a $350 million package that will support the repair and reconstruction of damaged
power, water, and sanitation networks as well roads and bridges; the enhancement
of health care services; and the rebuilding of houses damaged in the conflict. The
operation is part of a larger program to be carried out over a five-year period in
two conflict-affected governorates, Salah Al-Din and Diyala, covering seven cities,
(Al-Aazeeam, Al-Alam, Al-Dalooeyya, As-Sadiya, Dour, Jalula, and Tikrit).
In December 2015, the Bank approved a $1.2 billion loan focused on three
areas: improving public expenditure management; increasing the sustainability of
the energy supply (by reducing gas flaring, harnessing natural gas, and reducing
subsidies on energy); and improving the transparency of state-owned enterprises,
such as allowing private banks to compete with Iraq’s two large, state-owned banks.
The reforms supported by this loan will help to stabilize the economy and lay the
foundations for inclusive growth for all Iraqis.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/mena.

	

THE REGIONS 	

43

-----------------------Page 47 End-----------------------

South Asia

S

outh Asia remains the world’s fastest-growing region although capital inflows declined,
inflation has been on the rise, and remittances from oil-­exporting countries started to
weaken. Economic growth rose to 7.0 percent in 2015, up from 6.8 percent in 2014, and
is projected to accelerate to 7.1 percent in 2016 and 7.2 percent in 2017. Growth was
especially strong in India, which continues to lead in performance among large emerging market economies.
Strong growth has translated into declining poverty and impressive improvements in
human development. The proportion of people living on less than $1.90 a day was estimated
at 18.8 percent as of 2012. Hundreds of millions still live slightly above the poverty line; however, more than 200 million live in slums, and about 500 million go without electricity. In addition, many countries in the region suffer from extreme forms of social exclusion and huge
infrastructure gaps, and the larger countries are experiencing increases in inequality. Development in the region will be key to meeting global poverty and prosperity goals.

World Bank assistance
The Bank delivered 37 projects totaling $8.4 billion in fiscal 2016, including $3.6 billion in IBRD
loans and $4.7 billion in IDA commitments, of which $100 million was from the IDA Scale-up
Facility. Lending included such transformational operations as the $1.5 billion Swachh Bharat
Mission Support Operation, which seeks to end open defecation in India; a $920 million package of IDA and IBRD funding that supports competitiveness and structural reform in Pakistan;
the $360 million Bangladesh Regional Waterway Transport Project; and the $250 million
Trans-Hindukush Road Connectivity Project in Afghanistan. The Bank also delivered 166 analytical and advisory services and approved 10 large Recipient-Executed Trust Fund (RETF) operations, $500 million of which went to Afghanistan.

Focusing on the drivers of sustainable growth
Sustainable growth of more than 7 percent a year is needed in South Asia if the region is to
meet its goals by 2030. To help it do so, the Bank’s regional strategy focuses on private sector
development (emphasizing infrastructure, job creation, and urbanization); social and financial
inclusion (emphasizing labor force participation and gender); governance and security; and
enhanced regional cooperation. The Afghanistan Trans-Hindukush Road Connectivity Project,
the India Bihar Transformative Development Project, and the Pakistan Power Sector Reform
Development ­Policy Credit are examples of operations aligned with these pillars.

Adopting a new Regional Gender Action Plan
This year the Bank adopted a new Regional Gender Action Plan for South Asia covering fiscal
years 2016–20. It prioritizes closing gender gaps and improving human capital outcomes, spurring economic empowerment, and giving women voice and agency. The cornerstone of the
plan is efforts to increase female labor force participation rates; create more and higher-skill
44	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 48 End-----------------------

 INDIA © Mohamad Al Arief/World Bank

COUNTRIES ELIGIBLE FOR WORLD BANK BORROWING*
Afghanistan
Bangladesh

Bhutan
India

Maldives
Nepal

Pakistan
Sri Lanka
*as of June 30, 2016

jobs for women; and make finance, trade, and private enterprise more inclusive of women. The
$290 million Bihar Transformative Development Project in India will mobilize women from the
poorest households in self-help groups and federations so that they can gain access to formal
credits, join farmer producer groups, and increase household savings.

Addressing global climate change
South Asia is the recipient of more than 33 percent of the Bank’s lending addressing climate
change and 40 percent of its lending for disaster risk management. A $113 million Weather
and Climate Services Regional Project, for example, aims to increase Bangladesh’s capacity
to deliver reliable weather, water, and climate information ­services by strengthening hydrometeorological monitoring and forecasting and improving early warning systems. Bank support will enhance agro-meteorological services to farmers in order to increase their productivity and help them to cope with weather and climate extremes.

Supporting jobs, improving governance and security
The $100 million Punjab Jobs and Competitiveness Program for Results for Pakistan seeks to
improve the business environment and support high-potential industrial clusters in Punjab.
The $75 million Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA) Temporarily Displaced Persons
Emergency Recovery Project is supporting the recovery of families affected by the security
crisis in these areas, promoting child health, and strengthening emergency safety net delivery
systems. The $41 million Second Public Financial Management Reform Project is strengthening
Afghanistan’s procurement, treasury, and audit systems.

Producing cutting-edge knowledge
The Bank published several important reports this fiscal year. Leveraging Urbanization in
South Asia: Managing Spatial Transformation for Prosperity and Livability argues that the
inadequate provision of housing, infrastructure, and basic urban services, as well as a failure
to deal with pollution, are constraining the potential of the region’s cities to fully realize the
benefits of agglomeration. Stitches to Riches? Apparel Employment, Trade, and Economic
Development in South Asia investigates the potential for expanding and improving jobs in the
labor-intensive apparel sector.
The Bank held a South-South Knowledge Exchange forum in Beijing in November 2015.
Delegations from South Asia shared lessons from Pakistan’s Benazir Income Support Program
and from BRAC’s Manoshi program in Bangladesh for maternal, newborn, and child health,
which was implemented in urban slums. Extensive knowledge exchange also took place in the
energy sector.

o View data
	

THE REGIONS 	

45

-----------------------Page 49 End-----------------------

FIGURE 11  SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY SECTOR • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $8.4 BILLION

22%

Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection

7%

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry

8%
Transportation

Education

9%
25%

Public Administration,
Law, and Justice

Energy and Mining

14%
3%

<1%

Information and Communications

7%

Industry and Trade

4%

Finance
Health and Other Social Services

TABLE 13 SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL SNAPSHOT

			CURRENT
INDICATOR	
2000	 2010	DATAa	TREND

Total population (millions)	
	

	
1,386	
1,629	1,744	

Population growth (annual %)	
	

	
1.9	
1.4	1.3	

GNI per capita (Atlas method, current US$)	
	

	
451	
1,191	1,533	

GDP per capita growth (annual %)	
	

	
2.2	
7.5	5.8	

Population living below $1.90 a day (millions)	
	 b	437	309	
	583
Life expectancy at birth, females (years)	
	

	
64	
68	70	

Life expectancy at birth, males (years)	
	

	
62	
66	67	

Youth literacy rate, females (% ages 15–24)	
	

64	 79	79	

Youth literacy rate, males (% ages 15–24)	
	

80	 87	87	

Carbon dioxide emissions (megatons)		
	
1,336	 2,198	2,328	
MONITORING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGs)
				
SDG 1.1 Extreme poverty (% population
below $1.90 a day, 2011 PPP)		 b	27.2	18.8	
	40.8
SDG 2.2 Prevalence of stunting, height for
age (% children under 5)		
	
51	 41	37	
SDG 3.1 Maternal mortality ratio
(modeled estimate, per 100,000 live births)		
	
388	 228	182	
SDG 3.2 Under-5 mortality rate
(per 1,000 live births)		
	
94	 64	53	
SDG 4.1 Primary completion rate
(% relevant age group)	
	

70	 91	91	

SDG 5 Ratio of female to male labor force
participation rate (modeled ILO estimate, %)		
	
43	 40	39	
SDG 5.5 Proportion of seats held by women
in national parliaments (% total)		
	
8	 20	19	
SDG 6.1 Access to safe drinking water
(% population with access)		
	
80	 89	92	
SDG 6.2 Access to basic sanitation facilities
(% population with access)		
	
29	 40	45	
SDG 7.1 Access to electricity (% population)		
	
61	 74	78	
SDG 7.2 Renewable energy consumption
(% total final energy consumption)		
	
53	 42	41	
SDG 17.8 Individuals using the Internet
(% population)	
	

0.5	 7	24	

Note: ILO = International Labour Organization; PPP = purchasing power parity.
a. The most current data available between 2012 and 2015; visit http://data.worldbank.org for data updates.
b.  2002 data.

	

THE REGIONS 	

46

-----------------------Page 50 End-----------------------

FIGURE 12  SOUTH ASIA

IBRD AND IDA LENDING BY THEME • FISCAL 2016
SHARE OF TOTAL OF $8.4 BILLION

6%

Urban Development

7%

Economic Management

7%

Trade and Integration
Social Protection and
Risk Management

6%

Social Development, Gender,
and Inclusion

Environment and Natural
Resources Management

4%

1%

17%

Financial and Private
Sector Development

11%

Human Development

9%
Rural Development

32%

Public Sector Governance

0%

Rule of Law

TABLE 14  SOUTH ASIA

REGIONAL COMMITMENTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR FISCAL 2014–16
	

COMMITMENTS ($ MILLIONS)	

	

IBRD	
IDA	

FY14	 FY15	FY16	

2,077	 2,098	3,640	
8,458	 5,762	4,723	

DISBURSEMENTS ($ MILLIONS)
FY14	 FY15	 FY16

1,165	 1,266	 1,623
4,271	 3,919	 4,462

Portfolio of projects under implementation as of June 30, 2016: $48.5 billion.

Improving road connectivity in Afghanistan

A

fghanistan suffers from significant transportation  infrastructure gaps in
terms of connectivity and accessibility. The total length of  Afghanistan’s
road network is about 123,000 kilometers, but nearly 80 percent are not
all-season roads, meaning that during some seasons, weather conditions can make
them impassable. In addition, about 63 percent of the population is more  than
2 kilometers away from an all-season road. These gaps result in the relative isolation
of parts of the country and negatively affect regional and internal integration and
trade. More than 90 percent of freight and almost 85 percent of intercity passenger
traffic in the country is carried by roads.
To help realize the region’s development potential and alleviate these transportation
challenges, the $250 million Trans-Hindukush Road Connectivity Project is helping
to develop existing mountain crossings into dependable, all-season roads. Currently,
there are only two road crossings over the Hindukush mountain range: the Salang
highway, which carries most of the cross-Hindukush traffic, and an unpaved secondary
crossing between Baghlan and Bamiyan. The project will carry out civil works for the
upgrading of 152 kilometers of the Baghlan-to-Bamiyan road to a paved road, as
well as the rehabilitation of 87 kilometers of the Salang road and tunnel. It will allow
passengers and goods to cross the Hindukush mountain range throughout the year—
a vital transportation need.
For more information on the World Bank’s work in the region, visit
www.worldbank.org/sar.

	

THE REGIONS 	

47

-----------------------Page 51 End-----------------------

Advancing the Global Development
Agenda with New Possibilities for
Engagement

F

iscal 2015 was marked by ambitious agendas and historic global agreements.
In fiscal 2016, expectations were high that the international community
would begin to deliver on its promises, particularly in addressing some of
the most daunting challenges the world has faced and against stiff global
economic headwinds. In this context, the World Bank Group—IBRD, IDA, IFC, and
MIGA—began to envision new possibilities for engagement and collaboration within
this rapidly changing world.

Leveraging leadership
The World Bank Group (WBG) provided transformative leadership in a number of
areas. In partnership with the United Nations and the Islamic Development Bank, the
Bank Group launched a new financing facility for the Middle East and North Africa
region that provides concessional financing to middle-income countries that host
the majority of Syrian refugees, such as Jordan and Lebanon. At the Supporting Syria
and the Region conference in London, WBG President Jim Yong Kim announced a
forthcoming joint initiative with the government of Jordan and the U.K. Department
for International Development to attract international financing in return for work
permits for refugees—an unprecedented proposal that would create mutual benefit
for host communities and the forcibly displaced. With leadership from President
Kim, together with allies such as IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde, the Bank
Group worked this fiscal year to highlight the important economic challenges the
Syrian crisis presents and to demonstrate that it is the collective responsibility of
the global community to take action. Bank Group participation in the first World
Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul signaled its commitment to address protracted
and recurring crises within its mandate and to work to complement humanitarian
and peace-building efforts through development support. A joint statement delivered at the event by seven multilateral development banks (MDBs) announced their
commitment to a collective response to the forced displacement crisis.
The Bank Group leveraged its role as the 2016 chair of the group of MDB heads
to advance the agendas on forced displacement, climate change, and infrastructure,
with the aim of moving beyond global agreements to meaningful operational outcomes. On all three topics, a joint position has been agreed by nine MDBs, along
with concrete commitments to action. The Bank Group has demonstrated leadership in moving progress forward, for instance, by cohosting the first Global Infrastructure Forum as a key follow-up to the Addis Ababa Action Agenda. More broadly,
the Bank Group pushed for the inclusion of new members—the Asian Infrastructure
Investment Bank, New Development Bank, and the Islamic Development Bank—to
the MDB heads group, recognizing that collaboration is the only way forward to
address common challenges.
WBG Spring and Annual Meetings continue to be important global platforms for
convening partners and advancing the agenda on priority issues. The 2016 Spring
Meetings yielded critical commitments in several areas, including forced displacement, the empowerment of girls and women, and development finance. At a flagship event, Queen Rania of Jordan spoke movingly about the human costs of forced
48	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 52 End-----------------------

A participant speaks at the Civil Society Townhall that was held during the 2015 Annual
Meetings of the World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund in Lima, Peru.
(© Franz Mahr/World Bank)

displacement. The event brought together UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and
other key stakeholders to forge a global consensus on the need for an integrated
humanitarian–development response. U.S. First Lady Michelle Obama delivered an
impassioned call for adolescent girls’ education and empowerment, while President
Kim announced a $2.5 billion investment over 5 years in education projects targeting girls. The meetings concluded with a high-level panel featuring Bill Gates, who
shared his vision for the future of development finance and provided a strong
endorsement of the value of IDA in mobilizing development results. Two hundred
parliamentarians who gathered the same week for the annual Conference of the
Parliamentary Network on the WBG and IMF echoed this endorsement. The group’s
leadership recognized the significant role that IDA plays in the economic development of poor countries (see worldbank.org/parliamentarians).

Forging alliances
WBG issue-based advocacy efforts throughout the rest of fiscal 2016 involved an
increasingly diverse set of partners. The institution joined forces with a growing
coalition to elevate investments in the early years of life as a priority issue for countries’ economic growth and competitiveness. At the WBG annual Foundations Advisory Council meeting, global foundation presidents indicated their support for a
newly formed alliance between the Bank Group and UNICEF to advance programmatic interventions and global advocacy efforts on early childhood development.
The Bank Group also launched a global partnership with the Novak Djokovic Foundation, building on its operational collaboration on early childhood development in
Serbia (see worldbank.org/foundations).
In the run-up to the 21st Conference of Parties (COP 21) climate change talks in
Paris, the Bank Group accelerated its engagement with global leaders and the private sector to push for putting a price on carbon pollution. In fiscal 2016, the Bank
Group spearheaded the creation of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, bringing together 20 governments and more than 90 international corporations, which
was launched at the Paris COP 21. This engagement culminated in April 2016 when
President Kim, together with six heads of state and the IMF’s Christine Lagarde,
called for the world to double the level of global emissions covered by carbon pricing by 2020.
Also on the eve of COP 21, the Bank Group forged an alliance with the Vatican,
which has become an influential voice on climate change following the launch of
Pope Francis’ encyclical Laudato Si. With the Vatican’s support and in partnership
ADVANCING THE GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT AGENDA 	

49

-----------------------Page 53 End-----------------------

with a number of organizations, the Bank Group staged “Fiat Lux: Illuminating our
Common Home,” a public art installation in St. Peter’s Square.
As the Bank Group increases its engagement and leadership on the global stage,
it recognizes the critical importance of strengthening country-level engagements. It
made a number of efforts to connect global advocacy with localized efforts in fiscal
2016, and to engage with stakeholders at the country level. For instance, the Bank
Group brought attention to its goal of ending extreme poverty by 2030 on End
Poverty Day, the official UN observance day for the eradication of poverty. President
Kim traveled to Ghana to highlight the country’s success in poverty reduction. The
Bank Group also launched the Poverty in a Rising Africa report, which highlights the
need for quality development data to accurately track progress. End Poverty Day will
remain an important annual inflection point for end poverty advocacy efforts leading up to 2030.
The Bank Group continued to deepen its operational engagement with civil society and faith-based organizations in fiscal 2016, encouraging robust participation in
policy discussions and further exploring operational collaboration (see worldbank
.org/civilsociety).
This fiscal year also marked the third round of consultations with stakeholders on
WBG safeguards. Between August 2015 and March 2016, close to 3,000 stakeholders
in 93 countries were consulted. These safeguards consultations have been the most
extensive conferences undertaken by the Bank Group, part of its commitment to
delivering strong environmental and social policies, which are vital to achieving its
twin goals. Following the conclusion of the official consultations, the 2016 Spring
Meetings Civil Society Policy Forum provided an additional opportunity for civil society organizations to engage the Bank Group on a number of issues, including taxation, financial intermediaries, closing space for civil society, and human rights.
Alongside its own outreach efforts, systematically measuring how key stakeholders perceive its work remains a priority for the Bank Group. As such, it continues
to survey between 7,000 and 10,000 opinion leaders in about 40 client countries
every year through its Country Opinion Survey Program. As the Country Survey data
repeatedly show, WBG engagement makes a difference; those respondents who say
they collaborate with the World Bank are generally more positive about its work and
outreach. It is also noteworthy that significant percentages of opinion leaders continue to report that the Bank must go beyond governments in its outreach efforts to
be more effective. The World Bank’s innovative global engagement work responds
directly to this call (see ­countrysurveys.worldbank.org).

50	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 54 End-----------------------

Sustainably Managing the Bank’s
Internal Operations

T

he World Bank manages its internal operations to safeguard the well-being
of staff as well as the ecosystems, communities, and economies in which it
works. In fiscal 2016, the Bank worked to curtail its impact on the climate
and the environment while attracting, retaining, and leveraging the most
talented and diverse professionals. For information beyond the highlights presented
here, please consult the 2016 Global Reporting Initiative Index (see worldbank.org
/corporateresponsibility).

Our climate
The Bank strives to be a leader in climate action with its comprehensive program to
measure, reduce, offset, and report its greenhouse gas emissions. Such emissions
from Bank facilities, employee air travel, vehicle fleet, and major meetings declined
in fiscal 2015 by 5,000 metric tons. This was due to reduced reliance on diesel generators globally, energy-efficiency upgrades to the office in Chennai, India, and
decreasing electricity use at its Washington, DC, offices. Unavoidable emissions are
offset through the purchase of Voluntary Emission Reduction and Certified Emission
Reduction credits. These included credits from a small-scale hydropower project in
Madagascar—the first run-of-the-river hydropower project and the first carbon
development project in the country. Other credits originated from a Gold Standard–
certified cook stove project in Rwanda and a biogas digester project in Vietnam.

Our places
Increasing the efficiency of how the World Bank runs its business—by managing
resources, diverting waste from landfills, and fostering sustainable staff behavior—
promotes sustainability while decreasing the costs of day-to-day operations.
Maintaining sustainable offices. The Bank has offices in 136 countries, and it
constructs, manages, and upgrades its facilities with sustainability as a guiding principle. To date, five of its overseas offices are certified by the Leadership in Energy
and Environmental Design (LEED) certification program. Six offices currently in
design or under construction are being prepared for certification. Also, upgrades to
10 existing buildings aim to reduce energy costs and increase efficiency. In Washington, DC, where 60 percent of Bank staff are located, three buildings are LEED certified. Additional energy conservation efforts are under way, estimated to reduce
energy consumption by 15 percent after completion of the multiyear project. Work
will include retro-commissioning one facility to identify and adjust less-than-optimal
performance in equipment, lighting, and control systems; installation of photovoltaic
solar panels; and replacement of a cooling tower. The greatest savings are expected
from a new lighting standard to replace current fixtures with LED fixtures.
Implementing smart business practices. The Bank implements strategies for
cost savings and best value in the procurement of goods, services, and consulting
necessary for its operations. It has established procurement review committees,
which have increased the awareness by senior management of the impacts of purchases and enabled the Bank to address its fiscal, social, and environmental impacts
simultaneously.
Efficiencies in material use are also being tracked closely by the Bank. This is most
evident in the use of paper in its Washington, DC, offices. While paper consumption
has decreased by 37 percent since 2007, a recent uptick has been noted due to
	

SUSTAINABLY MANAGING THE BANK’S INTERNAL OPERATIONS 	

51

-----------------------Page 55 End-----------------------

increased use of the Bank’s Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain-of-Custody–
certified print shop. This change guarantees the use of sustainable paper and printing practices in addition to cost savings for the institution. To ensure that the impact
from all paper used is minimal, the Bank’s new paper procurement criteria weighs
sustainability more heavily than cost. As a result, the Bank switched from 10 percent
to 30 percent postconsumer waste paper for premium coated sheets, and maintains
100 percent recycled paper for copiers. The effort has helped to migrate all paper
products to FSC-certified paper.
Virtual collaboration tools help Bank staff to stay connected to one another and
to their clients. In fiscal 2016, staff conducted 339,000 virtual meetings, with 78,700
held in video conference–telepresence rooms, nearly 220,000 online via WebEx, and
41,000 personal conference line sessions. This practice is also proving essential for
staff safety and business continuity while minimizing reliance on business travel.
Simultaneously, choosing sustainable modes of transportation to commute to
work is becoming easier for staff working in the Washington, DC, area. In fiscal 2016,
72 percent of staff working in Washington chose low- to no-carbon footprint options
such as cycling or carpooling, compared to 52 percent in fiscal 2011. To encourage
and accommodate staff driving electric vehicles, dual electric charging stations were
doubled in number to 12 in parking garages.
The Washington, DC, offices also house four cafeterias that cater to the diversity
of staff while safeguarding good health and environmental conscientiousness. In
fiscal 2016, one cafeteria achieved two stars from the Green Restaurant Association
standard. Work is under way to apply this standard to all cafeterias. Additionally,
bottled-water consumption declined by 5 percent in the past fiscal year.
Engaging with our communities. The Bank takes seriously its responsibility as a
neighbor in its host communities. Fiscal 2016 was another record-setting year as
World Bank Group staff donated $2.9 million, which was matched by the institution
and resulted in $5.8 million donated into the Washington, DC, region and the world.
Campaigns in 34 country offices set their own records, raising $188,000—including
the corporate match—for nongovernmental organizations. Staff also responded to
flooding in Myanmar and the earthquake in Ecuador with donations totaling
$40,000. The local grants programs continued to support capital campaigns and
performance measurement. In total, community giving was $6.6 million in fiscal
2016 (see worldbank.org/en/programs/community-connections).

Our people
Representing 174 nationalities, the World Bank’s 11,000 staff are its greatest resource.
The institution’s human resources’ vision is to build a workforce with the right skills
and behaviors in the right places at the right time, and to make the Bank the best
place to work in development.
The past year has seen significant progress, particularly in two areas. The launch
of the Career Framework for World Bank Operations, which outlines career paths for
key roles, now helps staff systematically think about and understand career opportunities across the institution. In addition, the Bank Group completed the Economic
Dividends for Gender Equality (EDGE) certification process for the Washington, DC,
location, achieving the initial level of “EDGE Assess.” The assessment covered five
areas: company culture; leadership development, training, and mentoring; recruitment and promotion; flexible working; and equal pay for equivalent work. The certification is effective for two years, during which time the Bank Group will complete
work on an action plan to address the findings and progress to the second level,
“EDGE Move,” as well as conduct the assessment in non-U.S. locations.
Cultivating staff knowledge. Learning is a key enabler of the Bank’s ability to
deliver solutions to clients, share cutting-edge knowledge, and retain top talent.
While the percentage of staff participating in at least one learning event decreased
slightly in fiscal 2016, expenditures in staff learning increased considerably from
fiscal 2014 and 2015, especially the amount spent on “learning received.” The number of learning activities delivered also increased, although it has not returned to
fiscal 2014 levels. In January 2016, President Kim launched the Open Learning
Campus (OLC) as a single destination to accelerate development solutions through
learning for WBG staff, clients, and global partners (see olc.worldbank.org).

52	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 56 End-----------------------

Resolving workplace conflicts. Promoting a positive and respectful workplace
helps the Bank to retain its talent. Conflict, a natural occurrence in the workplace, is
addressed through the Bank’s Internal Justice System (IJS), which offers informal,
formal, and investigative services. During fiscal 2016, 1,404 cases were opened by
the informal services (Respectful Workplace Advisors, Ombuds, Mediation), 126
cases were opened by the formal services (Peer Review Services, Administrative Tribunal), and 249 cases were opened by the investigative services (Ethics and Business Conduct, Integrity). This year, for the first time in five years, the IJS caseload
dropped. The IJS continued its outreach efforts, with numerous visits to Country
Offices.
Safeguarding staff voice. Staff rights and interests are also represented by the
WBG Staff Association (SA). More than 10,500 staff globally are members of the SA,
with an additional 90 Country Office Staff Associations established around the
globe. In fiscal 2016, SA representatives, elected by staff, advocated for strengthening benefits and support systems to maintain the Bank Group as an employer of
choice; taking action on the outcomes of the staff engagement survey; and implementing fair treatment of staff identified for redeployment or exit as a result of the
strategic staffing exercise.

TABLE 15  WORLD BANK CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY IMPACTS
INDICATOR

FY14

FY15

Absolute GHG emissions
  (metric tons of CO2 equivalent)a, c
GHG emissions/FTE (metric tons of CO2
  equivalent per FTE)a, b, c

165,708 160,484

Global energy use (GJ)
Global energy use intensity (GJ/m2)c
Waste diverted from landfill (%)d
PCW recycled paper use (both copy paper
  and print shop, %)d

519,589 538,966
0.88
0.90
55
56

c

Total community giving ($ millions)

13.4

68

13.5

60

FY16

—

—
—
—
57

$6.0

$6.6

$6.7

11,933
39.6

11,605
41.0

4,033
71
0.86

4,295
70
0.86

4,757
73
0.89

Women managers (%)

37.6

37.8

37.5

Part II managers (%)
Women GF+ (technical level, %)
Sub-Saharan/Caribbean GF+ (%)

40.8
42.5
11.7

41.4
43.1
11.6

43.5
43.9
12.2

3.2

3.2

3.2

3.8

3.6

3.5

Total full-time staff (World Bank)
Non–U.S. based (%)
Short-term consultants/temporaries
  (World Bank, FTEs)
Employee engagement (World Bank, %)
Diversity index (World Bank)

Average days of training per staff in
 headquarters
Average days of training per staff in
  country offices

SDG7; GRI EN3-5;
CDP CC10-11
SDG12; GRI EN23
SDG12; GRI EN1-2

62

12,328
39.6

e

RELATED INDICATORS

SDG13; GRI EN15-17;
CDP CC7-10, 14

GRI EC1
SDG8; GRI LA1

SDG8; GRI LA12

SDG8; GRI LA9

Note: — = not available; CDP = Carbon Disclosure Project; CDP CC = CDP’s Climate Change indicators;
FTE = full-time equivalent (staff); GF+ = salary grade GF or higher, that is, professional; GHG = greenhouse gas;
GJ = gigajoule; GRI = Global Reporting Initiative; GRI EN = GRI’s Environmental indicators; GRI LA = GRI’s Labor
Practices indicators; PCW = postconsumer waste; SDG = Sustainable Development Goal.
a.	Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide and include Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. GHG emissions data
lag by one fiscal year.
b.	 FTE data come from World Bank Human Resources.
c.	 Data are for all World Bank offices worldwide.
d.	 Data are for Washington, DC, offices only.
e.	Total includes giving via the annual Community Connections Campaign (CCC) workplace giving program,
local grants, and disaster relief drives. CCC and disaster relief drives include World Bank Group corporate
matching funds for IBRD/IDA, IFC, and MIGA. This total does not include in-kind donations.

	

SUSTAINABLY MANAGING THE BANK’S INTERNAL OPERATIONS 	

53

-----------------------Page 57 End-----------------------

Ensuring Accountability and Improving
Operations at the World Bank
Accounting for operational performance
To ensure that it holds itself accountable to its clients and shareholders and maintains the highest performance standards in development, the World Bank works
with the Inspection Panel and the Independent Evaluation Group, both of which
operate independently from Bank management.
The Inspection Panel was established in 1993 by the World Bank’s Board of Executive Directors as an independent complaints mechanism for people and communities who believe that they or their environment have been, or are likely to be, harmed
by a project funded by the IBRD or IDA. The panel is composed of three members
from different countries, chosen for their institutional development expertise, and a
small secretariat.
During fiscal 2016, the panel received seven complaints and carried out investigations in Kosovo and Uganda. As part of its role in promoting institutional learning
and improving the development effectiveness of Bank operations, the panel released
a report on involuntary resettlement, the first in a series of reports drawing on lessons from its 22-year caseload. The Inspection Panel’s annual report is available
online at worldbank.org/inspectionpanel.
The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) is an independent unit that reports
directly to the Board of Directors. IEG assesses the results of work across the World
Bank Group (WBG) and offers recommendations for improvement. IEG’s evaluations
contribute to enhancing internal accountability within the WBG. Through its recommendations, IEG also contributes to internal learning and improvements by informing
the formulation of new directions, policies and procedures, and country and sector
strategies for WBG work.
IEG’s most recent annual review of WBG results and performance discusses how
mechanisms for integrating gender into WBG projects and country strategies are
working, and to what extent they provide meaningful information about progress
and results on gender. The analysis aims to inform efforts to strengthen the approach
to documenting, assessing, and evaluating results as part of the rollout of the new
WBG gender strategy. IEG’s annual report is available online at ieg.worldbank.org.

Ensuring integrity and accountability for results
The World Bank ensures the integrity of Bank-financed projects and the efficacy of
internal operations through the work of two of its units—the Integrity Vice Presidency and the Internal Audit Vice Presidency—both of which report directly to the
World Bank Group President.
The Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) is mandated to prevent, deter, investigate, and
manage litigation relating to fraud and corruption in Bank-financed projects. As a
result of INT’s investigations, during fiscal 2016, the Bank sanctioned 73 entities
while preventing about $138 million spread across 20 contracts from being awarded
to companies that had attempted to engage in misconduct. INT also agreed on 18
settlements with companies involved in sanctionable practices and is working with
them to improve their compliance standards. The Bank, together with other partic54	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 58 End-----------------------

ipating multilateral development banks, recognized 140 cross-debarments. Increasingly multijurisdictional and complex, investigations are helping the Bank to tackle
risks associated with certain sectors, high-value contracts, and in fragile states.
INT also advises on the design and implementation of risk mitigation and monitoring tools. This year INT, in cooperation with the government of France and OECD,
organized an international meeting on Security, Corruption, and Development in
which more than 16 members of the World Bank’s International Corruption Hunters
Alliance participated. The high-level meeting focused on tax evasion, illicit financial
flows, transnational bribery, mechanisms and information sharing to strengthen
international cooperation against corruption, and new financial investigative techniques. INT’s annual report is available online at worldbank.org/integrity.
The Internal Audit Vice Presidency (IAD) is an independent, objective assurance
and consulting activity that helps to improve WBG operations. It assists the insti­
tution in accomplishing its objectives by evaluating the effectiveness of WBG
governance, risk management, and control processes. Furthermore, IAD advises
management in developing control solutions, and monitors the implementation of
management’s corrective actions.
In fiscal 2016, IAD conducted targeted assurance reviews on key foundational
business processes and significant elements of the WBG strategy implementation,
and advised management in areas where it could add value to the ongoing change
initiatives. Topics that were covered included the collection and production of
development data, business continuity management, the Access to Information
Policy, the institution-wide Expenditure Review, staff learning, donor reporting,
­
­conflict-of-interest management, and information security. IAD’s annual and quarterly reports are available online at worldbank.org/internalaudit.

The World Bank Policy on Access to Information

T

he World Bank’s Access to Information (AI) Policy became effective on July 1,
2010, and was most recently revised in 2015. The AI Policy remains at the core
of the Bank’s efforts to build a culture of transparency, accountability, and civic
participation across the institution. This approach is invaluable in our consultations
with stakeholders and in our efforts to spur citizen engagement to improve outcomes.
The AI Policy provides public access to any information in the Bank’s possession
that is not on its list of 10 exceptions, allowing the Bank to proactively release a
wealth of information to the public. The AI Policy has provided the framework and
enabling environment for the Bank to be a leader, convener, and partner in global
transparency and openness. For example, in 2016, IDA was ranked sixth on the Aid
Transparency Index for the organization Publish What You Fund.
The AI Policy represents a vital component of the Bank’s open development
agenda, and has been the catalyst for other World Bank transparency initiatives, such
as Open Data, the Open Knowledge Repository, Open Operations, Open Finances, and
Open Contracting. The main entry points to Bank information are the online Projects
and Operations portal, which provides detailed information on lending operations,
and the  Documents and Reports  repository, which contains more than 200,000
documents freely accessible to the public.
For more information, and to submit requests for information to the World Bank,
visit worldbank.org/en/access-to-information.

ENSURING ACCOUNTABILIT Y AND IMPROVING OPERATIONS 	

55

-----------------------Page 59 End-----------------------

The Roles and Resources of the
World Bank
Operating as part of the World Bank Group
The comparative advantage of the World Bank Group (WBG) is its ability to address
complex problems on a global scale. This ability comes from the powerful combination of country depth and global breadth, public and private sector instruments and
relationships, multisector knowledge, and the ability to mobilize and leverage
finance.
Before developing a new partnership strategy with a country client, the Bank
completes a diagnostic (called a Systematic Country Diagnostic), which identifies
the barriers to eliminating extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity in the
country. In concert with partners, experts from Global Practices and Cross-Cutting
Solution Areas work with country-based staff, the International Finance Corporation
(IFC), and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) to prioritize the
Bank Group’s program of financial, analytical, advisory, and convening support for
the country, based on the institution’s comparative advantage and the client’s priorities. This support comes together in the Country Partnership Framework or strategy. At the end of this fiscal year (2 years after the new model was introduced), the
Bank had completed diagnostics in 42 countries and new partnership strategies in
28 countries (see worldbank.org/en/projects-operations/country-strategies).
WBG staff also work on global challenges, including gender, jobs, climate change,
fragility, forced displacement, and others. Cross-Cutting Solution teams drive coordination across the Bank Group, its regions, and technical practices. On climate
change, for example, the Bank Group engages at the global level on carbon pricing
and dialogue about climate; and it helps countries to assess policy and investment
choices to meet their country-level commitments.
The World Bank is accountable to its shareholders and the public through a set
of feedback and accountability mechanisms, including the Corporate Scorecard, the
IDA (International Development Association) Results Monitoring System, and regular
opportunities to discuss progress on operations with its Board of Executive Directors. It continues to refine a set of indicators to track progress on client results and
the effectiveness of its operations to demonstrate progress.

IBRD financial commitments, resources, and services
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) is a global development cooperative owned by its 189 member countries. As the largest development bank in the world, it supports the World Bank Group’s mission by providing
loans, guarantees, risk management products, and advisory services to middleincome and creditworthy low-income countries, as well as by coordinating responses
to regional and global challenges. (See worldbank.org/ibrd.)
In fiscal 2016, new IBRD lending commitments amounted to $29.7 billion for 114
operations. (See the regional lending tables on page 23 and the sector and theme
lending tables on page 62.)

Resources and financial model
To fund development projects in member countries, IBRD finances its loans from its
own equity and from money borrowed in the capital markets through the issuance
of World Bank bonds. IBRD is rated Aaa by Moody’s and AAA by Standard & Poor’s,
56	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 60 End-----------------------

FIGURE 13  IBRD BUSINESS MODEL

Investments

Income

Borrowings

Loans

IDA and trust funds

Equity

Other development activities

and investors view its bonds as high-quality securities. Its funding strategy is aimed
at achieving the best long-term value on a sustainable basis for borrowing members.
Its ability to intermediate the funds it raises in international capital markets to developing member countries is important in helping to achieve its goals.
IBRD issues its securities through both global offerings and bond issues tailored
to the needs of specific markets or investor types. It issues bonds to investors in
various currencies, maturities, and markets, and at fixed and variable terms. It often
opens up new markets for international investors by issuing new products or bonds
in emerging market currencies. IBRD’s annual funding volumes vary from year to
year.
IBRD’s strategy has enabled it to borrow at favorable market terms and pass the
savings on to its borrowing members. Funds not immediately deployed for lending
are held in IBRD’s investment portfolio to provide liquidity for its operations.
In fiscal 2016, IBRD raised U.S. dollar equivalent (USDeq) 63 billion by issuing
bonds in 21 currencies. IBRD’s equity comprises primarily paid-in capital and
reserves. Under the terms of the general and selective capital increase resolutions
approved by the Board of Governors on March 16, 2011, subscribed capital is
expected to increase by $87.0 billion, $5.1 billion of which will be paid in. The subscription periods for selective capital increase and general capital increase are
expected to end in March 2017 and March 2018, respectively, following the approval
by the Board of Executive Directors of extension requests by shareholders. As of
June 30, 2016, the cumulative increase in subscribed capital totaled $73 billion.
Related paid-in amounts in connection with the capital increase were $4.3 billion.
As a cooperative institution, IBRD seeks not to maximize profit but to earn
enough income to ensure its financial strength and sustain its development activities. Of fiscal 2016 allocable net income, the Board of Executive Directors recommended to the Board of Governors the transfer of $497 million to IDA and the
allocation of $96 million to the General Reserve.
As part of IBRD’s lending, borrowing, and investment activities, IBRD is exposed
to market, counterparty, and country credit risks. To manage these risks, IBRD has
put in place a strong risk management framework, which supports management in
its oversight functions. The framework is designed to enable and support IBRD in
achieving its goals in a financially sustainable manner. One summary measure of
IBRD’s risk profile is the ratio of equity to loans, which is closely managed in line with
its financial and risk outlook. This ratio stood at 22.7 percent as of June 30, 2016.

World Bank Green Bonds
Since 2008, IBRD has issued more than $9.1 billion in 18 currencies through benchmark bonds in U.S. dollars, euros, and Australian dollars; smaller bonds in other currencies; and structured green bonds. World Bank Green Bonds have supported 84
climate-related projects in 24 member countries, where they have increased energy
efficiency and helped to develop renewable energy among other impacts.
IBRD issued its first World Bank Green Bond in 2008, making it a pioneer in the
green bond market. Since then, its global issuances to both institutional and retail
		

ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

57

-----------------------Page 61 End-----------------------

investors, as well as its documentation of its green bond process, use of a second
opinion from Cicero, and issuance in 18 currencies have paved the way for the
development of the market to a broad range of types of issuers and markets. The
Bank has also pioneered efforts to harmonize reporting on the impact of green
bonds by other multilateral institutions as an important tool for investors to evaluate
the nonfinancial benefits of their investments.  (See treasury.worldbank.org/cmd
/htm/WorldBankGreenBonds.html.)

Risk management products
IBRD offers financial products that allow clients to efficiently fund their development
programs and manage risks related to currencies, interest rates, commodity prices,
and disasters. In fiscal 2016, the Bank’s Treasury executed USDeq 1.1 billion in hedging transactions, including USDeq 790 million in currency conversions and USDeq
349 million in interest rate conversions, to assist borrowers in managing currency
and interest rate risks over the life of their IBRD loans. The Bank helped Uruguay to
limit its exposure to future oil price increases with the execution of a $330 million
hedge transaction, the first time that the Bank has entered into a derivative contract
with a member country to manage exposure to commodity price volatility. Disaster
risk management transactions included a $43 million transaction to renew coverage
of the Pacific Disaster Insurance Program, which provides protection against earthquakes and tropical cyclones in the Cook Islands, the Marshall Islands, Samoa, Tonga,
and Vanuatu, on behalf of IDA. The Bank’s Treasury executed swap transactions
totaling USDeq 12.5 billion to manage the risks of IBRD’s balance sheet and USDeq
1.5 billion to manage the risks of IDA’s balance sheet. (See treasury.worldbank.org
/bdm/htm/risk_financing.html.)

IDA financial commitments, resources, and services
The International Development Association (IDA) is the world’s largest multilateral
source of concessional financing for the poorest countries. It provides concessional
development credits, grants, and guarantees in support of these countries’ efforts
to increase economic growth, reduce poverty, and improve the living conditions
of the poor. In fiscal 2016, 77 countries were eligible for IDA assistance. In addition,
India, which graduated from IDA in fiscal 2014, will receive transitional support on
an exceptional basis through the IDA17 period, which covers fiscal 2015–17. (See
worldbank.org/ida.)
In fiscal 2016, new IDA lending commitments amounted to $16.2 billion for
161 operations, including $14.4 billion in credits, $1.3 billion in grants, and $500
million in guarantees. (See the regional breakdown tables on page 23 and the sector
and theme breakdown tables on page 63.)

Resources and financial model
IDA is funded largely by contributions from developed and middle-income partner
countries. Additional financing comes from transfers from IBRD’s net income, grants
from IFC, and borrowers’ repayments of earlier IDA credits. Development partners
meet every three years to replenish IDA’s funds and review its policies. Administrative expenses are recovered primarily through service charges paid by recipient
countries.
Under the IDA17 Replenishment, total resources amount to 37.7 billion in Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) (equivalent to $56.8 billion). (This figure reflects updates
made after the replenishment discussions.) IDA’s commitment authority is denominated in SDRs. The U.S. dollar equivalents presented here are based on the reference
exchange rate for IDA17 and provided for illustrative purposes.
A total of 51 partners, 4 of which are new contributing partners, are providing
SDR 17.3 billion ($26.1 billion) in grants, of which SDR 0.6 billion ($930 million) is the
grant element from concessional partner loan contributions. Partners are providing
SDR 2.9 billion ($4.4 billion) in concessional partner loans or SDR 2.2 billion ($3.4
billion) excluding the grant element of the loans. Contributing partners are also

58	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 62 End-----------------------

FIGURE 14  IDA BUSINESS MODEL
Repayment of concessional
loans from members

Loans and grants

WBG transfers

IDA

Members
• Equity contributions
• Concessional loans
• Compensation for
service charges

Loan repayments

Recipients

Service and commitment
charges and interest on
hard-term loans

Administrative expenses, net

expected to provide SDR 3.0 billion ($4.5 billion) in compensation for debt relief
under the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative. Credit reflows (principle and interest
repayments) from IDA recipients will provide SDR 9.9 billion ($15.0 billion). This
figure includes SDR 1.9 billion ($2.8 billion) from contractual accelerated repayments of outstanding credits from IDA graduates and voluntary prepayments. Transfers from IBRD and IFC, including associated investment income, amount to SDR 1.9
billion ($2.9 billion). These transfers are approved annually by IBRD’s Board of Governors and IFC’s Board of Directors, based on evaluations of the institutions’ annual
results and financial capacities.
The IDA17 commitment authority was increased by $5 billion this fiscal year. Of
these funds, $3.9 billion will go to the establishment of the new Scale-Up Facility for
the remainder of the IDA17 period, $900 million will replenish the Crisis Response
Window, and $200 million will support assistance to refugees in the Middle East and
North Africa. This one-time measure was financed by resources freed up through
the more efficient use of IDA’s liquidity.
The replenishment process for IDA18, which covers fiscal 2018–20, is under way.
It culminates in December 2016.

IDA17 Replenishment
Anchored in the World Bank Group Strategy, the ambitious IDA17 policy package
includes a range of policy commitments and performance indicators under IDA’s
four-tier Results Measurement System. The overarching theme of maximizing development impact focuses on helping IDA countries better leverage private resources,
public resources, and knowledge, with greater emphasis on both results and costFIGURE 15  IDA REPLENISHMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
26.4

25.1

26.1

14.9

14.6
6.3

3.9

6.3
n.a.

IDA15 FY09–11

3.0

5.3

3.2

4.5

3.5

n.a.

IDA16 FY12–14

IDA17 FY15–17

Donor contributions
IDA internal resources
Concessional partner loans (net of grant element)
IBRD and IFC transfers
Donor compensation for MDRI debt forgiveness
a

b

Note: n.a. = not applicable. Data reflect final agreed replenishment reports and exchange rates used during the
replenishment discussions.
a. IDA internal resources include principal repayments, charges, and investment income.
b. Net of structural financing gap.

		

ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

59

-----------------------Page 63 End-----------------------

TABLE 16  TOP-10 COUNTRY BORROWERS: FISCAL 2016
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS

IBRD		IDA	
COUNTRY	

Peru	
India	
Kazakhstan	
China	
Indonesia	
Ukraine	
Egypt, Arab Rep.	
Iraq	
Poland	
Colombia	

COMMITMENT	COUNTRY	

COMMITMENT

2,850	Ethiopia	
2,820	Vietnam	
2,058	Bangladesh	
1,982	Pakistan	
1,700	Nigeria	
1,560	India	
1,550	
Tanzania	
1,550	Kenya	
1,504	
Congo, Dem. Rep.	
1,400	Ghana	

1,862
1,670
1,557
1,460
1,075
1,025
864
646
600
500

Note: Amounts for multicountry operations are allocated across borrowers.

TABLE 17  ACTIVE PORTFOLIO NET COMMITMENTS
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, AS OF JUNE 30, 2016
REGION	

Africa	
East Asia and Pacific	
Europe and Central Asia	
Latin America and the Caribbean	
Middle East and North Africa	
South Asia	
Total	

IBRD	

IDA	TOTAL

5.5	 50.5	56.1
21.8	
10.6	
32.3
24.8	
2.4	
27.2
26.9	
1.9	
28.8
13.7	
0.8	
14.5
17.6	
30.9	
48.5
110.2	

97.1	207.3

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.

effectiveness. The four IDA17 special themes—inclusive growth, gender equality,
climate change, and fragile and conflict-affected states—aim to strengthen IDA’s
engagement on frontier issues at the global, regional, and country levels.

Budgeting effectively to support increased
client demand
During the fiscal 2017–19 planning period, the World Bank Group will grow and
improve client services in order to increase support to its clients’ efforts at achieving
the Sustainable Development Goals, implementing the Financing for Development
objectives, and responding to the impacts of climate change. At the same time, the
Bank Group will need to respond to the immediate needs of clients as they adjust to
a weaker global economy. As the Bank Group leverages the effect of recent measures taken to increase revenues and manage costs, the budget environment is
expected to improve going forward. The Bank Group is making further progress on
its financial sustainability targets, and leveraging private sector resources and solutions where possible.
The World Bank Group aligns its resources using a streamlined “W” process for
strategic planning, budgeting, and performance review. The five points of the “W”
represent specific decision points in the process.
W1: Senior management sets strategic planning priorities for the World Bank Group.
W2: Management at the vice presidential unit (VPU) level reviews and responds to
corporate priorities.
W3: Senior management refines the guidance on priorities and determines the
programs and three-year, unit-level budget envelopes for each institution
within the World Bank Group.
W4: VPU-level management develops work programs and staffing plans in response
to determined priorities and budget envelopes.
W5: Final funding decisions conclude the planning for the subsequent three fiscal
years. The Board confirms and formally approves the VPU budget envelopes
and work programs.
60	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 64 End-----------------------

Adapting to challenges in a global
operating environment
Low interest rates, potential financial market dislocations, weak commodity prices,
the slowing of growth in key countries and the risks of wider economic slowdown,
and geopolitical tensions and political uncertainties have created a challenging
operating environment for the World Bank. These challenges affect the Bank’s client
countries as well, many of which are oil or commodity exporters facing fiscal pressures. Several client countries also face reduced trade, capital outflows, and potential
turbulence in the event of policy normalization in developed economies. All countries need to sustain reforms for long-term structural growth and employment
creation.
The impact on the Bank is felt mainly through increased demand for long-term
structural support from a wide range of client countries. The Bank seeks to support
all clients’ developmental needs in line with strategic priorities while prudently managing its capital and funding costs. It also continues to monitor operational risks,
including the growing threat of data and information security breaches and external
events that can affect its business continuity and the physical security of its staff.
As the world’s leading multilateral development institution, the Bank continues
to innovate and adapt to meet the needs of individual countries, but also to address
the needs of global public goods. Climate change, pandemics, and forced displacement are high priorities. To address them and other challenges, the Bank is developing innovative forms of financing in partnership with the public and private
sectors.
The emergence of new multilateral development institutions creates both opportunities and challenges for creative partnerships, and requires fresh thinking about
the Bank’s financial structure. The “Forward Look,” an internal strategic exercise
launched earlier this year to deliberate the medium- to long-term future of the institution, is examining demand for the Bank’s services and the ways the institution
manages its financial capacity across the World Bank Group to meet these demands,
with a focus on optimal leverage and mobilization.

		

ROLES AND RESOURCES OF THE WORLD BANK 	

61

-----------------------Page 65 End-----------------------

TABLE 18  IBRD OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: FISCAL 2012–16
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
INDICATOR	

FY12	 FY13	FY14	FY15	 FY16

Commitments	
20,582	 15,249	 18,604	23,528	 29,729
  Of which development policy lending	
10,547a	7,282a	 7,997	7,207	13,210
Gross disbursements	
19,777	 16,030	
18,761	 19,012	 22,532
  Of which development policy lending	
9,052	
5,972	
9,786	 8,935	 12,068
Principal repayments (including prepayment)	
11,970	
9,470	
9,805	 9,005	
9,327
Net disbursements	
7,806	
6,361	
8,956	 10,007	 13,204
Loans outstanding	
136,325	 143,776	 154,021	 157,012	 169,655
Undisbursed loans	
62,916	 61,306	 58,449	 60,211	 65,909
Allocable income	
998	
968	
769	
686	
593
Usable equity	
37,636	
39,711	 40,467	 40,195	 39,424
Equity-to-loans ratio (%)	
27.0	
26.8	
25.7	
25.1	
22.7
a. This figure from past World Bank annual reports was revised to include development policy
guarantee commitments.

TABLE 19  IBRD LENDING BY THEME AND SECTOR: FISCAL 2012–16
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME	

Economic Management	
Environment and Natural Resources
 Management	
Financial and Private Sector Development	
Human Development	
Public Sector Governance	
Rule of Law	
Rural Development	
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion	
Social Protection and Risk Management	
Trade and Integration	
Urban Development	
Theme Total	

FY12	 FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16

1,160	

353	

461	

715	

1,340

2,429	
3,313	
2,672	
2,754	
98	
1,921	
405	
2,244	
1,437	
2,150	

1,308	
2,700	
1,534	
2,082	
448	
1,771	
753	
2,025	
1,031	
1,243	

1,231	
5,102	
1,803	
3,441	
244	
1,844	
713	
1,230	
403	
2,132	

1,836	
6,214	
1,916	
1,508	
730	
1,745	
1,165	
3,357	
838	
3,503	

3,758
6,838
2,652
4,745
406
2,974
449
2,563
1,555
2,447

20,582	

15,249	

18,604	

23,528	

29,729

SECTOR	

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	
Education	
Energy and Mining	
Finance	
Health and Other Social Services	
Industry and Trade	
Information and Communications	
Public Administration, Law, and Justice	
Transportation	
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection	

1,163	
851	
801	
797	
547
1,296	 1,065	 1,123	1,477	1,754
2,848	
1,208	
2,356	
3,150	
4,557
1,410	 1,609	 1,293	 3,404	2,634
2,489	
1,822	
1,598	
2,949	
2,399
713	
747	
1,054	
1,653	
3,426
94	
102	
262	
77	
186
5,381	
4,405	
4,806	
4,318	
5,775
3,379	 2,600	 4,032	 3,086	4,330
1,807	
840	
1,279	
2,616	
4,121

Sector Total	

20,582	

15,249	

18,604	

23,528	

Total World Bank Lending (IBRD + IDA)	

35,335	

31,547	

40,843	

42,495	 45,900

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.

62	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

29,729

-----------------------Page 66 End-----------------------

TABLE 20  IDA OPERATIONAL SUMMARY: FISCAL 2012–16
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
INDICATOR	

FY12	 FY13	FY14	FY15	 FY16

Commitments	
14,753	 16,298	
  Of which development policy lending	
1,827	
1,954	
Gross disbursements	
11,061	
11,228	
  Of which development policy lending	
2,092	
1,662	
Principal repayments (including prepayment)	
4,023	
3,845	
Net disbursements	
7,037	
7,371	
Credits outstanding	
123,576	 125,135	
Undisbursed credits	
37,144	 39,765	
Undisbursed grants	
6,161	
6,436	
Development grant expenses	
2,062	
2,380	

22,239	18,966	 16,171
2,489	 2,597	
1,890
13,432	 12,905	
13,191
2,644	 2,005	
2,564
3,636	 4,085	
4,327
9,878	 8,820	
8,806
136,011	 130,878	 136,735
46,844	 47,288	 49,476
6,983	 6,637	
6,099
2,645	
2,319	
1,232

TABLE 21  IDA LENDING BY THEME AND SECTOR: FISCAL 2012–16
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
THEME	

FY12	 FY13	FY14	FY15	FY16

Economic Management	
Environment and Natural Resources
Management	
Financial and Private Sector Development	
Human Development	
Public Sector Governance	
Rule of Law	
Rural Development	
Social Development, Gender, and Inclusion	
Social Protection and Risk Management	
Trade and Integration	
Urban Development	
Theme Total	

133	

131	

495	

430	

546

1,568	 1,163	2,652	1,329	 1,122
1,430	
1,680	
2,926	
2,282	
2,385
2,289	
2,814	
3,389	
4,128	
2,262
1,281	
1,708	
1,811	
1,325	
1,124
28	
142	
47	
95	
61
3,521	
2,880	
4,593	
3,337	
3,131
842	
556	
352	
570	
534
1,258	
1,931	
2,356	
3,220	
2,882
435	
1,676	
1,239	
889	
698
1,967	
1,618	
2,380	
1,362	
1,424
14,753	

16,298	

22,239	

18,966	

16,171

SECTOR	

Agriculture, Fishing, and Forestry	
Education	
Energy and Mining	
Finance	
Health and Other Social Services	
Industry and Trade	
Information and Communications	
Public Administration, Law, and Justice	
Transportation	
Water, Sanitation, and Flood Protection	

1,971	
1,261	
2,257	
2,230	
1,657
1,663	 1,666	2,334	 2,057	1,309
2,151	
2,071	
4,333	
1,360	
2,645
354	 446	 691	 649	458
1,701	
2,541	
1,755	
3,698	
3,303
638	
685	
753	
659	
729
63	
126	
119	
245	
61
3,347	
3,586	
4,031	
3,862	
2,836
1,066	 2,535	 2,914	2,064	2,039
1,798	
1,381	
3,052	
2,144	
1,132

Sector Total	

14,753	

16,298	

22,239	

18,966	

16,171

Total World Bank Lending (IBRD + IDA)	

35,335	

31,547	

40,843	

42,495	 45,900

Note: Numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.

OPERATIONAL SUMMARY AND WORLD BANK LENDING 	

63

-----------------------Page 67 End-----------------------

Committed to Results

T

he World Bank helps to promote sustainable development in partner countries by
providing financing, sharing knowledge, and working with the public and private
sectors. Delivering integrated solutions to help countries address their development
challenges requires a focus on results. In recent years, the World Bank has made
important contributions across many areas to support development results achieved by its
partner countries, as shown in these selected examples from around the world. The accompanying map shows the current borrowing eligibility of member countries. For more information, visit worldbank.org/results.

1

Argentina: Eliminated 5,052 tons of
ozone-depleting potential by reducing
its consumption of chlorofluorocarbons,
halons, and carbon tetrachloride
between 1997 and 2010.

8

China: In Fujian Province, over 5,400 km
of rural roads were rehabilitated between
2011 and 2014, reducing travel time to
access health services and markets by
42 percent.

2

Bangladesh: From 2012 to 2015,
3.7 million people in rural areas were
provided with access to electricity from
renewable sources through a project that
connects approximately 50,000 solar
home systems per month.

9

Colombia: In Bogotá, the number of
people at risk from natural disasters
declined from 604,000 to 236,972 as
a result of the Disaster Vulnerability
Reduction Project.

10

3

Bolivia: More than 16,000 families have
benefited from a project to improve
access to markets for smallholder farmers
in rural areas through self-managed
grassroots organizations.

Democratic Republic of Congo:
1.2 million people in urban areas were
provided with access to improved
drinking water from 2014 to 2015.

11

Arab Republic of Egypt: As a result of
the Vehicle Scrapping and Recycling
Program of Activities, over 130,000
tons of carbon dioxide emissions were
avoided in 2013 and 2014.

12

Ethiopia: Access to agriculture extension
services rose from 4 million to 13 million
between 2005 and 2015.

13

Grenada: Regulatory reforms helped
Grenada to increase tourism revenue by
nearly 35 percent from 2013 to 2014.

14

Guatemala: A rural economic
development program enhanced
the capacities of 20,000 small-scale
producers and small businesses, 90
percent of whom were indigenous
peoples.

15

Haiti: 5,571 medical personnel and
community workers were trained
between 2010 and 2013 as part of the
Cholera Emergency Response Project.

4

5

Bosnia and Herzegovina: From mid2014 to end-2015, more than 160,000
people benefited from rehabilitated
infrastructure in flood-affected areas,
while about 94,000 people received
construction materials and other
emergency goods.
Brazil: The Amazon Region Protected
Areas Project has helped to protect
around 60 million hectares of rainforest
since 2012.

6

Cambodia: 80 percent of babies
nationwide were delivered by trained
personnel at health facilities by the end
of 2015, up from 39 percent in 2008.

7

Cameroon: The number of people in
urban areas with access to all-season
roads within a 500-meter range
increased from 31,000 to 435,000
between 2009 and 2015.

64	

THE WORLD BANK ANNUAL REPORT 2016

-----------------------Page 68 End-----------------------

Russian Federation

Russian Fed.

Poland Belarus
Kazakhstan
Ukraine
Mongolia
Moldova
27
Romania
Georgia
Uzbekistan Kyrgyz Rep.
Bulgaria
4
Azerbaijan
Armenia
8
Turkmenistan Tajikistan
Turkey
Syrian
China
Islamic
Tunisia
Afghanistan
Lebanon A.R.
Rep.
West Bank and Gaza
Iraq of Iran
Bhutan
Pakistan
Jordan
Nepal
Arab
Libya
21
Rep. of

Morocco
Algeria

15
14
Guatemala
El Salvador

20

Haiti
Jamaica
Belize
Honduras

Cabo
Verde

Nicaragua

Costa Rica
Panama

R.B. de Guyana
9 Venezuela
Suriname
Colombia

Ecuador

5
Peru

India

Mauritania
Mali

Niger

Angola

Namibia

Uruguay

Antigua
and
Barbuda

St. Kitts
and Nevis

R. B. de Venezuela

19

Zimbabwe

Madagascar

South
Africa

Palau
Kiribati

22
Indonesia

16

Timor-Leste

Papua
New
Guinea

13
Grenada

Trinidad
& Tobago

Kenya: As of 2015, 2.6 million individuals
are benefiting from cash transfer support
through the National Safety Net Program,
up from 1.7 million in 2013.

21 Pakistan: 7.7 million individuals across

Nicaragua: 458,557 people—more than
half were women—benefited from a
project to strengthen property rights
through improved land titling and
registry services from 2012 to 2015.
the country have received financing
from the Pakistan Poverty Alleviation
Fund, with 61 percent of the loans going
to women.

22 Papua New Guinea: 35 percent of

young people who graduated from an
on-the-job training program since 2011
received an offer of a paid job.
23 Philippines: By 2015, a total of 4.4

million poor households with children
were enrolled in a conditional cash
transfer program that provides incentives
for parents to invest in the health and
education of their children.

Kiribati
Tuvalu

Vanuatu

Fiji

Tonga

Poland

Croatia

Solomon
Islands

Samoa

28

Mauritius

4

20

Nepal: Over 400 micro-hydropower 
plants were built between 2007 and
2014, providing 150,000 rural households
with access to reliable and clean power.

Malaysia

Marshall Islands

Federated States
of Micronesia

6

Maldives

Lesotho

Indonesia: A National Community
Empowerment Program improved
access to microcredit, benefiting more
than 670,000 people with revolving
loan funds.

Mauritania: Government tax administration
capacity was strengthened, increasing the
tax revenue collected by 36 percent from
2011 to 2014.

Sri
Lanka

23

Philippines

Mozambique

Dominica
St. Lucia
St. Vincent and
the Grenadines

18

Cambodia

25

Swaziland

Dominican
Republic

Argentina

17

Lao
29
P.D.R.
Thailand Vietnam

2

Zambia Malawi

Botswana

Paraguay

1

Bangladesh
Myanmar

10

Brazil

Bolivia

16

Eritrea Rep. of
Yemen
Djibouti

Sudan

Senegal
30
Chad
The Gambia
Burkina
Guinea-Bissau
Faso
7
12
Guinea
Nigeria
Central South
Côte
Ethiopia
Sierra Leone
African Sudan
d’Ivoire
Somalia
Liberia
Cameroon Rep.
Ghana
17 26
24 Uganda
Togo
Rep. of
Kenya
Gabon
Benin
Congo Rwanda
Equatorial Guinea
Seychelles
Dem. Rep. Burundi
São Tomé and Príncipe
of Congo
Tanzania Comoros

3

Chile

19

11

Egypt

18

Bulgaria Romania Ukraine

Mexico

Rep. of
Korea

Bosnia and Serbia
Herzegovina
Kosovo
Montenegro
Albania
FYR
Macedonia

24 Rwanda: Support to the development

of hillside horticulture and food crop
production created 33,000 jobs between
2010 and 2015.
25 Sri Lanka: School-based teacher

development programs have benefited
about 186,500 teachers since 2012.
26 Tanzania: 8 million rural Tanzanians

gained access to clean and safe water by
2015, a 75 percent increase from 2007.
27 Uzbekistan: From 2012 to 2015, 3,500

households in Bukhara and 11,000 in
Samarkand were connected to public
sewer systems.
28 Vanuatu: 521 homes obtained access

to grid-based electricity between
September 2014 and December 2015.

IBRD 40125R2
AUGUST 2016

29 Vietnam: Between 2008 and 2014,

more than 93,400 farmers were trained
in sustainable farming techniques
and new technologies, which when
applied, helped the farmers to realize
an average of 22 percent increase in
the value of sales.
30 Republic of Yemen: From 2012 to 2015,

101,042 people accessed improved
primary health care services; 121,193
people had access to improved water
sources; and 41,039 people had access
to improved sanitation facilities.

-----------------------Page 69 End-----------------------

Annual Report 2016
Financial Statements incorporated by reference. The Management’s
Discussion and Analysis and Audited Financial Statements of IBRD
and IDA (“Financial Statements”) shall be deemed to be incorporated
in, and to form part of, this Annual Report. The Financial Statements
may be accessed at worldbank.org/financialresults.
Complete IBRD and IDA financial, lending, and organizational information is
available on the World Bank Annual Report 2016 website: worldbank.org
/annualreport.
 The World Bank Annual Report 2016 (eBook) in 8 languages
 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Fiscal 2016 Index
 Additional World Bank Fiscal 2016 Information:
−
−
−
−

Lending Data
New Operations Approved
Income by Region
IBRD and IDA Organizational Information

 World Bank Fiscal 2016 Lending Presentation (PowerPoint)

World Bank Annual Report 2016 Team
Editorial and Web Production Coordinator
Daniel Nikolits

Print Production Coordinator
Denise Bergeron

Design and Production Coordinator
Susan Graham

Design, Typesetting, and Printing
Designed by Naylor Design; typeset by BMWW;
printed by Professional Graphics Printing Co.

Advisory Editors
Nancy Lammers, Janet Sasser, John Felton,
Barbara Karni

© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development / The World Bank
1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: 202-473-1000; Internet: www.worldbank.org

Attribution—Please cite the work as follows: World Bank.
2016. World Bank Annual Report 2016. Washington,
DC: World Bank. doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0852-4.
License: Creative Commons Attribution–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO (CC BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO).

Some rights reserved
1 2 3 4 19 18 17 16

Noncommercial—You may not use this work for
commercial purposes.

This work is a product of the staff of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors, denominations, and other
information shown on any map in this work do not imply
any judgment on the part of The World Bank concerning
the legal status of any territory or the endorsement or
acceptance of such boundaries.
Nothing herein shall constitute or be considered
to be a limitation upon or waiver of the privileges
and immunities of The World Bank, all of which are
specifically reserved.

No Derivative Works—You may not alter, transform, or
build upon this work.

Rights and Permissions
This work is available under the Creative
Commons Attribution–NonCommercial–
NoDerivatives 3.0 IGO license (CC
BY-NC-ND 3.0 IGO) http://creativecommons.org/licenses/
by-nc-nd/3.0/igo. Under the Creative Commons–
NonCommercial–NoDerivatives license, you are free
to copy, distribute, and transmit this work, for
noncommercial purposes only, under the following
conditions:

Third-party content—The World Bank does not
necessarily own each component of the content
contained within the work. The World Bank therefore
does not warrant that the use of any third-party-owned
individual component or part contained in the work will
not infringe on the rights of those third parties. The risk
of claims resulting from such infringement rests solely
with you. If you wish to re-use a component of the work,
it is your responsibility to determine whether permission
is needed for that re-use and to obtain permission from
the copyright owner. Examples of components can
include, but are not limited to, tables, figures, or images.
All queries on rights and licenses should be addressed
to the Publishing and Knowledge Division, The World
Bank, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC 20433, USA;
fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail: pubrights@worldbank.org.
ISBN: 978-1-4648-0852-4
eISBN: 978-1-4648-0860-9
doi: 10.1596/978-1-4648-0852-4

-----------------------Page 70 End-----------------------

In recent years, World Bank operations
have supported clients to


Reach 14.9 million people, and micro-, small, and medium enterprises
with financial services

 Provide

2.0 million hectares of land with irrigation services

 Construct or rehabilitate

113,600 kilometers of roads

4,287 megawatts’ capacity of conventional energy and
2,461 megawatts’ capacity of renewable energy

 Generate

 Recruit or train
 Provide

6.6 million teachers

377 million people with essential health, nutrition, and

population services
 Cover

32.7 million beneficiaries by social safety net programs

 Provide

42.2 million people with access to an improved water source

 Provide

16.6 million people with access to improved sanitation

facilities

588 million tons of CO2 equivalent emissions annually with
the support of special climate instruments

 Reduce

 Support

36 countries in institutionalizing disaster risk reduction

as a national priority

The World Bank comprises the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA).
It provides financing, knowledge, and convening services that help its clients
address many of their most important development challenges. But what
makes the World Bank unique is its global reach to promote growth,
inclusiveness, and sustainability. The selected global results represented
above were reported by World Bank clients with the support of Bankfinanced operations between 2013 and 2015.

worldbank.org/annualreport

SKU 210852

-----------------------Page 71 End-----------------------

