2016 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.1 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT www.goldcar.com Designed and made by: Lavola INDEX 06 THE PEOPLE BEHIND OUR SUCCESS p.61 05 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT THROUGH A FOCUS ON 04 10 SUSTAINABILITY p.55 OUR IMPACT GLOBAL ON THE REPORTING COMMUNITY INITIATIVE’S TABLE p.47 03 OF CONTENTS 09 p.96 COMMITMENT GOLDCAR’S TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY CUSTOMER REPORT SATISFACTION 02 FOR 2016 08 p.33 p.93 COMMITMENT SUPPLIER TOWARDS RELATIONSHIPS CORPORATE SOCIAL p.89 RESPONSIBILITY 01 WHO p.23 07 ENVIRONMENTAL ARE WE FOOTPRINT p.13 p.75 p.6 2016 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION p.7 LETTER FROM THE CEO In 2016, Goldcar has continued its growth business, and for this reason we have This report, again prepared using programme, allowing customers to throughout Europe and globally. We invested €5.3 million in IT in 2016. This the Global Reporting Initiative’s neutralize their emissions by supporting have opened a total of 17 new offices, 8 is a significant increase compared to the G4 Guidelines, allows us to explain a clean energy project. of which are in Italy, 1 in France and 1 in €3.9 million that was invested last year. Goldcar’s progress in the main areas Spain, thus consolidating our presence in This growth was accompanied by the of sustainability and to improve Finally, we have improved transparency these three countries. In addition, we are employment of specialised staff, thanks transparency with stakeholders. with customers during the booking now operating in Mexico, Romania and to whom we have been able to develop process, making service conditions the Netherlands for the first time thanks our newest technological solutions. Our team of professionals, which clearer and more accessible during the to our franchisees. has increased by 28% in 2016, plays purchasing process. Goldcar’s investment in IT will continue an important role in our success as a Our presence at the main airports of the to be one of our priorities in the coming profitable and responsible company. We encourage you to read this Goldcar countries where we operate has been years, with projects such connected cars In 2016, we put the focus on the Corporate Social Responsibility report crucial for Goldcar’s significant growth and mobility programs. professional development of all for 2016 which we believe will be of in recent years. These strategic locations employees. We launched a new great interest to you and we would allow us to offer the best services to The three pillars of our business strategy e-learning platform with valuable also like to thank Investindustrial1, our customers since we will continue are geographical expansion, excellent training and knowledge. This has not our majority shareholder, for their expanding our presence at others main customer service, and investing in new only allowed them to acquire new leadership and support in producing airports in the future. technologies. In 2016 we have reinforced skills, but also improved their work-life this report. our commitment to all of them, and this balance by minimizing work trips. One of our main goals for 2016 has has led to an increase in our revenue of been to improve customer satisfaction 13.6% as compared to 2015. In addition, we have launched our Plan by implementing new technological for equal opportunities and diversity solutions. Last year, we launched We are pleased to see our efforts of gender, race and culture for 2016the Net Promoter Score (NPS) index, leading to profit maximisation, but we 2018, aimed at achieving effective which allowed us to measure customer do not forget that our growth needs equality in the workplace, and our satisfaction accurately. In 2016, we to be responsible and sustainable. For Plan for the Integration of People with Juan Carlos Azcona have continued the digitalization of this reason, every year we deepen our Disabilities. CEO our business by launching a new queue commitment to the UN Global Compact, jcazcona@goldcar.com management system and the Key’n Go a United Nations set of principles that We also are aware of the effects that service, allowing customers to pick a car guide businesses in creating better our business has on the environment without coming to one of our desks. impacts. Our collaboration with one and the impacts of our fleet on climate In addition, we have further improved of the most important corporate social change, and for that reason in 2016 Goldcar’s App and we have launched a responsibility initiatives on a global we have continued promoting Goldcar 1The term “Investindustrial” in this new application allowing a faster review level has encouraged us to take specific Blue, our fleet offering electric, hybrid document has been used only for practical ease of reading and does not of damages upon vehicle return. actions to improve our sustainability and GLP vehicles. In addition, we intend to imply any specific reference performance. For this reason, we want have carried out new initiatives to to a legal definition of any activity of control by any company with respect to At Goldcar we are aware that innovation to firmly renew our commitment to the lower our environmental impact, such other companies and should be read as and technology are key to a successful referring to, where the context requires, UN Global Compact for another year. as Goldcar’s carbon emission offset to the applicable advisory company or investment subsidiary entity. p.8 2016 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.9 LETTER FROM THE CFO 2016 has been another successful year gain market share and offer a better strong appetite for Goldcar’s credit. The In addition, as part of our efforts to in terms of operational and financial customer experience to our clients. majority of RCF lenders have increased improve of our internal control systems performance. The company managed As part of our growth strategy, in their exposure and new lenders have and Corporate Governance we hired more than 1.2 million contracts and more 2016 we reinforced our presence in been introduced, attracted by the external advisors to implement a GRC than 9.8 million rental days throughout Italy opening 8 additional offices and strong credit profile of Goldcar. (Governance, Risks and Compliance) the 6 countries in which we operate reaching 19 offices across the main system. Their recommendations were with our own network. Revenues hotspots locations in the countries. In The management of the fleet assets presented to our Board of Directors excluding fuel reached €238.9m, 13.6% addition, we continued increasing our is another key aspect for Goldcar. In and are now implemented across the above last year on a like-for-like basis, market share in France, Greece and 2016, we signed the first European-wide organisation. excluding Goldcar Fleet division sold in Croatia. As a result, we observed a agreement with a major OEM (PSA) and 2015. The strong growth was fuelled decrease on the weight of Spain and we are proud to own one of the youngest After a successful 2016, I am excited to by growth in tourism in Southern Portugal over the total group. fleets in the market, with an average age inform you that we have very exciting Europe, market share gain, and the of below nine months in 2016. plans for 2017 including strong international expansion. In 2017, we continue to work in growth in all the markets where we this regard, growing throughout the Our clear focus on improving the currently operate, office openings in Growth has been accompanied by an Mediterranean, and during the first customer experience saw us increase Turkey and France, new technology increase of EBITDA which amounted half of the year we opened five offices our investment in Technology to innovations and the rollout of our to €129.2m, an annual increase of in Turkey, our first corporate country provide a unique and first-class car mid-tier brand Rhodium. 6.1%. We continue to benefit from outside Europe. rental experience to our clients. The our lean cost structure and an excellent development and deployment of our fleet utilisation rate, with an average The financial ratios demonstrate the peopleless self check-in system ‘Key’n of 75.4% in 2016, which support financial strength of the company Go’ is just one example. profitability levels higher than the as the leverage ratio was 1.05 times sector, with an EBIT margin of 24.1% EBITDA, 0.2x lower than in the previous One of our keys to success is our aim to over revenue excluding fuel. year despite the investments to grow, continuously develop new products and and the interest coverage ratio was services. In 2016, we identified a niche One of Goldcar’s aims is to be the 5.95 times interest. Both Standard & market within the mid-tier segment and Lluís Pérez leader in the key leisure hotspots. To Poor’s and Moody’s increased their decided to rethink Rhodium, our midCFO this end, in 2016 we opened offices rating of the company as a result tier brand. Rhodium’s strategy is based lluisperez@goldcar.com inside the terminals of major airports of the solid financial performance on three pillars: Rhodium Leisure; the such as Madrid, Barcelona, Ibiza and and Management ability to leverage mid-tier brand for the most demanding Rome Fiumicino, amongst others, Goldcar’s lean structure. leisure customers, Rhodium Long Haul; where we were previously operating in focused on capturing volume from Asia facilities outside the airport. In the first Additionally, the company has a and Americas, and Rhodium Corporate part of 2017 we have opened an office Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) aimed Traveller; the car rental solution for inside the terminal of Nice-Cote d’Azur at financing the fleet and working freelancers and SMEs. 2017 will see the Airport and have secured presence in capital needs. The increase in RCF size deployment of this new line of business Marseille Airport. Moving our offices by €75m during the first months of with high profitability levels and into the airport terminals allow us to 2017 to reach €250m demonstrates the targetting a new customer segment. p.10 2016 ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 p.11 FIGURES CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT 91.9% % Online Bookings 2.8 MWh per person -2.5% 78% Electricity consumption International customers FINANCIAL (per staff member) +212.9% +13.6% GOLDCAR BUSINESS 238.9 M€ -4.1% 299,871 110.8 Goldcar club members Revenue excluding fuel 87 +11.5% +284.5% 134,581 +6.1% gCO2eq/km PEOPLE Number of offices 129.2 M€ Goldcar rental fleet’s greenhouse gas emissions Social network followers EBITDA 914 4.60 +14.5% -14.8% -13.0% 9,780,254 1.05 (out of 5.0) SUPPLIERS +27.7% Staff as of 31st December Days of rental +12.4% Leverage ratio year 4,164 Yearly recycled water volume m3 Satisfaction Survey Mark in Spain 4.53 (out of 5.0) 33,776 2,055 68.5% Satisfaction Survey Mark in Italy +36.6% 5.3 M€ Average vehicle rental fleet 9 Total number of suppliers Permanent staff IT investment MONTHS 82.4% 40.3% Local suppliers Female staff Average age of fleet vehicles GROWTH VS. PREVIOUS YEAR 01 WHO ARE WE 01 2016 WHO ANNUAL REVIEW AND ARE WE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.14 p.15 WHO OUR BUSINESS + 14.5% ARE WE 2015 -2016 variations 2016 RENTAL DAYS 9,780,254 2015 8,540,796 2014 7,880,349 LEADERS IN THE 2016 +12.4% 2015 -2016 variations LEISURE-FOCUSED CAR RENTAL BUSINESS 33,777 AVERAGE VEHICLE RENTAL FLEET 2015 30,047 During 2016, Goldcar has consolidated its position as the 2014 leading leisure-focused car rental company in Spain and 27,890 Portugal. We are proud of reaching this milestone in the Spanish and Portuguese markets whilst enjoying our continued growth in Italy, France, Greece and Croatia. +18.1% 2016 has marked a turning point for Goldcar because we have 2015 -2016 variations 2016 1,244,741 opened 17 new offices in multiple locations including Florence NUMBER OF CONTRACTS PER YEAR and Toulouse. In addition, we have also started operating in Mexico, the Netherlands, Cyprus and Romania and thanks to 2015 our franchisees, further contributing to our expansion. This 1,054,101 has resulted in considerable market growth as we reach more 2014 holidaymakers worldwide. After more than 30 years in the car 969,600 rental business, we are proud to see that Goldcar’s excellent Please note: Figures excluding fleets division (disposed in Q32015) business model and reputation has sparked the creation of new franchises around the globe. OUR SERVICES In 2016, we have opened 17 new Goldcar offices around the globe. Customer satisfaction is a priority for Goldcar, and for this reason we want to provide our clients with a service that International expansion has always been a priority for Goldcar perfectly fits their needs. Our fleet is composed of a wide range and in 2016 we have proven that growing internationally of vehicles that includes most models available on the market, and strengthening our Spanish and Mediterranean leadership accommodating the requirements of every holidaymaker. Value vehicle hire Cost effective. can go hand in hand. It is thanks to the tireless efforts of our talented employees that we are able to pursue both goals, and Goldcar offers two commercial brands in order to ensure that also thanks to our high quality rental fleet, which is one of the all customers will find a vehicle that meets their expectations. newest in Europe. While Goldcar rental offers a cost effective service, providing Goldcar has 87 offices value for money, Rhodium car rental provides a premium in 13 countries vehicle hire service for those customers looking for an exclusive car rental experience. Premium vehicle hire service. AMSTERDAM 01 NETHERLANDS 2016 WHO ANNUAL REVIEW AND ARE WE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.16 p.17 GOLDCAR WORLWIDE Including Franchises FRANCE CLUJ VERONA TREVISO ROMANIA BERGAMO ZAGREB MILANO VENICE TORINO MILANO BORDEAUX LINATE BOLOGNA CROATIA BUCAREST SANTIAGO DE OVIEDO SANTANDER BILBAO FLORENCE COMPOSTELA TOULOUSE SPLIT PISA ANDORRA MARSEILLE NICE ITALY DUBROVNIK ROME FIUMICINO PAMPLONA GIRONA ROME CIAMPINO BARCELONA PORTO SPAIN ZARAGOZA REUS OLBIA BARI MADRID BRINDISI CASTELLON PORTUGAL MENORCA CORFU THESSALONIKI VALENCIA CANCUN LISBON IBIZA MAJORCA LAMEZIA TERME GREECE DENIA CAGLIARI SEVILLE GRANADA PALERMO MURCIA FARO MEXICO BENIDORM ALICANTE TRAPANI CATANIA ATHENS RHODES JEREZ TORREVIEJA CADIZ MALAGA ALMERIA SANCTI PETRI HERAKLION GIBRALTAR CHANIA MALTA CASABLANCA MOROCCO MADEIRA MARRAKECH FUNCHAL 2016 2015 2014 FRANCHISEES CYPRUS LANZAROTE GOLDCAR AIRPORT BRANCH TENERIFE NORTH CANARY LARNACA ISLANDS LAS PALMAS DE GRAN CANARIA GOLDCAR CITY BRANCH FUERTEVENTURA GOLDCAR RAILWAY STATION BRANCH SOUTH TENERIFE 01 2016 WHO ANNUAL REVIEW AND ARE WE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.18 p.19 ORGANISATIONAL OUR ROLE WITH TRADE STRUCTURE ASSOCIATIONS Goldcar is led by a Board of Directors, responsible for making strategic decisions, The car rental business is determined to minimize the negative impacts of its operaincluding those related to corporate social responsibility and the environment. As tions and to provide more sustainable services. Trade associations provide a platform one of our top governing bodies one of its main priorities is to lead the company for companies to facilitate knowledge sharing on several issues, including the devethrough a focus on sustainability. lopment of new sustainability initiatives. The Board has nine members; three major shareholders, two executive directors, For this reason, we have been members of the following associations for several years: and four independent advisors. GANVAM APD LEASEUROPE Spanish National Motor Vehicle Sellers Spanish Association for the European Federation of Leasing ORGANISATION Association Development of Executive Managers Company Associations CHART AECOVAL BALEVAL ADIGITAL Valencian Region’s Vehicle Rental Balearic Island’s Self Drive and Chauffer Spanish Digital Economy Association. Business Association Vehicle Rental Services Association BARCELONA TECH CITY CEO Juan Carlos Azcona AECAV ASEVAL Association open to all those based in Canary Island’s Vehicle Rental Business Madrid’s Self Drive and Chauffer Barcelona working in digital and tech Association Vehicle Rental Business Association business. CHIEF FINANCEL CHIEF OPERATIONS CHIEF FLEET OFFICER OFFICER OFFICER AEVAC FENEVAL TOP SEEDS LAB Lluís Pérez Jaime Soriano Sergio Hernández COMMERCIAL & FRANCHISES Catalan Region’s Vehicle Rental Spanish National Self Drive and A cluster of companies that help travel DIRECTOR Manuel Nuñez Business Association Chauffer Vehicle Rental Business and technology-based start-ups to GROUP NETWORK CONTROLLER DIRECTOR Association develop new business. Pedro Bonet Jose Moreno APECA E-COMMERCE DIRECTOR Pedro Pablo Sastre Santa Cruz de Tenerife province’s FLEET & LOGISTIC & BUSINESS ANALYSIS REMARKETING Vehicle Rental Association DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Jose Luís Martín Alfonso Vidal HR & CS DIRECTOR Tonica Safont In addition, in 2016, we also joined the following associations: ASTA INECA PRICING DIRECTOR This is the Dalina Leonor ASTA is the world’s largest association INECA is a civil organisation devoted Goldcar Senior of travel professionals, and its to the development and promotion of members include travel agents and economic investigation in the province Management Team DIRECTOR OF TECHNOLOGY companies offering services such as of Alicante. In addition, it aims to put César López tours, cruises, hotels or car rentals. the region on the world stage. 01 2016 WHO ANNUAL REVIEW AND ARE WE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.20 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM p.21 PEDRO DALINA CÉSAR Goldcar’s BONET LEONOR LÓPEZ MANAGEMENT TEAM Mr Pedro Bonet is Goldcar’s Group Ms Dalina Leonor is Goldcar’s Mr César López is Goldcar’s Controller. His prior experience Pricing Director. Ms Leonor holds Technology Director. He studied includes six years as Financial Controller a degree in Economics and Business Computer Science Engineering at UPV of Vía Operador Petrolífero S.L. with studies and an MBA from IE Business and has worked in companies such as headquarters in Barcelona and he also held School. Her professional career includes Diana Software Solutions and NUNSYS, positions as Risk Manager, Commodity experience in the Pricing and Revenue where he managed different business Trader and Logistics Manager with the Management area, including 5 years areas; Consulting, Operations and same company. Mr Bonet holds a Degree in as a Head of Pricing and Revenue Smart Business. Mr Juan Carlos Azcona is Goldcar’s Mr Juan Carlos Azcona holds a Business Administration and Management Management in Hotelbeds. Chief Executive Officer. With more degree in Economics and Business from the University of Barcelona. than 12 years in the car rental sector, Studies, an MBA specialising Mr Azcona has prior experience as in Financial Management from General Manager of the FIA Formula E the National University of San JOSÉ LUÍS JOSÉ MANUEL Championship and as General Manager Diego, a Certificate in Marketing, MARTÍN MORENO NUÑEZ of Hertz Spain. passing with Distinction, from the University of California, Berkeley JUAN CARLOS He was also Finance Director of and attended an Orchestrating AZCONA BMC Software Spain & Portugal and Winning Performance programme Mr José Luís Martín is Goldcar’s Mr José Moreno is Goldcar’s Network Mr Manuel Nuñez is Goldcar’s CEO Goldcar previously of Dyson Spain. at the IMD Business School of Fleet and Sales Analysis Director. Director. He has more than 15 years’ Commercial Director. Mr Nuñez has Lausanne, Switzerland. With more than 10 years’ experience professional experience in the car rental developed his professional career within in the car rental sector, he was Supply sector, five of those at Goldcar. Mr Moreno the car rental sector. He held executive Chain Manager and, prior to that, has prior experience as Sales Country positions at Avis Budget Group, including Maintenance and Distribution Manager Manager and, before that, as Regional six years as Sales Director for Leisure TOP MANAGEMENT TEAM at Hertz Spain. His education includes Sales Manager and Key Account Executive inbound and outbound, and 33 years training in process improvement and at Hertz Spain. He holds a degree in as Network and Facilities Director. Mr leadership and team management. Economics and Business Studies and Nuñez holds a degree in English Studies LLUÍS JAIME SERGIO completed a Management Development from the University Claude Bernard of PÉREZ SORIANO HERNÁNDEZ Program at IESE Business School. Lyon and is fluent in 7 languages. CFO Goldcar COO Goldcar CFLO Goldcar TONICA PEDRO PABLO ALFONSO Mr Lluís Pérez is Goldcar’s Chief Mr Jaime Soriano is Chief Operations Mr Sergio Hernández is Goldcar’s Chief SAFONT SASTRE VIDAL Financial Officer. His broad Officer of Goldcar. With more than Fleet Officer. He has a broad professional professional career includes experience 11 years’ experience in the car rental background in the automotive sector, as CFO of Celsa Nordic Group, with sector, Mr Soriano served as General having worked as European Fleet & headquarters in Stockholm (Sweden). Manager, Country Manager, and Remarketing Area Manager of Hyundai Ms Tonica Safont is Goldcar’s Human Mr Pedro Pablo Sastre is Goldcar’s Mr Alfonso Vidal is Goldcar’s Logistics Previously, Mr Pérez served as Finance Operations and Franchise Director Europe, with headquarters in Frankfurt Resources and Customer Service eCommerce Director. He has broad and Remarketing Director. He has Director of Celsa Steel Services UK and at Hertz Spain and was also General (Germany). Prior to that, he was Sales Director. She has more than 12 years’ knowledge of the tourism sector, having more than 17 years’ experience in the car as Head of Internal Audit of Taurus Manager of SEUR, and Logistics Director Area Manager of Fiat and Chrysler. Mr. experience in the car rental sector. Her served as Head of Online Division of rental sector. Before starting at Goldcar in Group. He holds a degree in Business of Chronopost. Mr Soriano holds a Hernandez holds a degree in Business professional career includes experience as Orizonia Corporation and, previously, 2007, Mr Vidal worked as General Manager Economics from the UAB (Barcelona) degree in Economics and Business Administration and Management from General Resources Director of Record – Pricing Manager of TUI Travel PLC Spain. at Star Rent a Car and Iberocar Car Rental. and an Executive MBA from La Salle Studies and a Master in Marketing from the European University of Madrid, a Northgate Spain, and as Finance Operations A graduate in Graphic and Multimedia Mr Vidal has received executive training in Business School. IDE-CESEM Business School. degree in Economics from the University Director of Adecco Iberia. Ms Safont holds a Design, Mr Sastre also holds a Master in Leadership and People Management at the of Strathclyde Glasgow, and a Master in degree in Economics and Business Studies and Project Management from Alfonso X El Otto Walter School. International Trade. an Executive MBA from IE Business School. Sabio University. 02 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 2016 COMMITMENT TOWARDS ANNUAL REVIEW AND CORPORATE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY p.25 p.24 COMMITMENT SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE COMPANY TOWARDS During 2016 we strengthened our commitment to the UN Global Compact, a United Nations initiative updates. In addition, we launched an internal competition amongst our employees regarding Goldcar’s values, In 2016 we renewed our CORPORATE SOCIAL recognized worldwide. Our alignment with these principles has reinforced our leadership in sustainability within the and we have shared it in our internal Newsletter. We revised our internal audit commitment to the UN Global Compact. RESPONSIBILITY leisure-focused car rental sector and has provided us with opportunities to model in order to include improve our sustainability performance. corporate social responsibility franchises except for Cancun, which is aspects. planned for 2017. Our mission, vision and values are also in line with the UN Global Compact In 2016 we conducted a total of 72 2016 has also been marked by and reflect our commitment towards internal audits of Goldcar’s offices the inclusion of corporate social sustainability and profit maximization. and bases network. Audits provide responsibility criteria in our internal audit us with tools to verify the correct procedures, with the aim of providing UN GLOBAL We implemented several initiatives to implementation of all our regulations a more comprehensive analysis of COMPACT share and communicate our vision of and processes in the workplace, and they our performance. The two main This chapter within sustainability, such as presenting our allow us to implement improvements sustainability topics included in internal the report covers: Mission, Vision and Values at Goldcar’s whenever needed. In addition, internal audits are environmental protection and 2016 Convention and in our Quarterly audits have been carried out in all our labour rights. PRINCIPLE 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. PRINCIPLE 02 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; MISSION VISION VALUES PRINCIPLE 04 Goldcar offers car rental services To become the leading leisure· Transparency Businesses should uphold the elimination of all to satisfy leisure customer focused car rental company in · Data driven company forms of forced and compulsory labour; mobility needs around the world, the world. · Passion PRINCIPLE 05 providing the best value for · Accountability Businesses should uphold the effective abolition money for our customers and · Team spirit of child labour; pursuing long term sustainability · Innovation and continuous PRINCIPLE 06 and profitability for our improvement Businesses should uphold the elimination of stakeholders. · Entrepreneurship discrimination in respect of employment and · Safety occupation. PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 02 2016 COMMITMENT TOWARDS ANNUAL REVIEW AND CORPORATE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY p.27 p.26 In 2016, training on the Code of Ethics and compliance policy was offered to all Goldcar members, an initiative which will be repeated GLOBAL CSR GLOBAL MANAGEMENT CORPORATE in the near future. IMPROVEMENT TARGETS GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR'S VALUE COMPLIANCE WITH TARGET At Goldcar, we believe that long term for all employees. In addition, in 2016 staff can confidentially report issues of Carrying out an internal audit of 100% of all Goldcar % offices audited 72 offices audited 100.0% growth and international expansion we continued our efforts to increase their concern. Goldcar’s Ethics Committee offices (according to our current audit model, which (Including Pulsar) can only be achieved with effective awareness and knowledge of the Code is responsible for handling compliance especifies that all offices must be yearly audited, except management and ethical behaviour. For of Ethics by implementing several actions: issues in accordance with our Prevention those opened after July) this reason, our Code of Ethics, approved and Response Manual, applicable to the in 2014 by the Company’s top governing • The Code of Ethics was translated into entire Goldcar Group. Our Prevention Carry out an internal audit of 100% of all Goldcar % franchises audited 90.0% 90.0% bodies, provides behavioural guidelines three different languages and was shared and Response Manual is currently franchises (all franchisees except for all Goldcar members and collaborators, through our office network. being updated according to the new Cancun) both internally and externally, including version of the Spanish Criminal Code Including environmental inspection, human rights and Number of audits carried out using 39 offices audited under 100.0% staff, third parties, suppliers, individuals, • Online training was carried out in order implemented through the Law 1/2015 working conditions in all aspects of the current audit the new audit model environment and human and any person or collective with whom we to increase knowledge regarding the and the resolution of the Prosecutor model rights aspects may have a professional relationship. Our Code of Ethics and its main guidelines and General’s Office 1/2016 issued on 22 Delivering the new Company mission, vision and values Number of implemented initiatives 4 100.0% Code of Ethics is the pillar of our internal the compliance policy. January. We expect this process to be to all Company Members culture based on ethics, transparency and completed in 2017. good corporate management. • Different initiatives was organized in order to raise awareness of the Code In 2016, there was a total of two YEAR TO The Code of Ethics aims to ensure the of Ethics, such as staff competitions in complaints reported to the Ethics Channel FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR REACH TARGET ethical and respectful behaviour of Goldcar’s Newsletter. and both were resolved successfully. Adherence to the World Tourism Organization Certification by the World 2017 all Company members, including the (UNWTO) Tourism Organization observance of all applicable legislation and Goldcar believes it is important to Moreover, Goldcar counts on a compliance (UNWTO) international human rights regulations ensure that franchisees uphold the same policy to prevent corruption and other (UN Norms on the Responsibilities of standards and values, and for this reason similar offences, including a Catalogue Transnational Corporations and Other they must also comply with the Code of of Offences applicable to all staff. The Business Enterprises with Regard to Ethics. This year, the Code was signed by framework ‘Rules on gifts, benefits and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines). all our franchisees. advantages’ establishes practices in order to prevent criminal behaviour that may The Code of Ethics can be found on Complaints related to non-compliance occur in certain situations. the e-learning platform “Goldcar with the Code of Ethics can be directed University” which guarantees easy access to the Ethics Channel, a system where 02 2016 COMMITMENT TOWARDS ANNUAL REVIEW AND CORPORATE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY p.29 p.28 OUR VOLUNTARY COMMITMENT GOLDCAR’S STAKEHOLDERS TO IMPROVE TRANSPARENCY WITH OUR CUSTOMERS Stakeholders are key to understanding our sustainability performance. At Goldcar we believe that remaining engaged with our stakeholders contributes to ongoing In the United Kingdom, brokers have to comply with a new learning for both parties. For this reason, in 2015 a work group made up of key regulation (CMA) requiring them to provide their clients Company individuals reviewed our stakeholder mapping. with all the information regarding the services of the parent company. Goldcar has voluntarily extended this commitment During 2016 we further strengthened the relationship with stakeholders and to all the brokers it deals with, creating a more transparent reinforced our commitment to their needs and expectations. Thanks to several way of operating. From this moment all brokers working communication channels, we maintain an ongoing dialogue with them, and with us need to provide all the information regarding this allows us to integrate their perspective within our business strategy. New Goldcar’s services’ terms and conditions, with the obligation technologies play an important role in the communication channels used to obtain to disclose all relevant information. This is a result of our their input. close collaboration with brokers with the aim of enhancing ethics and transparency with our customers. Hence, we have upgraded our transparency standards, and we are ready to expand this way of operating throughout Europe. GOLDCAR’S STAKEHOLDER MAPPING SHAREHOLDERS STAFF CUSTOMERS We work to create value through We provide a quality work environment We offer an excellent vehicle rental sustainable company management. to facilitate talent retention. service and strive towards improving the Goldcar experience. ETHICS AND GOOD CORPORATE MANAGEMENT PROMOTION TARGETS INDICATOR’S DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR VALUE COMPLIANCE Knowledge and acceptance of the Code of Ethics by all franchisees % of franchisees who have 100.0% 100.0% LOCAL COMMUNITIES SUPPLIERS PUBLIC AUTHORITIES who joined the Company before 2015. validated their knowledge and observance of Goldcar’s Code We have a positive impact in those We establish relationships that are We cooperate by complying with of Ethics communities where we carry out our based on trust and the promotion of all applicable regulations and by Online training on the Code of Ethics and compliance policy aimed % of staff members trained on 100.0% 100.0% business. sustainability developing new industry standards. at all staff (except executives and line managers). ethics and compliance aspects Reviewing the Prevention Manual and adapting it to Italy's specific Reviewed prevention and 100.0% 100.0% regulations. response manual YEAR TO FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR REACH TARGET FRANCHISES RENTAL AGENCIES AIRPORT OPERATORS Targeting 100% completion by all employees of the online Compliance Course Compliance 2017 We collaborate with their business We work together to create shared We provide a service aimed at the Adapt the Prevention and Response Manual to 100% of Corporate Countries Health and Safety Adaptation of 2018 success through our experience and the wealth on the basis of good marketing holidaymaking industry that enhances Prevention and Response Manual business model developed by Goldcar. practices and transparency. the range available at the airport. 02 2016 COMMITMENT TOWARDS ANNUAL REVIEW AND CORPORATE SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBILITY p.31 p.30 MATERIALITY MATERIALITY MATRIX SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES MATERIALITY SUSTAINABLE ISSUES Reporting is a tool that provides us with self-knowledge and allows us to share our sustainability performance with all Presence in the marketplace Quality employment our stakeholders. Every business has countless impacts, and Establishing CSR criteria when selecting Equal opportunities in order to report on them, the most relevant ones need to suppliers Staff training be selected to ensure honesty and transparency. Goldcar has CO2 emissions management Secure services Child and forced labour Customer satisfaction and complaints focused on those aspects that are truly material to its business Customer privacy procedure and to its stakeholders. High Online transactions security* New technologies available to custoWe have prepared our report in accordance with the G4 mers* Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an independent standards organisation that helps businesses, IMPORTANCE OF ISSUES FOR STAKEHOLDERS governments and other organisations understand and communicate their impacts. In order to determine its content, we undertook a materiality assessment in 2015, which took Inclusive work environment Staff and management relationships Financial performance Preventing discrimination Unfair competition practices Occupational Health and Safety into account the principles of the GRI G4 Guidelines and the Environmental awareness of employees Energy Good marketing practices AA1000SES Accountability standard. and customers Anti-corruption strategies Intermediate The materiality assessment of 2015 considered the views of around 1000 stakeholders and followed three steps: Identification, Prioritisation and Validation. In the identification step, we considered a wide range of aspects identified as material by other companies of the same sector. In the prioritisation step, we chose those aspects that were material for Goldcar and lastly, for the Validation step our management team reviewed the results and ensured that all necessary aspects had been included. Buying from local suppliers Water consumption Materials consumed Customer compensation for CO2 Expanding our business and sustainabiliCorrect refuse management Bearing in mind the depth of last year’s materiality assessment, emissions ty strategies to our franchisees and that our business activity and the social context have not Eco friendly services Investment in the environment changed, we have reported on the material aspects used in our Commitment towards industry initiatives Association and the right to collective on clean technologies bargaining 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility report. Low Human rights training Social impact claims process Safety measures Social action and volunteering Human rights assessment Compliance with regulations Low Intermediate High RELEVANT TO GOLDCAR Once again, Goldcar is reporting in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines, one of the world´s most comprehensive and trustworthy Environmental aspects Human rights aspects sustainability reporting standards. Financial aspects Society aspects Work practice aspects Product responsibility aspects * Other issues (not relevant to GRI’s G4 guide) 03 COMMITMENT TOWARDS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.35 p.34 COMMITMENT TOP 15 CUSTOMER BY COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE OTHERS 2016 15.6% UNITED KINGDOM TOWARDS 18.4% CUSTOMER POLAND 1.1% RUSSIA 1.2% IRELAND 1.5% PORTUGAL 1.6% SATISFACTION DENMARK 1.7% SWITZERLAND 1.8% NORWAY SPAIN 17.6% 2.1% SWEDEN 2.3% BELGIUM 3.7% THE NETHERLANDS UN GLOBAL PRINCIPLE 01 Businesses should support 4.3% COMPACT and respect the protection of This chapter within internationally proclaimed human FRANCE GERMANY the report covers: rights within their sphere of influence. 7.3% 11.1% ITALY 8.6% CUSTOMERS ARE THE KEY TO OUR SUCCESS 2016 has been marked by a continued focus on increasing In addition, we have continued providing new technology customer satisfaction, and we believe that we have once solutions to our customers to increase the efficiency of our again lived up to our clients’ expectations. operations. We made a series of improvements such as a queue management system in response to our clients’ feedback. We Thanks to our international expansion we have also modernised our website in order to improve transparency customers in more than 15 countries worldwide. for our users and to improve additional support channels such as Goldcar Help. During 2015, our goal was to increase our clients’ satisfaction and trust. In order to achieve that, we carried out a pilot trial In 2016, we conducted a workshop with some of our to implement the Net Promoter Score (NPS) index, a customer customers to identity their suggestions in order to improve satisfaction measurement system, in 21 offices located in 5 our services and facilities. Among other recommendations, different countries. This year, the NPS system has reached we have redefined Goldcar’s image at our offices to align it to all our offices, allowing us to measure customer satisfaction our new online image. more accurately. 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.37 p.36 ENGAGING CUSTOMERS THROUGH SOCIAL MEDIA Social media is a platform for By joining the Goldcar Club, our strengthening our bond with customers customers can collect points with every GOLDCAR PRESS and stakeholders. Social media is rental and redeem them for prizes and increasingly becoming a normalised gifts. Goldcar clubbers have priority In 2016, we launched a new platform, Goldcar Press, in order to share communication channel, used by access to our exclusive promotions and relevant information about our business with the press and other customers to obtain information about our services. Goldcar is cognizant of that and puts special effort into offers and they benefit from special discounts on products and services provided by our partners. A world of 131,147 stakeholders. The platform is available in English and Spanish, and it has useful features such as a history of press releases, appearances in the media, graphical material, and other resources to facilitate the communicating through social media. advantages just one click away and Facebook followers work of journalists. The platform also gathers our corporate social Customers receive a response with an completely for free responsibility practices and shows Goldcar’s sponsorships. average of 2 hours on Facebook or 24 hours on Twitter. In 2016, we reached Goldcar implements regular updates 28,450 customer interactions via to its website in order to make it more CUSTOMERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS’ Facebook and Twitter. accessible to users. During 2016, we RELATIONSHIP TARGETS applied changes to improve navigation, DEGREE OF Facebook is the social media channel searching information and booking 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR'S VALUE COMPLIANCE where we interact most frequently with services within the website, and we WITH TARGET 3,434 customers, and for this reason we have launched a new section about Goldcar Continue to improve Goldcar’s % increase in the number of 353.8% 100.0% focused all our efforts on strengthening Blue, which offers rental of electric, presence on Social Networks Facebook followers since 2015 Facebook followers 2015: 28,902 Facebook followers 2016: 131,147 our Facebook presence. We have created hybrid and GLP vehicles. Information different Goldcar Facebook accounts, displaying different languages and on sponsorships, client reviews, sales, and Ongoldroad has also been given Twitter followers Continue to improve Goldcar’s presence on Social Networks % increase in the number of Twitter followers since 2015 51.1% Twitter followers in 2015: 2,273 100.0% Twitter followers in 2016: 3,434 therefore targeting different collectives. more visibility. Goldcar has a general English Facebook account, together with three marketGoldcar Club has specific accounts: one in Spanish, one experienced rapid growth in Portuguese and another in Italian. in 2016 with a member They display content and information increase of 212% related to the interests of our users in those countries. Our goal for 2017 is to In 2016 our website transitioned towards create additional Facebook accounts for a responsive design, which allows for our French and German markets easy mobile phone navigation, and it was available in 14 different languages, Our corporate blog increasing readability for all our clients. Ongoldroad reached 249,221 views and was read by 211,871 users in 2016. Our customer engagement goes beyond social media, and it also includes features such as the Goldcar Club, a member’s club offering discounts on Goldcar services as well as several hotels and We have worked to tourist attractions. In 2016, it reached improve the usability 299,871 members just two years after of Goldcar’s website. being launched. 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.39 p.38 INCREASING CUSTOMER OUR TECHNOLOGICAL TRANSFORMATION SATISFACTION At Goldcar we are determined to transform our business by With this new feature, damages can be registered in great detail integrating new technologies into our operations, and our and the signature of our customers can be digitally captured at In 2016, the NPS System was implemented in all of our ultimate goal is to improve our customers’ experience. In the last the moment of the review. This has led to a significant saving of offices, which gave us a chance to identify the reasons for years, we have carried out a gradual transition towards more paper, which has lowered operational costs and helps protect customer disappointment and satisfaction. The NPS System digitalized, efficient and competitive services by implementing the environment. Digitalization of check-in and check-out also is a powerful tool for increasing our self-knowledge and for external improvements, which have benefited the customer, increases comfort for our customers, who receive an email with identifying actions for improvement. and internal improvements, applied within the organisation. the results of the vehicle inspection. We also continue our efforts to improve road assistance All of Goldcar’s work centres have Elimination of long queues has been one of our goals in 2016, In addition, we have continued improving Goldcar’s App, through the social call; a system that allows our customers implemented the NPS customer in accordance with our customers’ expectations. In 2015 we allowing our customers to make bookings, check details of their to rate the service provided through a call, which helps us satisfaction measurement system launched the first smart queue management system in the reservation and request invoices through their mobile phone’s identify areas needing improvement. sector, which we have further improved and developed. In App. The App also permits customers to send their location 2016 the queue management system has been implemented in the case of requesting roadside assistance, and to declare in 21 different Goldcar locations. As a result, 89% of Goldcar’s an accident or theft. Other features include subscription to customers were attended to in less than 30 minutes during Goldcar Club, and the App is available in several languages. the peak season (July and August 2016). CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE IMPROVEMENT TARGETS With the aim of reducing wait times in our services, we have DEGREE OF also developed Key’n Go, allowing customers to pick up their 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR'S VALUE COMPLIANCE car keys without coming to a Goldcar desk and in less than WITH TARGET 1 minute. Measurement of the customer’s satisfaction through % of work centres where NPS 100.0% 100.0% the NPS system in all of Goldcar’s work centres is implemented (except franchisees). Moreover, in order to make the check-in and check-out process more efficient and transparent with our customers, Implement customer’s evaluation regarding our % of countries where a survey about 100.0% 100.0% roadside assistance services in Croatia. customers’ satisfaction regarding we have implemented a new technological solution allowing Reducing customer wait times has roadside assistance is implemented for a faster review of damages upon vehicle return. been a priority for Goldcar in 2016 in comparison with all the countries where Goldcar operates Customer satisfaction levels (customer helpline) Satisfaction survey mark Spain 4.60 100.0% above 4.5 out of 5.0. Italy 4.53 FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC Customer satisfaction levels (customer helpline) Satisfaction survey mark 2017 above 4.5 out of 5.0. 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.41 p.40 KEY’N GO Last summer Goldcar implemented its pioneer device, Key’n Go, an automatic key collection system that allows any customer with a reservation to collect the car keys in just 1 minute. Simple and easy, customers who choose the Key’n Go collection system only have to enter a code received on their phone, follow the on-screen steps and they can immediately start enjoying their trip. During the next few years, new technological solutions will be developed to further increase our customers’ satisfaction. One of them is Connected Car, where customers will be able to pick up the car in the airport right after landing. This will provide our customers with a complete digital experience free from queues, paperwork and other procedures, such as coming to a Goldcar desk. TRANSPARENCY AND SECURITY IN THE BOOKING PROCESS During 2016, 95% of all contracted services were booked Goldcar’s website throughout the booking process, as well as via online, which confirms that our customers are looking for a fast, video channels such as YouTube. This allows customers to obtain efficient, and paper-free service. quick and clear information while they make their purchase. In recent years we have worked hard to increase transparency Making payments online provides security for the customer with our customers by implementing improvements in and increases the efficiency of services. For this reason, our website. Thanks to these efforts, in 2016 we have Goldcar provides a secure platform where customers can pay obtained the online Trust certification. Other certifications for services online. The platform is compliant with the PCIensuring transparency during the booking process have DSS Standards, and therefore provides security for all details also been renewed this year, namely the Ekomi certification entered during the purchase transaction. and quality certificate for good practices in e-commerce. We have obtained the online Trust certification. At Goldcar we believe it is essential to provide complete information to customers and to ensure that they understand The PAYTPV model allows our clients to purchase services the conditions of the service they have purchased. To achieve from our own website, which permits us to retain full control that, we have created a set of didactic videos and materials of the transactions at all times. In addition, we have renewed about our services and their conditions, including the fuel our SSL Certification from GeoTrust which certifies that all policy and damages cover, amongst others. The videos have internet based communications are carried out in a secure been translated into different languages and are available on way throughout the purchasing process. 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.43 p.42 CUSTOMER TRUST MARK CERTIFICATION (ONLINE TRUST) SUPPORT We are proud to have the Online Trust certification, distinguishing those companies who voluntarily use good internet and e-commerce practices, who protect consumers and users, and When booking a service, customers after taking into consideration the all incidents, including those from who operate according to high ethical standards. may have queries or questions that specific characteristics and demands of services booked via intermediaries. In need to be addressed. At Goldcar we each market in which we operate. In 2016, we have reviewed our response The mark certifies that our website is trustworthy, and it allows Goldcar to benefit from a want our clients to feel that they can addition, our call centres in Spain and system to increase the quality of the system of mediation and arbitration in case of any claims against the company, with no cost count on us, so we provide them with Italy have longer operating hours than replies given to our clients. for customers. several options to get in touch. our competitors, making us leaders in customer service. Goldcar’s website inspires trust, credibility and security for users during the whole booking We have updated Goldcar process. Information on our services, pricing policies, customer support, data protection and help centre with new As a car rental business, roadside payment or return of the service, is displayed at all times. information. assistance services are also key to shaping the customer’s perception of One of them is the Goldcar help centre, our company. That’s why our road a platform where customers can obtain assistance service continues to be information on a wide range of aspects, available 24/7 in every country where CUSTOMER TRANSPARENCY IMPROVEMENT TARGETS such as fees, cancellations, invoices and we operate, ensuring all emergencies DEGREE OF any practical information in an easy are resolved quickly and efficiently. 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR'S VALUE COMPLIANCE WITH and user-friendly manner. This platform TARGET also has a Frequently Asked Questions In addition, Goldcar also has a query Obtaining the online Trust certification. Online Trust certification. Online Trust certification 100.0% section. During 2016, the platform has management system, known as the obtained been updated with new information back-office service, in order to centralise CUSTOMER PRIVACY Goldcar treats all customers’ details and personal data in conformity with Act 15/1999 passed on 13 December on Personal Data Protection. In order to guarantee the same standards for our subsidiaries abroad, we have implemented adaptations to local Data Protection legislations. To date, there are no records of any privacy breach or customers’ data loss. 03 2016 COMMITMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND TOWARDS CUSTOMER SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SATISFACTION p.45 p.44 CUSTOMER SUGGESTIONS MANAGEMENT PUTTING SECURITY AT THE IMPROVEMENT TARGETS CORE OF OUR BUSINESS DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR'S VALUE COMPLIANCE As a car rental business, focus on security is paramount. In WITH TARGET order to guarantee that our vehicles are in good order, we have Call Centre Strengthen our customer services by Number of calls at the Call 38,315 100.0% several policies and control procedures in place. 80% of our implementing a Call Centre in Italy centre in Italy fleet is renewed annually, which makes us one of the youngest % of customers' difficulties solved in the % of FCR (First Contact Spain 83.7% 100.0% fleets in Europe, and we provide through technical maintenance first call no lower than 65% Resolution) Italy 83.9% to monitor the condition of every car we rent to our customers. Level of calls attended no lower than 90% % of attended SLA calls 90.1% (Spain and Italy) 100.0% Back Office Resolution of complaints in an average Days taken to resolve complaints 4.5 100.0% All our customers receive an information leaflet explaining the period less than 7 days local traffic rules in the country where the booking is made. 80% of complaints resolved % of complaints resolved 90.3% 100.0% in less than 13 days in less than 13 days Goldcar is committed to the safety of our customers, so we go beyond legal requirements to provide additional safety Road Assistance Level of calls attended no lower than 90% % of attended SLA calls 90.7% 100.0% guarantees: Assuring that we provide quick roadside Average time taken to provide a Spain 39 min average 100.0% assistance, no greater than 40 mins in Spain tow truck service YEAR TO FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR Pre-MOT procedure REACH TARGET The Ministry of Transport (MOT) carries out several Ensuring that our call handling levels (SLA) are at least 90% % call handling levels 2017 tests on rental vehicles. This is a rigorous procedure that all our cars need to pass. Prior to undergoing the Maintain our current percentage of customer issues resolved on first call at over 65% % customer queries 2017 MOT testing, inspections are also carried out by our resolved on first call. specialized staff. This procedure has been approved Continue to ensure that we can provide a fast road assistance service Average towing service 2017 by the Fleet Maintenance, Internal Audit and Fleet in under 40 minutes in Spain. waiting time Purchase Managers. Post check-in inspection Upon return, all our vehicles are inspected for any damages that might have been caused during use. These damages are classified into 3 levels, and vehicles with serious damage (levels 2 and 3) are removed from the fleet. Regular safety checks Our vehicle cleaning subcontractors perform basic safety checks (oil levels, lights, and tyre pressure and damage) during every car wash. After a car crash or small collision, Goldcar carries out a Our vehicles are 9 months check-up of the repairs made to the vehicle. The check-up old on average is done by appointed experts to ensure that everything has been properly fixed and that the vehicle is in an optimal condition. This review responds to a Goldcar internal policy and is applied in all our offices, except for Croatia. 04 OUR IMPACT ON THE COMMUNITY 04 2016 OUR IMPACT ON ANNUAL REVIEW AND THE COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.48 p.49 OUR IMPACT ROAD SAFETY COEXISTENCE OF CYCLISTS AND DRIVERS ON THE Cyclists and drivers often share the road, which can lead to accidents and injuries. Cyclists are particularly exposed to danger; however, the bicycle is a sustainable means of COMMUNITY transportation and promotes a healthy lifestyle. As a car rental business, Goldcar is committed to improving the relationship between cyclists and drivers, and expanding the use of the bicycle by improving its safety and facilitating its use. In 2016, we have continued to support sports events and competitions such as La Vuelta Ciclista Andalucía and Mallorca 312, which international sports professionals and cyclists participate in every year. We also sponsor a cycling team; the Goldcar Bike Sport. UN GLOBAL PRINCIPLE 01 Businesses should support COMPACT and respect the protection of This chapter within internationally proclaimed human the report covers: rights within their sphere of influence. OUR CYCLIST MANIFESTO HAS BEEN LAUNCHED During 2016, we have developed and launched a Cyclist manifesto, which During 2016, we have continued our promotes a culture based on mutual efforts to strengthen our relationship respect between cyclists and drivers. with the community. At Goldcar we It contains several recommendations understand that social sustainability to improve coexistence between both When it comes to the is key to our success and we want to parties, and its main goal is to reduce community, road safety ensure that our operations are planting accidents on the road. The contents of and sustainable mobility seeds for a better world. the manifesto have been agreed upon by are our main lines of action professionals, associations, customers This belief has led us to sponsor several and drivers from different nationalities. local initiatives and projects. Our efforts In 2017, we will continue working on are channelled into two main lines new prevention measures and on the of action: road safety and awareness development of awareness campaigns. for sustainable driving. A third line of action focuses on other social initiatives. 04 2016 OUR IMPACT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL THE COMMUNITY RESPONSIBILITY REPORT p.50 p.51 YOUNGSTERS BEHIND THE WHEEL RAISING AWARENESS ABOUT SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY In 2016, we started developing a training course for youngsters aged 18 to 21 years old, aimed at boosting their safety on the road. This course will allow young people in this age range Goldcar understands that car transportation is responsible for to rent a vehicle at Goldcar once they have completed the several environmental and social impacts, including climate training. The course focuses on accident prevention and safe change. For this reason, through our Goldcar Blue initiative, driving, and it has been developed thanks to an agreement we strive to raise awareness of the use of electric, hybrid and MENT FUNDAC P EES between Goldcar and Real Automovil Club de España (RACE). GLP vehicles. Our goal is to approach drivers and organisations ADI IÓ It entails practical and real-life driving on the Jarama circuit and to make them aware of these environmentallyat the Race-Red Bull Driver’s Academy. The course will be friendly vehicles, and that’s why we have loaned electric AM available in 2017. cars to different organisations and companies, including: AMADIP EESMENT FUNDACIÓ Goldcar loaned two electric cars to Amadip Esment, an organisation that works for equal opportunities and a good quality of life for intellectually disabled people. The two electric vehicles were made available free of charge for two months, and they were used by the staff of the organisation in their daily tasks relating to labour insertion, school orientation and commercial activities. Our collaboration with RACE will allow us to develop special LOGITRAVEL campaigns for young foreigners, providing them with information regarding speed limits, alcohol consumption and LOGITRAVEL traffic regulations. Two electric Nissan Leaf vehicles were loaned to Logitravel, In addition, Goldcar has reached an agreement with Campos an important travel agency. Through this collaboration we are Racing, a racing team. As a result, our brand has been linked both expressing our willingness to promote energy efficiency to the image of the young driver Álex Palou and we are and to reduce environmental pollution. As a travel agency, contributing to the start of his motor racing career. Logitravel is able to share the benefits of electric mobility with its peers and potentially lead a change in its sector. ENDESA Finally, we also took part in the Smart Destination Congress, Goldcar and Endesa developed the project #Movitur, which which took place in Mallorca in September 2016. Its goal gathered several journalists and bloggers in Mallorca. In order was to boost the transformation of tourist destinations using to highlight the benefits of electric cars to society, they were smarter and more sustainable designs. It is also aimed to taken on tours in electric cars through the island. Together encourage the management of services through a lens of with Endesa, we also took part in the last edition of ITB Berlin economic, social and environmental development. This is a in Germany, sharing the good aspects of the Goldcar Blue vision that we share, and for this reason Goldcar made several experience. electrical vehicles available to the organisers of the Congress. 04 2016 OUR IMPACT ON ANNUAL REVIEW AND THE COMMUNITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.52 p.53 SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN WITH SOCIAL INITIATIVES CANCER AND THEIR FAMILIES In 2016 we have donated At Goldcar we want to contribute to a more equal society 43,972 € to social causes At Goldcar we also support leading a healthy lifestyle by promoting Through this initiative Goldcar is supporting the Sant Joan de and so we provide our clients with the chance to take part in sport among young people. In 2016, we have supported the Déu Hospital that is expanding its paediatrics unit that focuses different social initiatives. Sant Joan Volleyball Club, donating €6000. In addition, we on cancer treatment and research. The project involves the provided vehicles for the team’s transportation to matches and assignment of vehicles so that the Hospital doctors can competitions. The sponsorship has a positive impact on the improve and increase home care for children affected by the region because it promotes the values of sport and it strengthens disease. We work together on the dissemination of awareness the bonds between our company and the community. campaigns and solidarity that will be developed through offline and online channels. We also sponsored Foro Turismo +, an event organised by Diario de Mallorca in order to look for new solutions and perspectives In addition, we have carried out a blood donation campaign, REFUGEE AID CAMPAIGN BY in the tourism sector. The event was attended by some of the and we have contributed to the Banco de Alimentos, an GOLDCAR AND ACNUR most prominent figures in the technology and political sectors. organisation that gathers food and redistributes it to vulnerable RESULTS OF THE REFUGEE groups. Goldcar also took part in the annual event We are AID CAMPAIGN IN 2016 In 2016, Goldcar joined forces with ACNUR, one, organised by Invest for Children, which consisted of a the Spanish branch of the United Nations 7-a-side football tournament at the RDC Espanyol stadium in Refugee Agency, with the aim of helping Barcelona. Every company had their own team, and the final Syrians displaced by war. Through our prize was to play a game against a group of RCD Espanyol e-commerce platform, we have launched a players. campaign to raise funds. Each customer that rents a car through our website can donate CROWD-FUNDED Our goal is to continue increasing our collaboration with local during the payment process, and Goldcar BY CUSTOMERS: initiatives to reach more people and to cover a wider variety commits to contributing the same amount. €13,251.57 of social issues. In 2017, we plan to work with the Fashion Art Institute project, aimed at improving the quality of life In addition, two types of donations are of people at risk of social exclusion in Cuba. Participants will available from our website: €2 for a day’s get the chance to express their creativity through painting, supply of water for 6 refugees, and €4 for designing, and through other artistic creations. The goal is diapers for one baby for one month. to promote creativity and to provide them with the tools and knowledge to favour their integration into society. This campaign with Acnur reflects our willingness and determination to leave a positive footprint on the world and on the ADDED BY GOLDCAR COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT (SAME AMOUNT): people that live in it. €13,251.57 DEGREE OF 2016 TARGET INDICATOR INDICATOR´S VALUE COMPLIANCE Increasing our social action investment % increase in our social investment 57.0% 100.0% in regards to 2015 (43,972 € in 2016) TOTAL AMOUNT COLLECTED: Launch of a micro grants scheme1 Number of initiatives launched 2 100.0% €26,503.14 FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR YEAR TO REACH TARGET Promoting safety on the road for cyclists and Number of initiatives launched 2017 drivers by launching new initiatives in 2017-2018 Promoting safety on the road for young drivers Number of initiatives launched 2017 1Activation of a field in the online reservation process to give customers the opportunity to collaborate with social projects 05 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT THROUGH A SUSTAINABILITY LENS 05 2016 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND THROUGH A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY LENS p.57 p.56 ECONOMIC BUSINESS GROWTH 2016 has been the year in which we have REVENUE EVOLUTION EXCLUDING FUEL (million Euros) continued our international expansion MANAGEMENT and extended our presence throughout Europe and globally. 8 new offices have opened in Italy, strengthening our 2016 238.9 presence there, and a new office has THROUGH A opened its doors in France. In 2016, we have increased 2015 210.2 our revenue by 13.6% when 192.1 SUSTAINABILITY 2014 compared to 2015, amounting to €238.9 million LENS We have also opened our first office in 1.3% Latin America thanks to our franchisees, CORPORATION to whom we have provided tools and 7.8% TAX SUPPLIES knowledge to guarantee their business success. The office is in Cancun, Mexico. 8.2% Our franchisees have also opened an FINANCIAL EXPENCSES office in Marrakesh, Morocco, allowing to expand our presence in North Africa. Our success is based on a well-planned business strategy focusing on the leisure 8.9% WAGES market, together with good value for money services. Today, we are one of Added the leaders in the leisure-focused car Value Status rental business in Europe, and we have an increasing presence globally. 2016 2 51.15% OPERATING COSTS Under Investindustrial’s1 ownership the company strengthened its business growth and continued creating jobs and opportunities in all areas where we 22.7% 2All proceeds from supplies are REPAYMENTS reinvested into the operate, thus having a positive impact company to improve profitability on local communities and sustain business growth. EBITDA (€million) EBITDA Margin (%) 1The term “Investindustrial” in this document has been used only for practical ease of reading and does 2016 129.2 54.1% not intend to imply any specific reference to a legal definition of any activity of control by any company with respect to other companies and should be 2015 121.8 57.9% Please note: Figures excluding 104.3 54.3% read as referring to, where the context requires, fleets division to the applicable advisory company or investment 2014 (disposed in subsidiary entity. Q32015) 05 2016 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ANNUAL REVIEW AND THROUGH A SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY LENS p.59 p.58 INNOVATION FOR OUTLOOK FOR 2017 BUSINESS SUCCESS In the coming years we expect a continued tourism growth at all regions where Goldcar operates. Since we are leaders in Goldcar’s goal is to improve customer experience through the the leisure-focused car rental sector, we expect a significant implementation of new technological solutions. Customers growth for Goldcar too. and society increasingly rely on technologies to book services, purchase products and make any arrangements. We always In particular, we foresee a significant activity growth in the airports want to be at the forefront of innovation, and so we have of Barcelona, Madrid, Ibiza, Niza, Marseille, Rome Fiumicino, as undertaken several initiatives in the past few years, such as we have recently entered in-airport, as well in the new offices the smart queue management system and the creation of recently opened. a self-service kiosk. In 2016, we have launched Key’n Go, a system allowing customers to pick up a vehicle right after In 2017, we will open new offices in France, Biarritz and Lyon, making a reservation, with no waiting time, queuing, or in order to reinforce our presence in the country according to needing to come to a Goldcar desk. Goldcar’s international expansion strategy. Innovation is also at the core of our internal management, so Furthermore, we plan to open new offices in Turkey and we we continue to undertake several procedures and methods expect to open new franchises in Kos (Greece) during the first to increase our team’s working capacity. This year we have trimester and in Serbia, Montenegro and Iceland during the continued reinforcing our data protection system (DPC), second trimester of the year. This is a challenge that we are aimed at improving our IT system’s security. excited to embark upon. Operating in Turkey will allow us to consolidate our presence in the Mediterranean region and In 2017, we will continue focusing on new technologies as continue our expansion outside of Europe. one of Goldcar’s main business strategies. We will implement new IT solutions for our customers such as connected car Investment in new technologies will continue to be one of our services and other mobility projects. priorities in the coming years, as we consider it to be a crucial element for our economic growth and the improvement of In order to offer quality services, we need to know our our competitiveness. During recent years, the number of customers’ needs. During 2017-2018, Goldcar will use specialised professionals in our company has been growing technological innovation to understand the needs and wishes exponentially to address the demands for more innovation. of customers and to offer targeted services. The Big Data project will consist of gathering data from customers and In addition, the commitment to meet the needs and analysing the general market, resulting in an improvement expectations of leisure customers is one of Goldcar’s main in Goldcar’s prices and services, which will adapt to a strategic pillars. This, along with the aim of expanding our large continuously changing market. customer portfolio, has led us to boost Rhodium, Goldcar’s mid-tier brand, by devising comprehensive strategy based on three different products: • Rhodium leisure, focused on leisure customers expecting a premium service at affordable prices • Rhodium Corporate Traveller, the car rental solution for S.M.E and freelancers • Rhodium Long Haul, especially designed for Off-Europe customers We have increased our investment in technological innovation by 36.6% compared to 2015. 06 THE PEOPLE BEHIND OUR SUCCESS 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.63 p.62 THE PEOPLE STAFF MEMBERS as of 31st december BEHIND OUR SUCCESS MALE FEMALE TOTAL 2014 389 231 620 2015 436 278 714 2016 545 369 914 Please note: Figures shown in the tables below only include data related to staff employed directly by Goldcar, and therefore exclude any staff employed by the franchisees or outsourced. UN GLOBAL EMPLOYEES FIRST COMPACT This chapter within During 2016, we have grown our reason, all entry level salaries offered to initiative was to measure the satisfaction breakfast with the CEO scheme, where AVERAGE NUMBER the report covers: team of professionals considerably, new recruits are higher than the local of people working at Goldcar staff can communicate directly with OF OUTSOURCED STAFF which has helped us consolidate minimum wages in the countries where through an easy and comprehensive Goldcar’s top decision maker to discuss IN GOLDCAR FIELDS PRINCIPLE 01 our geographical and operational we operate. questionnaire. Topics such as training any topic of their liking. This contributes Businesses should support and respect the expansion. Our employees have also and education, work environment to an open, horizontal corporate culture protection of internationally proclaimed human contributed to achieving a higher In 2016, Goldcar has developed new conditions, remuneration, professional where employees are encouraged rights within their sphere of influence. customer satisfaction. On December initiatives aimed at reinforcing an relationships and personal expectations to share their ideas and bring their 2016 325 PRINCIPLE 03 31st, we had 914 employees, 68.5% internal culture of commitment, team were included in the survey. Thanks feedback forward. Businesses should uphold the freedom of of which were permanent and 91.7% work, responsibility, mutual respect and to this initiative we have been able to association and the effective recognition of the were working full time. healthy staff relationships. We have gather opinions and suggestions from We have launched the first right to collective bargaining; launched our Plan for Equality 2016our team to better understand their Goldcar work environment PRINCIPLE 04 Our employees’ wellbeing and 2018, aimed at achieving effective needs and to improve our HR policies. survey. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all motivation are crucial to our equality between women and men, forms of forced and compulsory labour; performance, so it is important for us to and our plan for the Integration of In March, we launched Sponsor Goldcar’s quarterly newsletter, on the 2015 260 offer them good quality jobs. For this People with Disabilities. Both plans an Office, an initiative to promote other hand, is an informative online PRINCIPLE 05 have marked a turning point in our teamwork and engagement among gazette made available to staff. The Businesses should uphold the effective abolition approach to sustainability and have employees at the headquarters and at CEO participates in the publication, of child labour; reaffirmed our commitment to gender the offices, despite the distance. All sharing news and updates with staff. PRINCIPLE 06 equality and the integration of people the participants designed a roadmap This contributes to more dynamic Businesses should uphold the elimination of with disabilities. to identify needs and options for communication between staff and discrimination in respect of employment and improvement at the different Goldcar management. Moreover, a system of occupation. Furthermore, we conducted the first workplaces. monthly meetings has been established 2014 In 2016, we hired 200 new employees, resulting in a 28% growth of our team. Goldcar work environment survey and all our employees were invited to participate. The main objective of this In addition, we continue promoting other initiatives such as the Have in every department to improve the exchange of relevant information between employees. 180 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.65 p.64 STAFF MEMBERS BY COUNTRY AND GENDER STAFF SHEET BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE as of 31st december as of 31st december 2014 2015 2016 2016 68.5% 1 Spain 333 174 322 189 374 236 379 247 166 122 % permanent staff 4 6 2 Portugal 23 32 27 34 38 47 2015 3 Italy 33 25 46 37 85 59 PERMANENT 3 305 177 131 101 67.5% % permanent staff TEMPORARY 4 France 18 13 22 21 2 1 5 2014 5 Greece 15 4 15 3 263 164 126 67 68.9% 6 Croatia 8 1 11 3 % permanent staff STAFF SHEET BY WORKING HOURS as of 31st december STAFF DISTRIBUTION BY AGE GROUP AND GENDER as of 31st december 2016 2014 2015 2016 91.7% Total Total Total % full time staff 54 22 315 523 Under 30 74 50 124 84 56 140 103 102 205 2015 FULL TIME 30 to 50 280 169 449 311 211 522 396 255 651 91.5% 44 17 234 419 PART TIME % full time staff 50 years 35 12 47 41 11 52 46 12 58 2014 91.0% 35 21 196 368 % full time staff STAFF SHEET BY CATEGORY COMPARISON BETWEEN GOLDCAR’S as of 31st december ENTRY LEVEL SALARY AND THE LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE FOR 20161 EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER 2.21 OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF 1.34 1.28 2016 14 110 790 1.05 1.01 2015 14 91 609 2014 12 86 522 Spain Portugal France Greece Croatia 1There is no minimum wage in Italy 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.67 p.66 EQUALITY IN % FEMALE STAFF BY CATEGORY AND COUNTRY THE WORKPLACE as of 31st december 2014 2015 2016 At Goldcar we understand that our this plan we want to achieve real and Executive Line Other Executive Line Other Executive Line Other employees are at the core of our effective equality between men and Total Total Total officers managers staff officers managers staff officers managers staff business and that their happiness and women, fight discrimination and we Spain 25.0% 31.9% 35.0% 34.3% 14.3% 37.7% 37.6% 37.0% 15.4% 32.9% 40.0% 38.7% wellbeing have a direct effect on our seek to further underline equality as success. That’s why one of our priorities one of our most important values. Portugal 42.9% 60.4% 58.2% 37.5% 58.5% 55.7% 33.3% 57.9% 55.3% is to guarantee a culture of respect 2016-2018 Italy 42.9% 43.1% 43.1% 36.4% 45.8% 44.6% 20.0% 42.4% 41.0% and to prevent any discrimination in The Plan for Equal Opportunities, LINES OF ACTION France 50.0% 40.7% 41.9% 20.0% 52.6% 48.8% the workplace. This is reflected in our Diversity of Gender, Race and Culture Code of Ethics, which is applicable to also seeks to promote the work-life 1. Respecting diversity. Greece 25.0% 21.1% 21.4% 16.7% all company staff and includes an Ethics balance of our employees and other Croatia 20.0% 11.1% 30.0% 21.4% Channel where any discriminatory employees directly or indirectly related to 2. Guaranteeing the situations may be reported. our operations. Gender equality is at the quality of employment. Please note: All company executive officers are based in Spain, which is the core of our plan and we are determined location of Goldcar’s headquarters. We have launched our new Plan to make it effective while respecting the 3. Developing the for Equal Opportunities and legislations of the countries where we principle of equal Diversity of Gender, Race and operate and while adopting the best opportunities. EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE Culture for 2016-2018. international practices. (GENDER, RACE AND CULTURE) TARGETS 4. Promoting effective Our commitment to equality has This commitment to equality led us to equality between FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR YEAR TO led us to develop the Plan for Equal define a set of targets to be achieved women and men REACH TARGET Opportunities, Diversity of Gender, before 2016, as well as new targets for within Goldcar Group. Include references to equal opportunities 100% on boarding pack (This is Goldcar) 2017 in Goldcar’s corporate documents Race and Culture for 2016-2018. With 2017 and 2018. % FEMALE STAFF BY CATEGORY as of 31 december 14.3% 30.0% 42.3% Total 2016 40.4% EXECUTIVE OFFICERS LINE MANAGERS OTHER STAFF 14.3% 35.2% 40.1% 25.0% 33.7% 38.1% Total Total 2015 2014 38.9% 37.3% EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER EXECUTIVE LINE OTHER OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF OFFICERS MANAGERS STAFF 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.69 p.68 WORK-LIFE BALANCE PROMOTION INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES At Goldcar we care about the happiness of our staff, and we Another initiative which has been carried out in 2016 is understand that work-life balance plays an important role in Goldcar’s plan for the Integration of People with Disabilities. it. We have therefore implemented flexible working hours in Its aim is to achieve total equality, participation and integration our headquarters, and we make it easy for our employees to of people with disabilities in society and in the job market. request a reduction of working hours and a change of shift In 2016, we PLAN FOR THE INTEGRATION due to family or legal guardianship reasons. Moreover, it is implemented a flexible In 2016, we launched a plan for the Integration OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES. also possible to take morning and/or afternoon only shifts schedule for head of People with Disabilities. LINES OF ACTION to adapt their working hours to their family life and personal office staff. circumstances. The plan establishes a set of actions to reinforce inclusiveness, 1. Comply with the legislations regarding and intends to maximise the potential of disabled people as disabled employees in the countries where Goldcar’s employees and as members of society. we operate 2. Spread Goldcar’s commitment to equality of people with disabilities throughout the organisation PERCENTAGE OF STAFF RETURNING STAFF WITH DISABILITIES BY CATEGORY TO WORK AND RETENTION RATE as of 31st December 2016 3. Raise awareness of disabilities amongst as of 31st December 2016 Goldcar’s leaders (directors and middle OTHER STAFF management) Percentage of staff Staff entitled to parental leave Staff who have taken parental leave returning to work (%) Retention rate % 4. Contribute to the normalisation of disabilities by carrying out awareness raising activities and providing Spain 16 15 16 15 100 93 81 100 information/communication that will favour the elimination of corporate barriers Portugal 1 3 1 3 100 100 100 100 Italy 2 1 2 1 100 100 50 100 5. Have an active participation in projects aimed at people with disabilities France 1 0 1 0 100 0 100 0 2016 2015 2014 Croatia 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 2.0% 2.2% 0.8% 18 employees 16 employees 5 employees Please note: Our staff returning to work percentage is calculated by dividing the total number of staff who returned to work after parental leave by the total number of staff. Our staff retention percentage is calculated by dividing the total number of staff who continue to work for the company 12 months after they have returned to work following a parental leave period by the total number of staff who have returned to work after parental leave during the reporting period. Please note: There are no staff with any type of disability employed as Executive 1In Greece no requests for parental leave have been made in this reporting period. officers and Line managers. EQUALITY IN THE WORKPLACE (INTEGRATION OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES) TARGETS WORK AND FAMILY BALANCE INDICATOR´S PROMOTION TARGETS FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR VALUE INDICATOR´S DEGREE OF Give people with disabilities the chance to work with us Number of hired people with disabilities on a global level 2017 2016 TARGET INDICATOR by hiring 25 people with disabilities on a global level VALUE COMPLIANCE Implementation of flexible working % staff taking advantage of flexible working hours 100.0% 100.0% Take informative actions that increase staff commitment Number of informative actions taken regarding Goldcar’s 2017 hours for head office staff to people with disabilities commitment to integrating people with disabilities 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.71 p.70 COMMITMENT TO TRAINING AREAS PROFESSIONAL NUMBER OF LEADERSHIP HIGH EMPLOYEES AND TEAM SKILLS TECHNOLOGY POTENTIAL OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENT TRAINED MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT LANGUAGES (IT GOVERNANCE) PROFILES PROJECT TRAINING One of Goldcar’s goals is to improve a final assessment where the students +140.2% our team’s abilities and to provide our and Goldcar’s staff can evaluate compared 2016 to 2015 employees with opportunities for personal their experience. The technology 10 42 48 54 6 760 and professional growth. We believe that department oversaw this project, their talent is key to our success and where the participants identified areas ELEARNING PLAN needs to be cultivated, since it provides of improvement and suggested new LINES OF ACTION 2015 18 124 12 3 1 225 us with a competitive advantage. ideas that could be implemented. As a result, the tools for internal messaging 1. Reducing the number In 2016, we increased our were unified to streamline internal of trips by our operations investment in training by 213% communication. staff. In 2015, we developed a Strategic Our new E-Learning plan will 2. Building an alternative INVESTMENT IN TRAINING (€) Training Plan for 2015-2017 aimed at have a positive impact on the to face-to-face training improving the abilities of each team work life balance of employees sessions, while and facilitating promotion and talent and will decrease Goldcar’s maintaining their content 2016 +213.0% 2015 retention. The plan is divided into 5 carbon footprint. compared and quality, and reducing €414,401.31 to 2015 €132,452.95 training areas, which were defined after staff trips. identifying the training needs and areas In 2016, we have developed the of improvement of every team. This plan E-learning training plan 2016-2018, 3. Placing all training led to us launching new initiatives such aimed at reducing the number of staff sessions related to job as the E-learning platform in 2016. trips, and therefore lowering Goldcar’s performance on the TALENT PROMOTION TARGETS carbon footprint. Reducing the E-learning platform, with In addition, we are continuing frequency of staff trips will also have a the aim of making them DEGREE OF our commitment to preparing positive impact on the work life balance available to all employees 2016 TARGET INDICATOR INDICATOR´S VALUE COMPLIANCE university students and to boosting of employees, who will be able to join at any moment and from Development of a new e-learning platform e-learning platform The platform is completed and 100.0% their employability with our Talent training sessions without travelling away every device. with training paths. completed open to all employees Internship Program. Goldcar has several from home. The e-learning platform agreements with different colleges and consists of an internal communications Development of a new e-learning platform 10 courses available 100.0% 100.0% with training paths. business schools, and offers career tool, where different topics and mentoring to the students participating documents of interest are shared with Implementation of Goldcar Talent Internship Program 10 students joining the 18 joined the scholarship 100.0% scholarship program. program in 2016 in this project. The internship includes employees, such as the Code of Ethics. Implementation of Goldcar Talent Internship Program 2 working sessions 3 working sessions 100.0% during 2016 Implementation of Goldcar’s Strategic Training Average training hours per 100.0% 100.0% AVERAGE TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE Plan on a global level member of staff BY GENDER AND BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY as of 31 December 2016 FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC Executive officers Line managers Other staff All staff YEAR TO TARGETS INDICATOR REACH TARGET Provide 3 online training paths via the e-learning platform to all Number of online training paths provided 2017 network staff covering work tools, methods, commercial policy, 40.00 37.00 21.00 18.00 18.00 18.00 19.00 19.00 sales techniques and procedures. 06 2016 THE PEOPLE ANNUAL REVIEW AND BEHIND OUR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUCCESS p.73 p.72 SAFETY AT THE WORKPLACE FREQUENCY INDEX1 2014 2015 2016 The safety of staff is paramount to Goldcar and so prevention policies and services have been put in place in all countries where we operate. Despite increasing our number of employees, in 2016 the Spain 9.4 2.2 0.04 0.1 8.20 0.8 number of accidents resulting in time off work has diminished. Italy 33.0 52.1 2.7 1.6 0.08 0.2 France 1.28 2.0 Every employee regularly receives training on occupational health and safety which is specific to their position. The training is developed by Goldcar, after carrying out a Please note: Our frequency index is calculated by dividing the number of accidents by the total number of hours preliminary risk assessment for all jobs and tasks. In addition, base staff are provided worked multiplied by 1,000,000. 1-Portugal’s frequency index for 2014, 2015 and 2016 has been nil. In Greece and Croatia, the frequency index with statutory safety kits specific to their duties. for 2016 has also been nil. INCIDENT INDEX1 2014 2015 2016 Spain 1,655.3 382.0 2,284.3 815.8 1,436.8 143.7 Italy 5,882.4 9,302.3 21,739.1 10,810.8 1,176.5 1,694.9 France 4,545.5 4,761.9 NO. OF ACCIDENTS RESULTING IN TIME OFF WORK1 Please note: Our incidents index is calculated by dividing the number of accidents by the total number of employees, multiplied by 100.000 1-Portugal’s incident index for 2014, 2015 and 2016 has been nil. In Greece and Croatia, the incident index for 2016 has also been nil. SPAIN 10 1 1 1 1 1 ITALY FRANCE ABSENCE RATE11 2016 15 TOTAL 8 4 10 4 2016 0.5 0.9 3.2 4.9 0.7 1.6 1.2 0.6 2015 Spain Portugal Italy France 26 TOTAL 13 3 3 4 2015 3.0 2.3 2.6 1.6 1.2 2014 23 TOTAL Spain Portugal Italy Please note: our absence rate is calculated by dividing lost working hours by the total number of working hours Please note: Does not include accidents in itinere multiplied by 100. 1No accidents resulting in time off work were recorded in Portugal during either 2014, 2015 or 2016. In 1For the year 2014, there is only standardised data available for Spain, where the value was 2.3. In Greece and addition, there were no accidents resulting in time off work in Greece or Croatia in 2016. Croatia, the absence rate for 2016 was zero. 07 ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.76 p.77 ENVIRONENERGY CONSUMPTION Most of our energy consumption comes from electricity, mainly from the company’s headquarters. With the goal of reducing our electricity consumption, MENTAL we have carried out several measures such as environmental awareness initiatives We have reduced our for staff, and investing in improving our facilities’ energy efficiency. electricity consumption per staff member by In 2016, the diesel consumption per generator has increased due to the 10% compared to 2015. FOOTPRINT installation of new generator sets in the Madrid and Barcelona airport facilities. ANNUAL ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWh)1 SPAIN PORTUGAL ITALY FRANCE GREECE UN GLOBAL HOW WE CARE COMPACT FOR THE This chapter within +56.1% the report covers: ENVIRONMENT 2015 -2016 variations At Goldcar we care about the us to ensure that all our offices and bases +229.3% 2015 -2016 variations PRINCIPLE 7 environment, and minimizing our main carry out good environmental practices Businesses should support a precautionary impacts is at the centre of our business and they allow us to identify areas of approach to environmental challenges. +5.3% strategy and our activities. Once again, improvement that require attention. 2015 -2016 variations PRINCIPLE 08 our headquarters have renewed the Businesses should undertake initiatives to proISO 14.001 certification, helping us to In addition, we seek the help of our staff +22.9% mote greater environmental responsibility. 2015 -2016 variations integrate sustainability into our business to achieve our environmental goals, PRINCIPLE 09 decisions and vision. which is why we developed the Good Businesses should encourage the development +6.7% Housekeeping Practices file in 2014, 2015 -2016 variations and diffusion of environmentally friendly techMoreover, in 2016 we have revised a document that aims to share good 1,791 1,873 38 57 1,999 40 89 nologies. our internal audit model to include environmental practices with them. 193 201 58 247 191 environmental aspects. Auditing allows +15.2% 2014 2015 2016 As a car rental business, we are 2015 -2016 deeply committed to minimizing our 1,984 2,227 2,566 variations environmental impacts. Our goal is We focus on offsetting Please note: Above data was obtained from our consumption data found in invoices. In cases where invoices to compensate the negative impacts greenhouse gas emissions were not available, a consumption estimate has been calculated based on the amount charged by the electricity stemming from our operations by company in each case. There was no consumption of renewable energies. There was no sale or purchase of energy. (GHG) generated by our 1There is no historical data available for Italy. France and Greece offices were opened in 2014. There is no data developing and implementing ecocustomers available for Croatia. friendly initiatives such as the Clean CO2 Project. ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (MWH per staff member) -10.0% 2015 -2016 variations GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT YEAR TO FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR REACH TARGET Renew ISO 14001 certification under the new Standard at head office ISO 14001 certification 2017 2014 2015 2016 3.2 3.1 2.8 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.78 p.79 ANNUAL FUEL CONSUMPTION (l)1 OWN VEHICLE FLEET PETROL AND DIESEL CONSUMPTION WATER GENERATOR SETS DIESEL CONSUMPTION CONSUMPTION AND RECYCLING We control our water consumption levels at our offices and facilities to prevent any leaking which may result in additional -1.5% 2015 -2016 water consumption on our premises. variations Most of our company’s water consumption, in addition to water for sanitary facilities at our headquarters, is used on vehicle +9,145.5% 2015 -2016 washing facilities located at some of Goldcar’s sites. To reduce variations usage of water for washing purposes, some of our facilities are 2,294 2,000 1,971 equipped with water recycling systems that enable us to reuse ND 200 18,491 up to 20% of the water used in every car wash. 2014 2015 2016 +830.1% 2,294.0 2,200.0 20,462.0 2015 -2016 In addition, we hire car washing suppliers to help us maintain our variations fleet. In 2017, we are planning to work more closely with those suppliers using waterless carwash methods. Please note: Above details are for Spain only, which is the only location where Goldcar has any fuel consumption. Own vehicle fleet refers to vehicles used by internal auditors and a further vehicle available for internal transportation at head office. There is no historical data available for 2014. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT TARGETS DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR INDICATOR’S VALUE COMPLIANCE Replacing 50% of the company’s traditional lighting with % of traditional lighting 62.9% 62.9% LED for 2015-2020 replaced by LED Energy audits undertaken throughout the Group No. of audits undertaken 16 in Spain (in accordance 100.0% with Spanish legislation) Conduct energy audits throughout the Group to Detect potential areas for Green fleet increase, new comply with Spanish regulation improvement efficient equipment and energy management improvement, among others. FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC YEAR TO TARGETS INDICATOR REACH TARGET Replace 50% of the company’s traditional lighting with LED for 2015 2020 % of traditional lighting replaced by LED 2020 We have increased the Installation of photovoltaic panels Number of photovoltaic panels 2017 use of recycled water at washing facilities by 14.8% compared to 2015 Reducing the electrical consumption at HQ by 5% vs PY Total electrical consumption at HQ 2018 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.80 p.81 WATER CONSUMPTION SUPPLIED BY THE COUNCIL BOARD 1 (m3) (Used at headquarters, offices and bases, including water usage by the vehicle washing facilities) SPAIN PORTUGAL +36.1% 2016 2015 -2016 63,149 variations 59,470 3,679 +46.1% 2015 2015 -2016 46,411 variations in Spain CO2 emissions per kilometre travelled 40,695 5,716 stemming from our -35.6% rental fleet have been 2014 2015 -2016 GAS EMISSIONS reduced by 4.1% 40,747 variations in Portugal Another of Goldcar’s environmental emissions arising from the services 34,275 6,472 impacts are the greenhouse gas provided to customers through our Please note: Water consumption data is obtained from invoices received by the water boards. In cases where invoices were not available, a consumption estimate has been calculated based on the amount charged by the water company in each case. Data is only available for Spain and Portugal. emissions (GHG), mainly produced by vehicle rental fleet. preservation, but our contribution to a 1The year 2015 includes all locations in Portugal. our customers during vehicle use. In greener and healthier world does not 2016, we have given our customers We are aware of our environmental end there. In 2015, we launched the the chance to get involved in our impact, so in 2016 we added more than Goldcar Blue initiative by purchasing WATER CONSUMPTION VOLUME AND PERCENTAGE OF RECYCLED WATER sustainable strategy by launching our 250 hybrid vehicles to our fleet, as well electric vehicles for our fleets in (litres per number of contracts) carbon emission offset programme. as vehicles that work with alternative Barcelona and Palma de Majorca. Volume of recycled water in vehicle washing facilities (m3) green fuels and electric vehicles. Our Today, we continue to promote Goldcar % water recycled from the total water used To calculate the GHG emissions goal is to contribute to the reduction Blue as an eco-friendly service which produced by our business, we have of GHG emissions worldwide and to sets us apart from our competitors 2014 +13.2% included those arising from electricity become a greener fleet. and we look forward to expanding our 2015 -2016 variations 3,721 consumption in all countries where electric vehicle fleet in the future. 9.1% Goldcar is currently based and those Goldcar’s carbon emission offset arising from diesel consumption by programme has deepened our 2015 our generator sets. We also included commitment to environmental 3,626 7.8% +14.8% 2015 -2016 -15.6% 2016 variations 2015 -2016 4,164 variations 6.6% GOLDCAR’S CARBON EMISSION OFFSET PROGRAMME 2014 2015 2016 Please note: Our recycled water levels have been calculated based on the water 0.042 0.044 0.051 used by each vehicle washing facility, their technical specifications (percentage of reused water per wash) and the number of washes completed during the year. In 2016, we have continued to fight climate change by launching a new initiative offering our clients the possibility to have emission free transportation. When booking our services, customers can choose to compensate for their CO2 emissions with a small WATER CONSUMPTION REDUCTION economic contribution, therefore obtaining the Clean CO2 Certified label. Their donation is exclusively used to finance a clean energy project in Turkey, where the Balkesir wind FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC INDICATOR YEAR TO power plant provides clean energy benefiting more than 100,000 people. Thanks to this REACH TARGET initiative, our customers have the chance to neutralize the CO2 emissions caused by their Devise a plan/procedure for using waterless car wash practices Number of vehicles cleaned with 2017 transportation whilst boosting the local economy of a local village in the region. waterless practices 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.82 p.83 TOTAL EMMISSIONS BY SCOPE (CO2eq tonnes)1 EMISSIONS REDUCTION 2015-2016 2014 2015 2016 variations INDICATOR’S DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 1) 27.2 54.9 52.1 -5.0% VALUE COMPLIANCE Diffuse HFC emissions (R-22) 27.2 54.3 0 Ensuring that 70% of Goldcar's vehicle fleet complies with % of Goldcar's vehicle fleet compliant with 76.0% 100.0% Euro VI emission regulations. Euro VI emission regulations. Diesel for generator sets ND 0.6 52.1 9,146.0% Extension of Goldcar's green fleet No. of green vehicles in Goldcar's vehicle fleet 255 100.0% Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 2) 734.4 890.8 1,026.4 15.2% Electricity 734.4 890.8 1,026.4 15.2% Indirect emissions of CO2eq (Scope 3)1 88,301.44 89,729.44 101,338.48 12.9% Vehicle rental fleet 88,301.44 89,729.44 101,338.48 12.9% FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC TOTAL 89,063.0 90,675.1 102,417 12.9% YEAR TO TARGETS INDICATOR Sources: Our greenhouse gas emissions estimate expressed in CO2eq tonnes has been calculated by considering the electric energy usage, diesel fuel consumption by the REACH TARGET generator sets, fluorinated greenhouse gas leaks and kilometres travelled by Goldcar’s rental vehicle fleet. Regarding scope 1 emissions, we have used the R-22 emission factor included in the 4th Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the emission factor for diesel fuels within our premises was obtained Addition of hybrid vehicles to Goldcar's vehicle fleet No. of hybrid vehicles in Goldcar's vehicle fleet 2017 from the emissions factor document Registration of carbon footprint, compensation and projects for absorption of carbon dioxide, published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment (MAGRAMA). Reducing the average emissions of NOx by Goldcar’s total fleet by 7% Average emissions per Km 2017 Please note: Regarding scope 2, we have used the emission factor for electricity consumption published by the National Energy Commission for years 2014, 2015 and 2016. Regarding scope 3 emissions, we have used the gC02 per km available for each vehicle model in Goldcar’s fleet and, in certain cases, an average of the total fleet emissions. 1-Gas emissions estimate does not include those gases generated by electricity consumption in Croatia. In addition, it does not include those emissions generated by our own vehicle fleet because data for petrol and diesel consumption are not available individually. Regarding scope 3, gas emissions generated by diffuse HFC only include HFC leaks at our headquarters. MATERIALS EMISSION INTENSITY Goldcar’s main paper consumption is related to office supplies Scope 2 CO2eq tonnes per staff member and products used with the purpose of maintaining our fleet of vehicles. Other materials include engine oil and chemicals such as detergents used in washing vehicles, polishing and air -10.0% 2015 -2016 fresheners, to name a few. variations In 2016, we observed a reduction in the consumption of paper in our offices. Furthermore, since this year all the paper (DIN A4) at our headquarters is certified ecological paper. 2014 2015 2016 We also reduced our consumption of antifreeze, chemical 1.18 1.25 1.12 products and engine oil in our facilities. EMISSION INTENSITY Scope 3 gCO2eq per kilometre -4.1% 2015 -2016 variations We have reduced our paper consumption 2014 2015 2016 per employee by 60.4% 118.2 115.5 110.8 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.84 p.85 PAPER CONSUMPTION (kg) PRODUCTS CONSUMED IN GOLDCAR FACILITIES1 (l) SPAIN PORTUGAL ITALY FRANCE GREECE CROATIA Antifreeze consumed 2016 7,823.7 -28.3% 2015 -2016 variations -49.3% 2015 -2016 variations 4,897 615.0 1,932.7 376.5 2.5 376.5 2014 2015 2016 1,100 1,060 760 2015 15,436.1 Chemicals -0.3% 2016 2015 -2016 19,918 variations 10,818.1 489.5 4,128.5 364 2015 2014 4,231.9 19,970 2014 -54.7% 2015 -2016 +25.6% 2015 -2016 -53.2% +3.4% 2015 -2016 2015 -2016 20,343 variations variations variations variations in Spain in Portugal in Italy in France 1Our product consumption corresponding to workshops only represents Goldcar’s Spanish operations. In all 3,175.2 301.2 755.5 countries except Spain, our suppliers are responsible for purchasing all cleaning and antifreeze products. PAPER CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYER ENGINE OIL CONSUMED IN GOLDCAR FACILITIES1 (l) Paper consumption per employer (kg/employer) SPAIN PORTUGAL ITALY -14.9% -60.4% 2015 -2016 -13.5% 2015 -2016 variations 2015 -2016 2016 2016 8.6 variations variations in Spain 19,800 17,800 800 1,200 -23.1% 2015 -2016 variations in Portugal 2015 2015 23,272 21.6 20,568 1,040 1,664 -27.9% 2015 -2016 variations in Italy 2014 2014 23,898 6.8 21,194 832 1,872 1During 2015 and 2016, the consumption of engine oil in France, Greece and Croatia was zero. 07 2016 ENVIRONMENTAL ANNUAL REVIEW AND FOOTPRINT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.86 p.87 WASTE MANAGEMENT In 2016, we have continued our efforts to separate waste Regarding to the tires all of our suppliers are members of in almost all our premises, in compliance with local waste official Integrated Management Systems (IMS). IMSs are management regulations in each country where we operate. responsible for the retirement and recycling of the tires All the waste produced by Goldcar is currently managed by according to applicable law in each European country. waste management companies who respect the applicable According to this, all waste tires generated by Goldcar in regulations and carry out correct management methods. Europe have been reused, recycled or energetically recovered. WASTE PRODUCTION BY TYPE (SPAIN) 2015-2016 2015 2016 variations Solid pollutants (t) 1.0 1.2 20.0% Non-hazardous solids (t) 53.5 53.5 0.0% Oil (t) 5.2 2.5 -51.9% Hydrocarbon sludge (t) 40.4 40.4 0.0% Organic sludge (t) 50.0 50.0 0.0% Cardboard (t) 2.9 2.9 0.0% Plastic (t) 0.8 0.8 -2.5% Electronic waste (t) 0.3 1.0 233.3% Tyres (u) 8.0 7.1 -11.4% Total 162.1 159.4 -1.7% NON-HAZARDOUS SOLID WASTE PRODUCED (OTHER COUNTRIES (t)1 2015-2016 2015 2016 variations Portugal 1.2 1.2 0.0% Italy 1.6 1.6 0.0% France 0.4 0.4 0.0% Greece 0.9 0.9 0.0% Total 4.1 4.1 0.0% 1There is no data available for the remaining countries where Goldcar currently has office WASTE MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT TARGETS INDICATOR’S DEGREE OF 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR VALUE COMPLIANCE Internal waste management audit and detect areas for Number of offices audited and detected 47 100.0% improvements areas of improvement 08 SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS 08 2016 SUPPLIER ANNUAL REVIEW AND RELATIONSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.90 p.91 SUPPLIER PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL LOCAL SUPPLIERS FOR EACH COUNTRY 2016 RELATIONSHIPS SPAIN 95.9% PORTUGAL 91.9% ITALY 84.2% GREECE 65.6% FRANCE 66.6% CROACIA 60.0% INCORPORATION OF CSR CRITERIA DURING THE SUPPLIER PROCUREMENT PROCESS TARGETS DEGREE OF INDICATOR’S UN GLOBAL Goldcar has established commercial vehicle maintenance and management 2016 TARGETS INDICATOR COMPLIANCE VALUE COMPACT relationships with various local services at Goldcar’s own sites. WITH TARGET companies in a wide range of industries Including CSR related clauses in at least 30% of our % of outsourced supplier agreements 30.0% 100.0% This chapter within the report covers: within the locations where we operate, Our suppliers are selected based on strict outsourced supplier agreements including CSR related clauses resulting in a total cost of €487.9 million criteria concerning, among other aspects, Including CSR related clauses in 100% of our fuel % of fuel supplier agreements including 100.0% 100.0% in 2016. their quality, company solvency and their supplier agreements CSR related clauses capacity to fulfil the orders or services PRINCIPLE 2: Our main suppliers are direct required. Most of our contracts are Businesses should make sure that they are not manufacturers and import companies awarded after a bidding process where FUTURE TARGETS ON THIS TOPIC complicit in human rights abuses. representing the vehicle models in our a minimum of three firms are invited to YEAR TO fleet. Fuel distributors are also relevant put forward their best proposal. TARGETS INDICATOR REACH TARGET suppliers. Include CSR related clauses in at least 60% of our outsourced % of environmentally screened suppliers 2017 We established relationships based on supplier agreements in 2017 Regarding our subcontractors, some of mutual trust and transparency which We prioritise local suppliers our most important suppliers are those are regulated and have clearly defined in order to boost the local connected to key outsourced company procedures set out by our purchase economies of the countries services such as roadside assistance for department and approved by the where we operate customers, customer service (telephone management, pursuant to our ethics MAIN COLLABORATING BRANDS suppliers, social media companies) and code and compliance policy. TOTAL NUMBER OF SUPPLIERS MAIN GOLDCAR SUPPLIERS IN 2016 0.9% VEHICLE MAINTENANCE +27.7% 2015 -2016 variations 0.3% OUTSORCING 2016 2,055 18.8%OTHERS 2.0% FUEL DISTRIBUTORS 2015 78.0%VEHICLE 1,609 MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS Please note: This calculation is based upon the expenditure levels by supplier type 09 GOLDCAR’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2016 09 2016 GOLDCAR’S ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUSTAINABILITY SUSTAINABILITY REPORT REPORT FOR 2016 p.95 p.94 GOLDCAR’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR 2016 SCOPE OF DEFINITION OF CONTENTS THE REPORT AND PREPARATION PROCESS Goldcar’s Corporate Social Responsibility report for 2016 is This report follows the G4 Guidelines of the Global the third report of its kind, and it includes the period between Reporting Initiative and the AA1000SES (2011) stakeholder 1st January and 31st December 2016. All of our operations engagement standard regarding the materiality assessment. involving our parent company, Car Rental Topco S.L, are covered in the report, including those of our subsidiary In addition, key individuals from different management areas firms: Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U, Car Rentals Subsidiary collaborated with us to determine what aspects were truly S.A.U., Goldcar Spain S.L.U, Goldcar Italy S.R.L, Goldcar material to the company. Thanks to their contribution we Fleetco Italy S.R.L., Goldhire Portugal Lda, Goldhire Fleetco have also obtained valuable information about the different Portugal Lda., Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U, Goldcar Fleetco aspects included in the report. The Human Resources and S.A, Goldcar Master S.L., Goldcar France S.à.r.l, Goldcar Customer Service department have coordinated this process. Fleetco France S.A.R.L, Goldcar Hellas S.à.r.l, Goldcar Rental, d.o.o, Pulsar Rent a Car S.L.U. In these regards, 100% of For any questions or queries concerning the content of this the revenue corresponding to 2016 has been included in report, please get in touch with us via the email address this report. csr@goldcar.com. Our environmental performance is included in the report, and it covers all our operations except in those cases where specified. Data related to human resources issues includes all countries where we operate through our own company offices. Data related to franchised offices is not included in the report since Goldcar does not manage or control any of the aspects mentioned in the report pertaining to franchises. 10 2016 GLOBAL REPORTING ANNUAL REVIEW AND INITIATIVE’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS p.97 p.96 GLOBAL G4-14 G4-15 Implementation of the precautionary principle. Initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. 76-86 24 REPORTING G4-16 Memberships of associations. 19 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in the organisation’s conso94 INITIATIVE’S lidated financial statements. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and 30 the Aspect Boundaries. G4-19 Material aspects. 31 TABLE OF G4-20 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect within the organisation. G4-21 Aspect Boundary for each material aspect outside the organisation. CONTENTS Limitations and coverage Internal External Goldcar business Vehicle suppliers Service suppliers Customers Materiality of issues to the business FINANCIAL The following table summarises the general basic and specific contents of the Global Reporting Initiative Financial performance (GRI) in conformity with the G4 standard for the “In accordance Core” option. Presence in the marketplace Establishing CSR criteria when selecting suppliers ENVIRONMENT GENERAL BASIC CONTENTS Materials Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Verification Energy Water Strategy and analysis Emissions G4-1 Statement from the organisation’s most 6-9 Effluents and waste senior decision-maker. SOCIAL WORK PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Organisational profile Employment G4-3 Name of the organisation. 94 Staff and management relationships Occupational health and safety G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. 14-15 Training and education G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. Ctra. Valencia N332, km 115 Edificio Diversity and equal opportunities Goldcar 03550 San Juan, Alicante SOCIAL HUMAN RIGHTS G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation 16-17 Child and forced labour operates. SOCIAL SOCIETY G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 94, Annex I Local communities Anti-corruption strategies G4-8 Markets served. 14-15, 34-35 Unfair competition practices G4-9 Scale of the organisation. Total Assets: 611,105 SOCIAL PRODUCT LIABILITY Total equity and Liabilities: 611,105 Customer health and safety G4-10 Total number of employees. 63-69 Customer satisfaction Customer privacy G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by 100% of Goldcar’s staff were under a colleccollective bargaining agreements. tive agreement in 2014, while only 96% of Good marketing practices their staff were under a collective agreement in 2015 and 2016 since neither Greece nor Payment and other online website transactions' security* Croatia have collective agreements. Use of new technologies to improve the services offered to customers (i.e., G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. 90-91 jumping the queue and improving vehicle delivery times, thus improving customer contact*) G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting There were no significant changes during period. the reporting period. *Non GRI aspect 10 2016 GLOBAL REPORTING ANNUAL REVIEW AND INITIATIVE’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS p.99 p.98 G4-22 Effects of any restatements of informaThis report includes the following restateG4-26 Organisation’s approach to stakeholder tion provided in previous reports and the ments of information for the reasons stated engagement. reasons. below: G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have benn The total C02 emissions generated by raisen through stakeholder engagement. diesel combustion in generator sets in 2015 has been modified. This is because of the update of the fuel factor emission in the Registration of carbon footprint, Stakeholders Main communication and dialogue channels Main identified issues compensation and projects for absorption of carbon dioxide, published by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and EnviShareholders Board of Directors meetings. Financial performance, impact on the labour market, energy conronment (MAGRAMA). Management meetings. sumption, mitigation of climate change and compensation for CO2 Regular reporting. emissions, quality employment, promoting occupational health and safety, professional development, preventing discrimination, child G4-23 Significant changes in the scope and coveraThere have been no significant changes to and forced labour, anti-corruption strategies, safe services, customer ge of every aspect in the Scope and Aspect the report's scope and coverage. satisfaction. Boundaries. Customers Counter service. Financial performance, responsible supplier selection, energy and Stakeholder engagement Website, social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and materials consumption, quality employment, staff and management blog. relationships, promoting occupational health and safety, preventing Customer service (call centre and roadside assistance, email discrimination, child and forced labour, security staff training on huG4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the orga29 nisation. (Contact Goldcar)). man rights, anti-corruption strategies, preventing unfair competition Media publications and newsletter. practices, safe online payments. G4-25 Basis for stakeholder identification. Goldcar has identified its stakeholders using criteria such as: dependence (upon its stakeStaff Intranet and noticeboards . Quality employment, staff and management relationships, professioholders or otherwise), responsibility towards Ethics channel. nal development, promoting equal opportunities, responsible supplier them, proximity and influencing power. Specific notifications: email, newsletters, team meetings, etc. selection, impact on the labour market, energy consumption, mitigation of climate change, preventing discrimination, child and forced labour, anti-corruption strategies. Suppliers and Direct contact with the purchase manager. Secure online payments, preventing child and forced labour, quality contractors Agreement type documentation. employment, responsible supplier selection, water and energy consumption, mitigation of climate change, customer satisfaction, good marketing practices. Rental agencies Direct contact with sales representatives, legal and customer Impact on the labour market, responsible supplier selection, mitigation service managers. of climate change, staff and management relationships, quality emMarketing agreements. ployment, correction of discrimination issues, freedom of association. Franchisees Direct contact with the franchise manager. No answers were received from this group of stakeholders. Agreement type documentation. Regular Goldcar meetings and notifications. Local communities Website, social networks (Facebook, Twitter, Instagram) and Financial performance, impact on the labour market, mitigation of blog. climate change, quality employment, data privacy, preventing unfair Media publications and newsletter. competition practices, regulation compliance. Meetings with local entities and associations’ representatives. Airport operators Direct contact with office staff. Secure online payments, data privacy, customer satisfaction, safe serAgreement type documentation. vices, good marketing practices, use of new technologies to improve the services offered to customers, occupational health and safety, staff and company relationships, responsible supplier selection. Public authorities Direct contact with legal representatives and other Goldcar Preventing unfair competition practices, customer satisfaction, envidepartments. ronmental or social issues, complaints procedure, quality employment, Administrative notifications. waste management, responsible supplier selection. Public notifications made by the authorities. Report profile G4-28 Reporting period. 2016 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 2015 G4-30 Report cycle: Goldcar prepares its corporate social responsibility report on an annual basis. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the 94 report or its contents. G4-32 ‘In accordance’ option chosen by the orga96 nisation and the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. G4-33 Current policy and practice in relation to This report has not been externally audited. requests for external auditing of the report. It has been internally audited to verify the rigorousness of the data reported. 10 2016 GLOBAL REPORTING ANNUAL REVIEW AND INITIATIVE’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS p.101 p.100 Management Supplier’s G4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is environcontemplating the inclusion of these aspects in the procurement of some G4-34 Company's management structure. 18 mental G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that of its new suppliers. assessment were screened using environmental criteria Ethics and integrity G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards 25, 27 and norms of behaviour. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE WORK PRACTICES Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions SPECIFIC BASIC CONTENTS aspects auditing FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Employment G4-DMA Management approach. 62-65 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates 68 after parental leave. Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Staff and G4-DMA Management approach. 62-65 aspects auditing management Financial G4-DMA Management approach. 57-59 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding All issues related to notice periods relationships operational changes. are established in the self-drive vehiperformance cle rental ruling, applicable collective G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated 57 agreements (Italy, Portugal, Malaga, and distributed. Balearic Islands and Madrid), the Spanish Statute of Workers Rights Presence in G4-DMA Management approach. 62-69 and all applicable legislation in force the markeat any given time. G4-EC5 Comparison between entry level Entry level salaries are similar for tplace salary and local minimum wage. females and males in all countries Occupational G4-DMA Management approach. 72-73 where Goldcar is based. health and G4-LA6 Absenteeism, occupational diseases, safety lost days’ rates and total number of There were no fatalities during the work-related fatalities. reporting period. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Training and G4-DMA Management approach. 70-71 education G4-LA9 Average training hours. 70 Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Diversity and G4-DMA Management approach. 66-67 aspects auditing equal opporG4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies Our Board of Directors is made up Materials G4-DMA Management approach. 76, 83-85 tunities and breakdown of employees. of nine members, three of which are legal entities. All Board of Directors G4-EN1 Materials used. 84-85 members and legal entity representatives are male in gender and aged Energy G4-DMA Management approach. 76, 77-78 between 34 and 74 years old. G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the 77-78 Equal salary G4-DMA Management approach. 66-67 company. G4-LA13 Equal Remuneration for Women This information is confidential. G4-EN5 Energy intensity ratio 77 and Men. Water G4-DMA Management approach. 76, 79-80 Assessment G4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is of supplier's contemplating the inclusion of these G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn 80 New suppliers analysed based on aspects in the procurement of some work pracwork practices. of its new suppliers. from source. tices G4-EN10 Total volume of water recycled and 80 reused. Emissions G4-DMA Management approach. 76, 81-83 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emis82 sions (Scope 1). G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions 82 (GHG) (Scope 2). G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emis82 sions (GHG) (Scope 3). G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 82 intensity. Effluents G4-DMA Management approach. 76, 86 and waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste. Total weight of hazardous waste is not available. We hope to have this information for future reports. 10 2016 GLOBAL REPORTING ANNUAL REVIEW AND INITIATIVE’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS p.103 p.102 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE HUMAN RIGHTS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCT LIABILITY Material External Material External Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions aspects auditing aspects auditing Child labour G4-DMA 24-28 Customer's G4-DMA Management approach. 45 health and G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified No Goldcar centres have currently G4-PR1 Products and services assessed for 45 as having significant risk for incibeen identified as affected by the safety customer's health and safety impact. dents of child labour and measures risk of child labour issues. However, taken to contribute to its effective Goldcar undertakes a comprehensiLabelling of G4-DMA Management approach. 35-38 abolition. ve monitoring of all its staff’s labour goods and conditions in all its workplaces to G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction survey results. 38 services prevent the occurrence of this type of situation. Regarding its suppliers, Good markeG4-DMA Management approach. 27-28, 39-42 Goldcar carries out specific controls ting practices on subcontracted companies’ emG4-PR7 Number of good marketing practices Goldcar has not had any legal ployment paperwork to prevent the or marketing code breaches. breaches in these regards during the occurrence of this type of situation. year 2016. Forced labour G4-DMA 24-28 Customer G4-DMA Management approach. 42 privacy G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identiNo Goldcar centres have currentG4-PR8 Claims concerning customer privacy 42 fied as having significant risk for ly been identified as affected by and personal data loss. incidents of forced or compulsory the risk of forced labour issues. labour, and measures to contribute However, Goldcar undertakes a to its elimination. comprehensive monitoring of all its staff’s labour conditions in all its workplaces to prevent the occurrence of this type of situation. Regarding its suppliers, Goldcar carries out specific controls on subcontracted OTHER NON GRI ISSUES companies’ employment paperwork to prevent the occurrence of this type of situation. External Assessment G4-DMA Management approach. Among its future goals, Goldcar is Material aspects Description Direct page or answer Omissions contemplating the inclusion of these auditing of suppliers’ G4-HR10 New suppliers analysed based on aspects in the procurement of some human rights of its new suppliers. Payment and other online website Management approach. 39-42 human rights compliance. compliance transactions security Procedures implemented by the company to 39-42 ensure secure payments from the website. Use of new technologies to improve the services Management approach. 36, 39-42, 58 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SOCIETY offered to customers Number of followers on social media networks 36 and visits to our website resources. Material External Technology initiatives to simplify customer 39-42, 58 Indicators Description Direct page or answer Omissions service. aspects auditing Local comG4-DMA Management approach. 48 munities G4-SO1 Operations with implemented local 48-53 community engagement, impact assessments and development programs. AntiG4-DMA Management approach. 24-28 corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on 28 strategies anti-corruption policies and procedures. Unfair G4-DMA Number of unfair competition 27-28 competition claims. G4-SO7 During 2016, we have not had any practices unfair competition claims. p.104 ANNEX 1 CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND DIRECTOR’S REPORT 2016 WITH THE AUDITOR’S REPORT Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and its subsidiaries Consolidated Annual Accounts 31 December 2016 Director’s Report 2016 (With the Auditor’s Report Theron) (Translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails) 2 KPMG Auditores, S.L. Edificio Oficentro Avda. Maisonnave, 19 03003 Alicante We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. (Translation from the original in Spanish. In the event of discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails.) Opinion In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated annual accounts give a true and fair view, in all material Independent Auditor's Report on the Consolidated Annual Accounts respects, of the consolidated equity and consolidated financial position of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries at 31 December 2016 and of their consolidated financial performance and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as To the Shareholders of adopted by the European Union and other provisions of the financial reporting framework applicable in Car Rentals Topco, S.L. Spain. Report on the Consolidated Annual Accounts Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements We have audited the accompanying consolidated annual accounts of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. (the The accompanying consolidated directors’ report for 2016 contains such explanations as the Directors “Company”) and its subsidiaries, which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. consider relevant to the situation of the Group, its business performance December 2016 and the consolidated Statement of Income and Other Consolidated Comprehensive and other matters, and is not an integral part of the consolidated annual accounts. We have verified Income, consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the that the accounting information contained therein is consistent with that disclosed in the consolidated year then ended, and consolidated notes. annual accounts for 2016. Our work as auditors is limited to the verification of the consolidated directors’ report within the scope described in this paragraph and does not include a review of Directors' Responsibility for the Consolidated Annual Accounts information other than that obtained from the accounting records of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries. The Company's Directors are responsible for the preparation of the accompanying consolidated annual accounts in such a way that they give a true and fair view of the consolidated equity, consolidated KPMG Auditores, S.L. financial position and consolidated financial performance of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and subsidiaries in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (IFRS-EU) and other provisions of the financial reporting framework applicable to the Group in Spain, and for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated Miguel Ángel Paredes Gómez annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 7 April 2017 Auditor's Responsibility (Signed on original in Spanish) Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated annual accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with prevailing legislation regulating the audit of accounts in Spain. This legislation requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated annual accounts are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated annual accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated annual accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the preparation of the consolidated annual accounts by the Company's directors in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated annual accounts taken as a whole. Entered into the Spanish Official Register of Auditors with number S0702, and the KPMG Auditores S.L., sociedad española de Spanish Institute of Registered Auditors’ list of companies with reference No. 10. responsabilidad limitada y firma miembro de la red KPMG Filed at the Madrid Mercantile Registry in volume 11,961, sheet 90, section 8, page de firmas independientes afiliadas a KPMG International number M-188,007, entry number 9 Cooperative (“KPMG International”), sociedad suiza.. Tax identification number (NIF): B-78510153 Car Rentals Topco S.L. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Annual Accounts 31 December 2016 Consolidated Directors’ Report Year 2016 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ended 31 december 2016 and 2015 INDEX NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Thousands of Euros Assets Notes 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Non-current assets: Goodwill 4 187,598 187,598 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 Intangible assets 5 24,695 22,690 Property, plant and equipment 6 98,822 76,494 Consolidated Statement of Income and Other Consolidated Comprehensive Income for the Financial investments 2,034 1,022 period ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 Deferred tax assets 10 1,190 945 Total non-current assets 314,339 288,749 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 Current assets: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 December 2016 Inventories 1,182 985 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016. Trade and other receivables 7 12,202 17,138 Current tax assets 10 5,776 4,456 Financial investments 7 82,383 87,221 Prepayments 10,737 12,718 Index: Cash and cash equivalents 184,486 174,022 Total current assets 296,766 296,540 Total assets 611,105 585,289 1. General information and Group Companies 5 2. Basis of presentation of the consolidated annual accounts and consolidation principles 7 Equity: 3. Significant accounting policies 14 Share capital and share premium 8 215,000 215,000 Consolidated reserves 8 20,410 (1,828) 4. Business combinations and Goodwill 26 Parent Company reserves (69) Comprehensive result for the period 11 24,512 22,169 5. Intangible assets 28 Conversion differences 7 6. Property, plant and equipment 29 Total equity 259,860 235,341 7. Trade and other receivables and Financial investments 31 Non-current liabilites: Provisions 14-c 961 955 8. Consolidated net equity and equity 31 Financial debt 9 301,274 303,332 9. Financial debt and Derivatives 33 Derivatives 9 183 277 Deferred tax liabilities 10 219 10. Public Administrations and tax position 35 Other non-current liabilities 9 126 123 Total non-current liabilities 302,544 304,906 11. Income and expenses 38 Current liabilites: 12. Related parties balances and transactions 43 Provisions 1,001 1,439 13. Segment information 44 Financial debt 9 5,607 4,457 Trade and other payables 14 26,512 23,002 14. Other information 44 Personnel 11 1,630 1,892 Current tax liabilities and other balances with Public Administrations 10 6,651 4,780 Customer advances 1,892 3,077 Accruals 2,578 2,187 Other current liabilities 2,830 4,208 Total current liabilities 48,701 45,042 Total equity and liabilities 611,105 585,289 Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the year ended 31 December 2016. Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails 1 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss and Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Thousands of Euros Income for the period ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement Notes 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Cash flow from operating activities Thousands of Euros Consolidated profit before tax 28,534 30,817 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss Notes 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 Negative consolidation differences 4 Financial cost recognised in income statement 9 25,659 26,289 Financial income recognised in income statement (328) Revenue11 309,382 288,908 Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs 5, 6 and 11 71,563 69,853 Income from services 255,066 237,399 Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 5, 6 and 11 86 (4,394) Income proceeds from the sale of vehicles 54,316 51,509 Others 278 671 Other operational income 4,872 3,669 Cash flow 125,770 122,908 Cost of vehicles sales (54,316) (51,509) Movement in working capital Cost of sales (11,938) (21,980) Change in trade receivables 648,000 303 Personnel expenses 11 (28,087) (22,961) Change in trade payables 6,551 (1,689) Other operating expenses 11 (90,861) (71,557) Change in other net assets 3,731 (731) Adjusted EBITDA 129,052 124,570 Cash flows from operations 136,700 120,791 Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs 5, 6 and 11 (71,563) (65,052) Others cash flows: Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 5, 6 and 11 (86) (407) Interest paid Adjusted EBIT 57,403 59,111 Interest paid 9 (22,167) (22,264) Other non recurring income and expenses 11 (3,507) (2,241) Interest recovered 350 328 Profit/loss From Continuing Operations 53,896 56,870 Income tax received (paid) 10 (8,383) (9,306) Financial income 11 350 328 Net cash flows from operating activities 106,500 89,549 Financial costs 11 (25,659) (26,289) Investing activities Exchange gains or losses (53) (92) Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets, property and equipment. 5, 6 and 7 298,697 300,312 Finacial profit/loss (25,362) (26,053) Payment for investment in intangible assets, property and equipment 5, 6 and 7 (389,949) (336,411) Profit/loss before tax 28,534 30,817 Other investments (1,023) (309) Income tax 10 (4,022) (8,648) Net cash flows used in investing activities (92,275) (36,408) Profit for the period 24,512 22,169 Financing activities Payments made for redemption of long-term bank loans 9 (3,750) (5,966) Others changes (11) (60) Net cash flows from/used in financing activities (3,761) (6,026) Thousands of Euros Net cash flows in cash and cash equivalents 10,464 47,115 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income Notes 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 Change from amendments to scope of consolidation Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 174,022 126,907 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 184,486 174,022 Translation differences of financial statements of foreign operations 7 Other comprehensive income, net of taxes 7 Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow for the year ended on 31 december 2016. Total comprehensive income for the period 24,519 22,169 Profit/Loss attributable to minority interests Profit/Loss attributable to the Parent Company 24,512 22,169 Profit/Loss attributable to minority interests Profit/Loss attributable to the Parent Company 24,519 22,169 Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the year ended on 31 december 2016. Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails 2 3 NOTES Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year Car Rentals Topco S.L. and Subsidiaries ended 31 december 2016 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016 Conversio 1. General information and Group Companies Share Profit/Loss n Thousands of Euros Notes Share Capital Premium Reserves for the Year differences Total Balance at 1 January 2016 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 22,169 235,341 235,341 Car Rentals Topco S.L.U. (hereinafter the Parent Company) was incorporated in Spain, in compliance with Spanish Corporate Law, on 4 September 2014 under the name of Nuevo Impulso Comercial 21, S.L. for an indefinite period Total comprehensive income for the year 2016 11 24,512 7 24,519 of time. The Parent Company is registered in the Mercantile Registry of Barcelona under the Fiscal I.D. BOther changes in equity 54806971 and the legal address of the company is in to Selva, 4, Prat del Llobregat (Barcelona). Distribution of profit for the year 22,169 (22,169) Balance at 31 December 2016 21,500 193,500 20,341 24,512 7,000 259,860 In accordance with its Articles of Association, the purpose of the Parent Company is: Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 december 2016. 1. The acquisition, holding, administration, swap and disposal of all types of securities including public, private, national and foreign securities. Particularly, its main activity is the acquisition, by subscription swap or any other way, of partnership shares and financial assets, as well as taking part in the establishment, development CAR RENTALS TOPCO S.L. AND SUBSIDIARIES and control of any company or entity. Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended 31 december 2015 2. The acquisition, holding, disposal, selling, renting, third-party transfers and exploitation of any class of motor vehicles with or without a driver. Conversio 3. The repair, maintenance and technical assistance of all kinds of motor vehicles. Share Profit/Loss n Thousands of Euros Notes Share Capital Premium Reserves for the Year differences Total Balance at 1 January 2015 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 213,172 4. Taking part in companies whose purpose wholly or partly extends to the aforementioned areas of activity, in order to develop the Parent Company’s own purpose by means of subscribing their shares, founding or Total comprehensive income for the year 2015 Other changes in equity 11 22,169 22,169 increasing their share capital or acquiring them under any legal title. Distribution of profit for the year (1,828) 1,828 The main activity of the Parent Company in 2016 consisted of holding 100% of the shares of the company Car Balance at 31 December 2015 21,500 193,500 (1,828) 22,169 235,341 Rentals Parentco S.L.U. as well as that generated by the function of head of the Group. Consequently, the Parent Notes 1 to 14 described below are part of the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Company is the parent of a group of companies which, along with itself, comprise the Goldcar Group (hereinafter for the year ended 31 december 2016. the Group). The main activity performed by the Goldcar Group in 2016 has been the provision of services related to the rental of vehicles which is included in the purpose of the Group. Translation of a report originally issued in Spanish, In the event of a discrepancy, the Spanish-language version prevails Subsidiaries The companies in which the Parent Company takes part in are considered subsidiaries. The only direct participation the Parent Company holds is over Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. which has a book value of EUR 215,003 thousand. The rest of the shareholdings are indirect through Car Rentals Parentco, S.A.U. 4 5 NOTES The most significant information related to the subsidiaries at 31 December 2016 is detailed below: 2. Basis of presentation of the consolidated annual accounts and consolidation principles Registered Company Main activity Ownership office 2.1 Regulatory financial reporting framework applicable to the Group Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. Share Holding Spain 100% Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U. (*) Share Holding Spain 100% These consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2016 were formally prepared: Goldcar Spain S.L. Car Rental Spain 100% • By the Directors of the Parent Company, on 28 March 2017. Moreover, they will be submitted for Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. Share Holding Italy 100% approval of the Sole Shareholder where they are expected to be approved without any modifications. Goldcar Italy S.r.L. Car Rental Italy 100% Acquisition and Car Rental to • In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards adopted by the European Union Goldcar Fleetco Italy S.R.L. Spain 100% Group (hereinafter, EU-IFRSs), in conformity with Regulation (EC) no. 1606/2002 of the European Parliament Goldhire Portugal Lda. Car Rental Portugal 100% and of the Council, that were in force at 31 December 2016. Acquisition and Car Rental to Goldhire Fleetco Portugal Lda. Portugal 100% The principal accounting policies and measurement bases applied in preparing the Group’s Group Acquisition and Car Rental to consolidated annual accounts for the year 2016 are summarised in Note 3. Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. Spain 100% Group Goldcar Fleetco S.A. Car Rental Spain 100% • Taking into account all the mandatory EU-IFRSs accounting principles and valuation criteria that have a significant effect on the consolidated annual accounts. Goldcar Master S.L. Car Rental Spain 100% Goldcar France S.à.r.l. Car Rental France 100% • So that they fairly present the Group’s consolidated equity and financial position at 31 December 2016 Acquisition and Car Rental to and the results of its operations, the changes in consolidated equity and the consolidated cash flows Goldcar Fleetco Fance S.A.R.L. France 100% Group in the year then ended. Goldcar Hellas S.à.r.l. Car Rental Greece 100% Goldcar Rental, d.o.o. Car Rental Croatia 100% However, since the accounting policies and measurement bases used in preparing the Group's consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2016 may differ from those used Pulsar Rentar a Car S.L.U. Car Rental Spain 100% by certain Group companies, the required adjustments and reclassifications were made on consolidation to unify the policies and methods used and to make them compliant with EU-IFRSs. (*) In addition to being a share holding company, Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U. has also signed the financing agreements described in Note 9. • Based on the historical cost basis except for certain items, such as financial instruments that are valued based on their fair value, as detailed in the significant accounting policies adopted by the Group (see Note 3). During the first quarter of 2017, the Group has two additional companies to start the activity in Turkey and Ireland, although at the date of preparation of these annual accounts the impact is not significant. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is There are no companies that being part of the Group have been excluded from the consolidation perimeter except directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an for Group Goldcar Car Rental A.I.E., Goldhire Fleetco Portugal Lda. and Godcar Rental, d.o.o. Its exclusion has asset or a liability, the Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market no significant impact on the fair presentation of the Group’s consolidated equity, consolidated financial position, participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at the consolidated results of operations and consolidated cash flows. A breakdown of the main aspects of the mentioned measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these consolidated entities is provided below: annual accounts is determined on such basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements Thousands of Euros that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realizable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. Carrying amount Registered Indirect Net Equity of investment in office ownership Additionally, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to Parent's books which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable, according to the following description: Group Goldcar Car Rental, A.I.E (*) Alicante 100% (15) Goldhire Fleetco Portugal Lda. (*) Portugal 100% 10 10 Level 1: Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Goldcar Rental, d.o.o. (**) Croatia 75% 6 3 Total 1 13 Level 2: Inputs are Inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (prices) or indirectly (inputs derived from prices); and (*) In 2016 (**) In 2015 Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs referenced to valuation techniques (that are not included in quoted prices described in Level 1). • On the basis of the accounting records kept by the Parent and by the other Group companies. 6 7 NOTES Pursuant to IAS 1 (revised in 2011) “Presentation of Financial Statements”, these consolidated annual Following the regular review process conducted by the Directors of the Parent Company, although these accounts include the following statements for the year ended 31 December 2016: estimates were made based on the best information available at 31 December 2016, events that take place in the future might make it necessary to change these estimates (upwards or downwards) in coming years. • Consolidated statement of financial position. The change in estimates would be carried out prospectively , in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors , recognising the effect of changes in estimates in the • Consolidated statement of profit or loss and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss or in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, as appropriate. • Consolidated statement of changes in equity. • Consolidated statement of cash flows. 2.3 New and revised EU-IFRSs • Notes to the consolidated financial statements. a) Standards and interpretations effective in the current period 2.2 Responsibility for the information and use of estimates These are the new standards, amendments and interpretations that are mandatorily effective in the years subsequent to the calendar year that began on 1 January 2016: The information contained in these consolidated annual accounts is responsibility of the Parent’s Directors. In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors of the Parent Company are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts Mandatory Application of several assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based Standards, amendments and interpretations approved for use in the European in the Years Beginning on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from Union On or After these estimates. Estimates and judgements that most significantly affect the amounts recognised in the Amendments to IAS 1. These amendments include various clarifications 1 January 2016 annual accounts relate basically to the following: relating to disclosures. Amendments to IAS 16 and 38” It clarifies the acceptable methods of amortising 1 January 2016 • The fair value in business combinations. As it is described in Note 3, a business combination took place in 2014 entailing an estimation of the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed in said property, plant and equipment and intangible operation. However, in the opinion of the Directors the amortized cost of substantially all the assets assets. and liabilities assumed by the Group reflected their fair value at the date of acquisition and, therefore, Amendments to IAS 11: Accounting Provides guidance on how to account for the 1 January 2016 it was not necessary to carry out complex valuation techniques nor subjective hypothesis. for acquisitions of interests in joint acquisition of an interest in a joint operation in operations which the activities constitute a business. • The calculation of impairment of goodwill on consolidation. The calculation of the recoverable amount Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Minor amendments to a set of rules. 1 January 2016 of a cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated requires the use of estimates. The Amendment to IAS 27: “Equity The equity method will be allowed in the 1 January 2016 recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. The Group method in separate financial separate financial statements of an investor. generally uses cash flow discounting methods to calculate these values. This requires the directors to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount statements” rate in order to calculate present value. Where the actual future cash flows are less than expected, a Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41: Bearer plants will be measured at cost, rather 1 January 2016 material impairment loss may arise.The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2016 and 2015 “Bearer plants” than fair value. is EUR 187,598 thousand. Details of the impairment test are set out in Notes 3-a and 3-d. Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: These amendments explain how to treat the 1 January 2016 “Disposal or transfer of assets result of these operations in the case of • The useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. As it is explained in Notes 3between an investor and its businesses related to assets. b and 3-c, the Group reviews its estimates of the amortization rates at the end of each year. associate / joint venture” IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments”: This standard replaces the requirements for 1 January 2018 • Assessing whether provisions related to claims in progress should be registered (see Note 14-c). If it is probable for an obligation entailing an outflow of resources to exist at the end of the year, the Group classification, measurement and classifying, derecognising and valuating financial recognizes a provision provided that its amount can be estimated reliably. subsequent amendments to IFRS 9 assets and liabilities and hedge accounting (IAS and IFRS 7. 39). • Assumptions used in the calculation of the fair value of financial instruments, in particular financial IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts This standard regulates revenue recognition 1 January 2018 derivatives. with customers replacing IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and SIC-31. 8 9 NOTES IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39. The new standard changes the model for the b) Standards and interpretations that will take effect from financial year 2017. classification and measurement of financial assets. It also introduces a new impairment model based on expected losses, rather than incurred losses, and measures to closely align hedge accounting with risk Mandatory Application management activities. Financial Years Beginning Standards, amendments and interpretations not approved for use in the European Union from IFRS 15 “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” is the new comprehensive standard for revenue arising Clarifications to IFRS 15 Identification of performance obligations, principal 1 January 2018 from contracts with customers and it supersedes the following revenue Standards and Interpretations upon versus agent, the concession of licenses and their its effective date: accrual at a point in time or over time, as well as certain clarifications to transition rules. • IAS 18 Revenue; Amendment to IFRS 2 Classification and These are limited amendments that clarify specific 1 January 2018 • IAS 11 Construction Contracts; valuation of share-based payments issues such as the effects of accrual conditions on share-based payments to be settled in cash, share• IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes; based payment classification when having net settlement clauses and certain aspects of changes in • IFRIC 15 Agreements for the Construction of Real Estate; the type of share-based payment. • IFRIC 18 Transfers of Assets from Customers; and Amendment to IFRS 4 Insurance It allows entities within the scope of IFRS 4 the option 1 January 2018 contracts of applying IFRS 9 ( overlay approach ) or its • SIC 31 Revenue-Barter Transactions Involving Advertising Services. temporary exemption. The new revenue standard applies to all contracts with customers except those that are within the scope of Amendment to IAS 40 Reclassification of The amendment clarifies that a reclassification of an 1 January 2018 other IFRSs, such as leases, insurance contracts and financial instruments. The central recognition model investment property investment from or to investment property is only is structured around the following five steps: permitted when there is evidence of a change in its use. 1. Identifying the contract with a customer. Improvements to IFRS Cycle 2014-2016 Minor amendments to a set of standards (different 1 January 2018 effective dates). 2. Identifying the performance obligations in the contract. IFRIC 22 Transactions and Advances in This interpretation establishes the transaction date 1 January 2018 3. Determining the transaction period. Foreign Currency for the purpose of determining the exchange rate applicable in transactions with foreign currency 4. Allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. advances. 5. Recognising revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. Modification to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale Clarification regarding the result of these transactions No defined date or contribution of assets between an whether it is business or assets. investor and their associate / joint venture IFRS 16 Leases (IFRS 16) was issued by the IASB in January 2016. In accordance with the provisions of this standard, it will be applicable for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The standard permits its early application to entities that apply IFRS 15 at the initial date of application of IFRS 16 or prior to that date. To date, this standard has not yet been adopted by the European Union. IFRS 16 addresses the accounting treatment, both from the point of view of the lessee and the lessor, of those contracts that are lease contracts or that contain a lease, as defined by the standard. In this regard, it is worth noting the greater detail, compared to the current standard, with which the standard addresses the process of determining whether a contract is or contains a lease. 10 11 NOTES The effects of the adoption of IFRS 16 for contracts in which one acts as lessor or lessee may be 2.4 Basis of consolidation summarised as follows: From the point of view of the lessee, the application of IFRS 16 will mean that most leases are Uniformity of items recognised in the balance sheet, eliminating the distinction between operating and financial leases. The appearance in the balance sheet will generally result in the recognition of an asset (the right to In order to uniformly present the various items composing the accompanying consolidated annual accounts use the leased element) and a financial liability for the payment of rents. The standard includes an for the year ended 31 December 2016, the same accounting policies have been applied to all of the optional exemption for short-term and low-value leases. The income statement will also be affected companies included in the consolidated Group, adjusting when necessary the corresponding annual because total expenditure will normally be higher in the first years of the lease and lower in the latter accounts and financial statements of such companies to bring their accounting policies into line with those years. Furthermore, the current operating expense will be replaced by interest and depreciation of the Group. The effect of the adjustments and reclassifications carried out to this purpose is not significant. (except in those cases where payments are variable). On the other hand, operating cash flows will be higher, to the extent that cash payments for the principal portion of the lease liability will be In this sense, both the Parent Company and its subsidiaries end their financial year on 31 December 2016. classified within financing activities. Subsidiaries From the point of view of the lessor, the accounting registration of a contract that is or that contains a lease will not change significantly. According to the model of consolidation under international accounting standards (mainly IFRS 10, 11 and 12), subsidiaries would be those entities over which the Parent Company is exposed or has rights to variable Regarding the interrelationship between the two standards, IFRS 15 excludes leasing contracts from the returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The scope of this standard. Consequently, the determination of whether a contract entered into after the adoption Parent Company is exposed or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the subsidiary when of IFRS 16 is or contains a lease will determine which of the two standards, IFRS 15 (applicable to contracts the returns that it obtains may vary depending on the economic performance of said entity. for the delivery of goods or provision of services) or IFRS 16 (applicable to leases), will be applied to the corresponding income. Furthermore, IFRS 16 indicates that, in those contracts that are or that contain a Relevant information about the companies included in the consolidated Group is provided in Note 1. lease, IFRS 15 should be applied to assign value to each differentiated component, an especially relevant circumstance in those cases where the contract contains service components and leasing components. Finally, as already indicated, early adoption of IFRS 16 requires that IFRS 15 has also been adopted. Consolidation method Given the relevance and interrelationship between the two standards, the Parent Company has initiated a The annual accounts and financial statements of the subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Consequently, all simultaneous process to analyse how they both impact on the main transactions carried out to date and the of the significant balances and transactions between the consolidated companies have been eliminated possible types of transactions that are expected to be entered into in the coming financial years. upon consolidation. The mentioned process has been structured in the following parts: 2.5 Aspects related to comparative information a) Determination of what types of transactions are subject to both standards. Initiated during the financial year 2016, this work aims to determine: Within the normal exercise of its activity and as part of its strategy, the Group has established various commercial formulas for the fleet disposal, among which is the direct acquisition of vehicles for rental and i. For each segment of activity, determine whether the contracts with their customers are or subsequent sale to third parties, once the estimated period of possession has finalised. This form of fleet is contain leases, as well as what components exist; known within the sector as Risk Fleet . ii. For each segment of activity, what types of contracts signed with their suppliers are or contain During the current financial year, the Group has adapted the accounting policy related to the risk fleet to leases and, if applicable, what components should be differentiated. adapt it to the accounting treatment considering the interpretation of the recently published regulations. b) Determination what would be the accounting registration indicated by IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 for In particular, and in application of the abovementioned interpretation of the mandatory regulations, once the each contract and for each type of contract analysed. fleet is sold, the Group reclassifies it to the Inventories heading on the date on which the change of use is agreed, and, consequently, the income derived from the disposal is presented as part of revenue. c) Given the high volume of contracts for which it would be a lessee, definition of methodologies to standardise the application of judgments and calculation of key data for the accounting registration Furthermore, the Group had recorded certain vehicles subject to repurchase (buy back) agreements in (such as lease terms or interest rates to be used). tangible fixed assets based on the transfer of the significant risks and benefits inherent to their ownership (see note 3 (c)). Based on the interpretation of the recently published regulations mentioned above, also d) Identification of the operational implications at the level of processes and systems. considering its policy of vehicle acquisition and fleet management, as well as the economic substance of the global agreements reached with manufacturers or dealers, the Group has adapted its accounting policy e) Implementation and evaluation of transition options. so that vehicles subject to repurchase agreements are classified as a lease agreement and are accounted for in accordance with the criteria set forth in IAS 17, since, in view of the above factors, there is in general an economic incentive to return the vehicle. The Group has reclassified certain buy back contracts from With respect to other detailed rules and amendments, the Parent Company's Directors have evaluated the property, plant and equipment to operating leases in compliance with current regulations. potential impacts of their future application and consider that their entry into force will not have a significant effect on the consolidated annual accounts. In accordance with current accounting regulations, comparative information for financial year 2015 has been restatement, and therefore figures for this financial year have been modified. However, this change has no Furthermore, the new standards, amendments or interpretations indicated above have not been adopted in impact on the Group's adjusted EBITDA, the net result or the variables that affect the Group's mandatory advance. financial ratios. 12 13 NOTES In particular, the items affected by this change for financial year 2015 have been the following: The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Miles de euros Group to the former owners of the acquire, the equity interests issued by the Group and any other contingent consideration depending on future events or on the meeting of certain criteria in exchange for control of the Cr Dr acquire. Property, plant and equipment (Non-current assets) 60,842 Financial investments (Current assets) 52,177 If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable asset acquired an liabilities Prepayments (Current assets) assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in 8,665 the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquire (if any), the excess is Income proceeds from the sale of vehicles 51,509 recognized immediately in the profit or loss as bargain purchase gain. Cost of vehicles sales 51,509 Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs 4,801 The fees paid to the legal advisers and other professionals that have intervened in the combination, as well Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets 4,801 as all of the internally generated expenses regarding these concepts are not part of the cost of said combination and, therefore, they are charged as an expense on an accrual basis. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as 2.6 Functional currency and currency of presentation the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquire, the equity interests issued by the Group and any other contingent These consolidated annual accounts corresponding to the year ended on 31 December 2016 are presented consideration depending on future events or on the meeting of certain criteria in exchange for control of the in thousands of euros. The functional currency of the Group and of the Parent Company is the euro. acquire. When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities 3. Significant accounting policies resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. The principal accounting policies and principles, as well as valuation criteria used by the Group in preparing these Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments accompanying consolidated annual accounts for the year ended on 31 December 2016, in accordance with are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union, were as follows: adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. a) Business combinations The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify The acquisition of the control of a depending company by the Parent Company is a business combination as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent in which the acquisition method is applied. In subsequent consolidations, the elimination of the investmentconsideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent equity related to the depending companies will be generally carried out based on the figures resulting from settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability applying the acquisition method that is described below at the date control is obtained. is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in Business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method for which the acquisition date profit or loss. and the cost of the combination are determined and calculated. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value, except that: If at the end of the year in which the business combination has taken place the valuation processes that are needed to apply the aforementioned acquisition method cannot be concluded, the accounting of the • Deferred tax asset or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are business combination would be considered to be provisional. These provisional amounts can be adjusted recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 respectively; in the period that is necessary to obtain the required information which cannot exceed one year in any case. The effects of the adjustments made are accounted for retrospectively and they would modify the • Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangement of the acquiree or sharecomparative information if it were necessary. based payment arrangements of Group entered into replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 at the acquisition date; and b) Intangible assets • Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Goodwill Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard. Goodwill arising on business combinations is recognised under the heading “Goodwill” of the consolidated Liabilities assumed include contingent liabilities provided that they represent current obligations arising from statement of financial position. It represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of past events with a fair value that can be reliably estimated. the Group's share of the net identifiable assets of the subsidiary at the date in which the business combination takes places. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquire (If any) over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. 14 15 NOTES For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units Internally-developed intangible fixed assets (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. A cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more These assets included in intangible assets are recorded at cost of production, following the same principles frequently when there is indication that the unit may be impaired. In this sense, a cash-generating unit is as those established in the determination of the production cost of inventories. Intangible assets are included defined as an identifiable group of smaller assets that generates cash flows for the Group that are basically in the consolidated balance sheet at cost of less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. independent from cash flows derived from other assets or groups of them. The expenses incurred in the internal development of software applications and other intangible assets are If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss capitalized to the extent that they are specific and individualized projects that meet the following conditions: is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit to the limit of o The disbursement attributable to the performance of the project can be reliably measured. the higher value between the following: fair value less selling costs, value in use and zero. o The assignment, allocation and distribution over time of project costs are clearly established. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. o There are well-founded reasons for technical success in the performance of the project, both for the case of direct exploitation, and for the sale to a third party of the result of the project once completed, On disposal of the relevant cash-generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the if there is a market. determination of the profit or loss on disposal. o The economic-commercial profitability of the project is reasonably assured. Individually acquired intangible assets o The financing to complete the project, the availability of adequate technical or other resources to Intangible assets acquired individually are initially recognised at acquisition price or production cost. complete the project and to use or sell the intangible asset are reasonably assured. Afterwards, they are valued at cost less any accumulated amortisation and, if applicable, any impairment losses calculated in accordance with the criterion mentioned in the Note 3-d. Intangible assets with an o There is an intention to complete the intangible asset, in order to use or sell it. indefinite useful life are not amortised (goodwill and trademarks) but they are assessed for impairment, at least once a year. The expenses charged to income in prior financial years cannot be subsequently capitalized when the The Group amortises its intangible assets using the straight-line method, distributing the cost of the assets conditions are met. over the estimated useful life years. For the calculation of amortisation charges, the Group has considered the following amortisation rates: c) Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost of acquisition or production, using the same criteria as Amortization for determining the cost of production of inventories. Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less Rate any accumulated depreciation and impairment, if any, as mentioned in Note 3-d. Intangible assets 16.66% Replacements or renewals of complete items that lead to a lengthening of the useful life of the assets or to The Group reviews and adjusts prospectively when the residual value, useful life and method of amortisation an increase in their economic capacity are recognised as additions to property, plant and equipment, and of intangible assets are necessary at the close of each financial year. Changes in the criteria initially the items replaced or renewed are derecognised. Periodic maintenance, upkeep and repair expenses are established are recognised as a change in estimation. recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss on an accrual basis as incurred. Patents, trademarks and similar intangible assets The Group amortises its property, plant and equipment by distributing the cost of the asset on a straightline basis over its useful life. In order to calculate the corresponding amortisation, the Group has considered the following rates of amortisation: Patents, trademarks and similar intangible assets reflect the costs incurred on the acquisition of ownership or rights to use or on their registration. The assets registered under this heading present an indefinite useful life and thus they are not amortised annually. Amortization Rate Computer software Buildings 3% Technical installations and machinery 8% 12.5% Computer software accounts reflect the costs incurred on the acquisition of computer software. The Other installations, equipment and furniture 10% 25% maintenance costs related to computer applications are charged as expenses in the period in which they occur. The amortisation of the computer software is carried out annually on a straight-line basis over a threeInformation technology equipment 25% year period. Motor vehicles 15% 25% Other property, plant and equipment 10% 25% 16 17 NOTES The Group reviews the residual value, useful life and method of amortisation of property, plant and The recoverable amount is calculated as the higher value between fair value less disposal costs and value equipment at the close of each financial year. Changes in the criteria initially established are recognised as in use. In assessing value in use at 31 December 2016, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to a change in estimation. their present value using a post-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks that are specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not The Directors of the Parent Company consider that the carrying amount of the assets does not exceed their been adjusted. recoverable amount, which is calculated on the basis described in Note 3-d. In case of need to recognize an impairment loss for a group of cash-generating units to which it is assigned An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic all or part of a goodwill, it is first reduced the book value of the goodwill relating to that unit. If the impairment benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the disposal loss exceeds the amount of it, then it is reduced in proportion to its book value, the remaining assets of the or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between the sale group of cash generating units, to the limit of the higher of the following: its fair value less selling costs, price less any selling costs and the value in books of the asset and it is recognised in the consolidated value in use and zero. statement of profit or loss. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, circumstance not permitted in the specific case of Nevertheless, in the normal course of its business, the Group directly acquires vehicles for rental and goodwill, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased up to the revised estimate subsequent sale to third parties once their estimated period of possession has finalised. When the of its recoverable amount, recognized as an expense, but so that the increased carrying amount does not mentioned vehicles are sold, they are reclassified to Inventories on the date on which the change of use exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized in is agreed upon and, consequently, the income derived from the disposal is recorded. prior years. That reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income. Vehicles under repurchase agreements e) Operating leases Vehicles under repurchase agreements are those for which the companies comprising the Group and the Lessor accounting records manufacturers or vehicle dealerships have entered into agreements whereby, at the end of the holding period, these assets will or can be bought back by the manufacturers or dealerships. The Group has conveyed the right to use certain assets, mainly motor vehicles, through lease contracts. For acquisitions of vehicles subject to these repurchase agreements, the Group companies assess whether Leases which transfer to third parties substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership, in ownership, in accounting terms, has been transferred under the agreements. If this is the case, the accounting terms, of the assets are classified as finance leases, otherwise they are classified as operating accounting principles described for the remaining items of property, plant and equipment are applied. leases. In essence, all of the leases of the Group are classified as operating. Where ownership, in accounting terms, of the vehicles is not transferred, these assets are recognised as Assets leased to third parties under operating lease contracts are presented according to their nature, operating leases, as described below. applying the accounting policies set out in Note 3-c). At the outset of the agreement, the difference between the initial payment and the fair value of the estimated Operating lease income, net of incentives granted, is recognised in income on a straight-line basis over the repurchase price agreed by the parties is recognised as a prepayment of expenses to be incurred on the lease term. operating lease for the use of these vehicles and is classified under prepayments for current assets. This prepayment is recognised as a lease expense in the consolidated statement of profit or loss under “Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting expenses” on a straight-line basis over the holding period of these Lessee accounting records vehicles. The Group has rights to use certain assets through lease contracts. At the outset of the agreement, the fair value of the repurchase price is recognised separately under “financial investments” and the accounting principles described in letter f) of this Note. Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are classified as finance leases, otherwise they are classified as operating leases. d) Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Lease payments under an operating lease, net of incentives received, are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term under the heading “Other operational expenses” of the consolidated At the end of each reporting period or whether there is any indication of an impairment loss, the Group tests statement of profit or loss, unless another systematic basis of distribution is more representative as it more the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment for impairment to determine whether the adequately reflects the time pattern of lease benefits for the user. recoverable amount of the assets has been reduced to below their carrying amount. At 31 December 31 2016, based on the assessment made on external and internal factors, the Directors of the Parent Company Contingent lease payments are recognised as an expense when it is probable that the Group is going to consider that there are not relevant indications of impairment. In any case, the Group has proceeded to incur in them. estimate the possible loss of value of tangible assets as part of the annual evaluation of goodwill allocated to groups of cash generating units. Operating leases are deemed to be arrangements in which the lessor grants the lessee the right to use an asset during a specific period of time in exchange for a sole payment or a series of payments. These leases The procedure applied by Group management to perform the impairment test consists of ascertaining the cannot be considered finance leases as the ownership of the leased asset and substantially all the risks recoverable amounts calculated for each cash-generating unit. However, whenever possible, in the case of and rewards relating to the leased asset remain with the lessor. property, plant and equipment, impairment is calculated on a case-by-case basis. Where the asset itself does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. The Group identifies as groups of cashgenerating units the assets assigned to each of the companies comprising the Group. 18 19 NOTES f) Financial instruments When the maturity of the loans is subject to express annual renewal at the decision of the lender or the associated terms and the conditions to be fulfilled used to calculate the future borrowing costs cannot be estimated reliably, the aforementioned financing is recognized at nominal value. Financial assets Payable to suppliers and trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value, which Financial assets are initially recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position at the fair value does not vary substantially from their fair value. of the consideration given plus any directly attributable transaction costs. The Group writes-off the financial liabilities only when obligations, specified in the contract that generates The financial assets held by the Group relate to loans and receivables which are financial assets arising them, have been met, cancelled or expired. from the sale of goods or the rendering of services in the ordinary course of the Group's business, or financial assets which, not having commercial substance, are not equity instruments or derivatives, have fixed or determinable payments and are not traded in an active market. Subsequently they are measured Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading at nominal value which, in the opinion of the Parent Company’s Director, does not differ significantly from amortised cost, and the interest income is recognized in consolidated statement of comprehensive income Financial assets or financial liabilities held for trading are those which are classified as held for trading from on the basis of the nominal interest rate. initial recognition. A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it: At least at each reporting date the Group tests its financial assets not measured at fair value through profit o Originates or is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the or loss for impairment. Objective evidence of impairment is considered to exist when the recoverable amount near term of the financial asset is lower than its carrying amount. When such impairment occurs, it is recognized in the consolidated statement of profit or loss. o Forms part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking or In particular, the Group registers impairment losses under the heading “Trade and other receivables” when there is a remote probability to recover the amounts registered under said heading. o Is a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument. The Group derecognises a financial asset when it expires or when the rights to the cash flows from the Financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading are initially recognised at fair value. Transaction financial asset have been transferred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue are recognised as an expense when incurred. asset have been transferred, such as in the firm sale of assets and transfers of commercial credit in “factoring” operations in which the Company has no credit or interest-rate risk, has extended no guarantees or assumed any other type of risk. After initial recognition, they are recognised at fair value through profit or loss. Fair value is not reduced by transaction costs incurred on sale or disposal. Accrual interest and dividends are recognised separately. Conversely, the Group does not derecognise financial assets, but recognises a financial liability for an amount equal to the consideration received, in the assignments of financial assets in which substantially all The Group does not reclassify financial assets or financial liabilities into or out of this category while the risks and rewards associated with ownership of the assets are retained, such as the discounting of notes recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position, except when there is a change in the and “factoring with recourse”. classification of hedging financial instruments. Financial liabilities Determining the fair value of financial assets and liabilities Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value and they are classified in accordance with the content The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is determined as described below: and the substance of the contractual arrangements. o The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities, under standard terms and conditions, which are The main financial liabilities held by the Group are classified as held-to-maturity financial liabilities. Interesttraded in active and liquid markets, will be based on quoted market prices. bearing bank loans are recognized at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Borrowing costs, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are recognized in the o The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities (excluding those mentioned in the paragraph consolidated statement of comprehensive income on an accrual basis using the effective interest method above) will be determined according to generally accepted valuation models on the basis of discounted and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period cash flows using the observable market transaction prices and the quotations of the contributors for in which they arise. similar instruments. The effective interest rate is the discount rate that exactly matches the carrying amount of a financial The Directors of the Parent Company consider that the carrying amount of the financial assets and liabilities instrument to all its estimated cash flows of all kinds through its residual life. For fixed rate financial included in the amortised cost recognised in the current consolidated annual accounts approximates their instruments, the effective interest rate coincides with the contractual interest rate established on the fair value. Furthermore, substantially all of the financial assets and liabilities at 31 December 2016 and 2015 acquisition date plus, where applicable, the fees that, because of their nature, can be equated with a rate correspond to instruments valued at amortised cost. of interest. In the case of floating rate financial instruments, the effective interest rate coincides with the rate of return prevailing in all connections until the date on which the reference interest rate is to be revised for Equity instruments the first time and, therefore, the Parent Company’s Directors consider that the differences arising from the changes in interest rate that could arise will not be material. An equity instrument represents a residual share in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Parent Company are recognised in consolidated equity at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. 20 21 NOTES g) Classification of current and non-current balances i) Revenues and expenses Current assets are assets associated with the normal operating cycle, which in general is considered to be Revenues and expenses are recognized depending on an accrual basis, that is to say, when the actual flow one year; other assets which are expected to mature, be disposed of or be realised within twelve months of related assets and service occurs, notwithstanding the time of occurrence of financial or money flow from the end, financial assets held for trading, with the exception of financial derivatives which settlement resulting from these. Revenues are valued at their fair values of the consideration received, deducting exceeds a year and cash. Assets that do not meet these requirements are mark as non-current assets. discounts and taxes. Similarly, current liabilities are liabilities associated with the normal operating cycle, and financial liabilities Sale revenue is recognised when the Company transfers the significant risks and rewards incidental to the held for trading, with the exception of financial derivatives which settlement exceeds a year, and in general ownership of the sold asset, which include not having effective control over the asset and not being able to all obligations that will mature or be extinguished at short term. All other liabilities are classified as nonmanage it. current liabilities. Revenues associated with the rendering of services are recognised in the income statement by reference h) Corporate income tax and deferred tax to the stage of completion at the reporting date when revenues, the stage of completion, the costs incurred and the costs to complete the transaction can be estimated reliably and it is probable that the economic The expenses or incomes due to taxes on profit are related to the part of expenses or incomes for current benefits derived from the transaction will flow to the Group. taxes and the part corresponding to the expenses or incomes for deferred tax. j) Termination benefits The current tax is the amount that the Company pays as a result of tax payments on the corresponding profits produced in a financial year. The deductions and other tax advantages in the tax rate, excluding the Under current legislation, the Group companies are required to pay termination benefits to employees, under withholding of tax and payment on account, as well as losses compensated in tax from previous years and certain conditions. Termination benefits that can be reasonably quantified are recognised as an expense in effectively applied to the current tax year, result in a lesser amount of current tax. the year in which the decision to terminate the employment relationship is taken The accompanying financial statements at 31 December 2016 do not include any provision in this connection, since no situations of this Expenses or incomes due to deferred taxes correspond to the recognition and cancellation of assets and nature are expected to arise. liabilities due to deferred taxes. These include the provisional differences that are identified as those amounts payable and redeemable deriving from the differences between the amounts on books in assets k) Provisions and contingencies and liabilities and their tax value, as well as the negative taxable base pending compensation and the credits for tax deductions not applied in tax. Such amounts are registered applying to the provisional difference or The Directors of the Parent Company in the elaboration of the current annual accounts of the year ended credit that corresponds to the type of lien that should be recuperated or paid. on 31 December 2016 differentiate between: Liabilities due to deferred taxes are recognized for all the different tax bases, except for those deriving from a) Provisions: credit balances that cover current obligations arising from past events, whose cancellation the initial recognition of goodwill value or of other assets and liabilities in an operation which affects neither is likely to lead to the exit of resources, but which are undetermined with regards to the amounts and/ the tax results nor the accounting results and is not a combined trading. or time of cancellation, and On the other hand, the assets due to deferred taxes are only registered as they are considered possible b) Contingent liabilities: possible obligations emerged as consequences of past events, whose future when the Company considers that is possible to generate future taxable profits in order to pay taxes and materialisation is conditioned by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future events not not resulting from the initial recognition, except in a business combination, of other assets and liabilities in wholly within the Group’s control. a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit. The remaining deferred tax assets (tax losses and deductions pending) are only recognized if it is probable that the consolidated entities will The consolidated annual accounts of the year ended on 31 December 2016 include all the important have sufficient future taxable profits against which to utilize them. provisions with respect to which one considers the possibility of attending such an obligation is greater than otherwise. The contingent liabilities are not registered in the annual accounts at 31 December 2016, but Current tax and deferred tax are recognized against the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, rather are disclosed, unless the possibility of an outflow in settlement is considered to be remote. except when they are associated with transactions that are recognized in the consolidated equity, in which case the current tax and deferred tax is also recognized in the consolidated equity. When the current tax Provisions are valued at their present value of the best possible estimate of the amount required to cancel and deferred tax arise from the accounting of a business combination, the tax effect is recognized in the or transfer the obligation, taking into account the information available on the event and its consequences, accounting of the combination. and the adjustments are registered as they emerge on updating the said provisions as financial costs according to their accrual periods. At each closing date, the assets due to deferred taxes registered are considered, making the corresponding corrections to these if there is doubt whether such can be redeemed. Furthermore, at each closing date, The compensation to be received from a third party at the time of liquidating the obligation, as long as there the assets due to deferred taxes which are not registered in the balance sheet and are recognized possible are no doubts to that such refund will be perceived, is registered as an asset, except for those cases in as redeemable with future tax benefits. which there is a legal attachment for which part of the risk is outsourced, and in virtue of which the Company is not obliged to respond; in such case, the compensation will be taken into account in order to estimate the amount for which, if applicable, the corresponding provision appears. 22 23 NOTES l) Offsetting balances q) Adjusted EBITDA Only offset each other, and are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position on a net basis, In order to give more information on the profit or loss of the year, the Management of the Group has included debtor and creditor balances arising from transactions in which, contractually or by operation of a legal an intermediate margin in the accompanying consolidated financial statement integral result of the years regulation, contemplating offset and the intention to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle 2016 and 2015 titled “adjusted EBITDA” which includes all of the income and expenses of the year except the liability simultaneously. for: m) Activitites with environmental impact • Income or expense arising from corporate tax. Environmental activity is defined as any action intended to prevent, regulate or repair damage to the • Financial income and expenses. environment. • Fixed asset amortisation expenses and buy back renting costs. Investments in environmental activities, if any, are valued at acquisition cost and capitalized as cost of assets in the year in which they are incurred. • Income and expenses that are considered non-recurring because of their nature. Environmental protection and improvement expenses are charged to consolidated statement of profit or • Impairment and profit/loss on disposal of fixed assets. loss in the year in which they are incurred, regardless of when the resulting monetary or financial flow arises. r) Adjusted EBIT Provisions for probable or certain, litigation in progress and indemnities or obligations of an undetermined amount of an environmental nature, not covered by insurance policies, are constituted at the time when the liability or obligation that determines the indemnity or payment rises. In order to give more information on the profit or loss of the year, the Management of the Group has included an intermediate margin in the accompanying consolidated financial statement integral result of the years 2016 and 2015 titled “adjusted EBIT” which includes all of the income and expenses of the year except for: n) Transactions with related parties o Income or expense arising from corporate tax. The Group performs all the intercompany transactions at market values. Additionally, the transfer pricing is adequately supported so that the Directors of the Parent Company consider that there are no significant o Financial income and expenses. risks in this connection that might give rise to significant liabilities in the future. o Income and expenses that are considered non-recurring because of their nature (see note 11(f)). o) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement s) Conversion of business abroad The meanings of the following expressions in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement prepared using the indirect method are: The conversion into euros of business abroad whose functional currency is not that of a hyper-inflationary country has been carried out by applying the following criterion (IAS 21.39): • Cash flows: inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents, this includes investments that are short term, highly liquid insignificant risk of changes in value. o Assets and liabilities, including goodwill and adjustments to net assets arising from the acquisition of the businesses, including comparative balances, are converted at the closing exchange rate at each • Operating activities: typical activities of the Companies of the Group, as well as other activities that balance sheet date; could not be classified as investing or financing activities. o Revenues and expenses, including comparative balances, are converted at the exchange rates • Investing activities: the acquisition, sale or disposal of long-term assets and other investments not prevailing on the date of each transaction; and included in cash and cash equivalents. The Group, according to the IFRS 7, assess to disclose the cash flows attending to the appropriateness to their nature. Investing cash flows include cash flows o Exchange rate differences resulting from the application of the above criteria are recognised as relating to the acquisitions and disposals of vehicles under repurchase agreements independently translation differences in other comprehensive income; whether ownership, in accounting terms, has been transferred under the agreements (see note 3 (c)). This same criterion is applicable to the conversion of the financial statements of the companies accounted • Financing activities: activities which produce changes in the size and composition of equity and for using the equity method, recognising the translation differences corresponding to the Group's liabilities that are not part of operating activities. shareholding in other comprehensive income. p) Financial information by segments In the presentation of the consolidated statement of cash flows, the cash flows, including comparative balances, of foreign subsidiaries and joint ventures are translated to euros using the exchange rates An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may prevailing at the date they were incurred. earn revenues and incur in expenses, whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Group’s chief decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its Translation differences recorded in other comprehensive income are recognised in profit or loss as an performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. adjustment to profit or loss on the sale, following the criteria set forth in the sections relating to subsidiaries and associates. 24 25 NOTES 4. Business combinations and Goodwill The goodwill corresponds to the difference between the fair value of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities and the cost of the business combination at the date of acquisition of each identified cash-generating unit. In this sense, the consideration paid for the business combination includes amounts corresponding to know-how, benefit Cost of the business combination of the acquired synergies, expected growth of the business and workforce. These benefits are not recognised separately from the goodwill since they do not meet the criteria to be considered identifiable intangible assets. At 18 December 2014 the Parent Company took control of the Goldcar Group through several operations in a single act. Information on the acquisition process is detailed in the consolidated financial statements for financial year The Group has defined as cash-generating units the different companies acquired in the business combination. A 2014. breakdown of the acquired companies is detailed in the following section. Moreover, in the purchase agreement signed between Car Rentals Topco, S.L. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica The goodwill derived from the business combination explained in this note is not tax deductible. S.L., a contingent future consideration was established. This consideration is subject to the attainment of a specified minimum corporate EBITDA during the years 2014, 2015 and 2016. In this sense, the degree of compliance with the corporate EBITDA is independent each year as long as a series of contingent conditions are additionally met Impairment analysis which can only be verified at the moment of divestment of the buyer. Moreover, as it is indicated in Notes 3-1 and 3-d, the Group has performed the corresponding impairment test At the acquisition date, and at 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Directors of the Sole shareholder of the Parent according to IAS 36. Company estimated that the fair value of such contingent consideration will be EUR zero since its probability of occurrence cannot be estimated, nor valued reliably. The recoverable amount of the assets allocated to the CGUs has been calculated based on its value in use calculated as the present value of the future cash flows discounted at a discount rate considering the risk inherent in these flows. Goodwill The calculations of value in use and fair value use cash flow projections based for five-years based on the financial The balance for financial year 2016 under the Goodwill heading assigned to each of the cash-generating units is budgets approved by management. Cash flows estimated as of the year in which the CGU achieves a stable rate as follows: of growth are extrapolated using the estimated growth rates indicated below. Miles de Euros Perpetual growth Post-tax discount Sociedad 2016 Company rate rate Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 27,009 Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 1.5% 8.2% Goldhire Portugal Lda. 44,851 Goldhire Portugal Lda. 1.5% 9.4% Goldcar Spain S.L. 115,737 Goldcar Spain S.L. 1.5% 8.7% Goldcar France S.à.r.l. 1 Total 187,598 Management determined the budgeted gross margins based on past experience and forecast market performance. Perpetual growth rates are coherent with the forecasts included in industry reports. The discount rate uses posttax values and reflects specific risks related to the CGU. This item has had no movements during the financial year. Because the recoverable amount is considerably higher than the carrying amount of the net assets, specific The movement for the year 2015 under the heading “Goodwill”, which has been allocated to each cash-generating information from the impairment test sensitivity analysis is not included. unit has been the following: Thousands of Euros 2015 Balance at Balance at Company 12/31/2014 Additions Retirements 12/31/2015 Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 26,683 326 27,009 Goldhire Portugal Lda. 44,851 44,851 Goldcar Fleets Spain, S.L.U. 214 (214) Goldcar Spain S.L. 115,737 115,737 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. 1 1 Total 187,486 326 (214) 187,598 26 27 NOTES 5. Intangible assets Trademarks The movement in the accounts corresponding to intangible assets and their accumulated amortisation during the Under the caption described as “Trademarks”, the Group registers certain commercial trademarks acquired from year 2016 and 2015 is as follows: the company Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. amounting to EUR 18,829 thousand. Based on an analysis of all the relevant factors, Group Management considers that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which these trademarks are expected to generate net cash inflows for the Group and, therefore, the trademarks have been classified as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Accordingly, they are not amortised although their Miles de Euros classification as assets with indefinite useful lives is reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and it is consistent with Ejercicio 2016 the Group’s related business plans. Balance at Balance at 12/31/2015 Additions Retirements Transfers 12/31/2016 The intangible assets with indefinite useful lives were assigned jointly with goodwill and their impairment has been analysed jointly with that goodwill (see note 4). Cost: Trademarks 18,919 18,919 The Company has analysed the impairment of each intangible asset under development by calculating the Other intangible assets 4,130 2,909 172 (569) 6,642 recoverable amount thereof based on its fair value. Total cost 23,049 2,909 172 (569) 25,561 6. Property, plant and equipment Accumulated amortisation: Trademarks The movement of the property, plant and equipment accounts and their accumulated amortisation for the year 2016 Other intangible assets (359) (502) (4) (865) and 2015 is detailed below: Total amortisation (359) (502) (4) (865) Net value: Thousands of Euros Trademarks 18,919 18,919 2016 Other intangible assets 3,771 2,407 167 (569) 5,776 Balance at Balance at Total net book value 22,690 2,407 167 (569) 24,695 12/31/2015 Additions Disposals Transfers 12/31/2016 Cost: Land and buildings 370 (234) 136 Technical facilities and other property, plant and equipment 77,043 95,299 (38) (72,115) 100,189 Thousands of Euros Property, plant and equipment in the course of 2015 construction and advances 51 221 (19) 253 Balance at Balance at Total cost 77,464 95,520 (272) (72,134) 100,578 12/31/2014 Additions Retirements Transfers 12/31/2015 Accumulated amortisation: Cost: Land and buildings (6) (6) Trademarks 18,829 90 18,919 Technical facilities and other property, plant and Other intangible assets 1,246 2,981 (7) (90) 4,130 equipment (567) (19,358) (12) 18,852 (1,085) Total cost 20,075 2,981 (7) 23,049 Total amortisation (567) (19,364) (12) 18,852 (1,091) Depreciation Accumulated amortisation: Technical facilities and other property, plant and Trademarks equipment (403) (302) 40 (665) Other intangible assets (5) (358) 4 (359) Accumulated depreciation (403) (302) 40 (665) Total amortisation (5) (358) 4 (359) Total net book value 76,494 75,854 (244) (53,282) 98,822 Net value: Trademarks 18,829 90 18,919 Other intangible assets 1,241 2,623 (3) (90) 3,771 Total net book value 20,070 2,623 (3) 22,690 28 29 NOTES Thousands of Euros 7. Trade and other receivables and Financial investments 2015 Balance at Balance at 12/31/2014 Additions Disposals Transfers 12/31/2015 In connection with the Group’s main activity, which is the renting of vehicles, its sales are mainly paid in cash causing the average credit and collection periods to be virtually zero. For this reason, there is no significant impairment in the accounts receivables. Cost: Land and buildings 370 370 Technical facilities and other property, plant and Due to the Management's accounts receivable management policy and the Group’s type of business, there are no equipment 113,348 81,192 (117,497) 77,043 provisions for significant insolvencies in this respect nor has there been any movement of this type of provisions in Property, plant and equipment in the course of financial year 2016 or 2015. construction and advances 2,521 46 (2,516) 51 Total cost 116,239 81,238 (120,013) 77,464 Additionally, the Group’s accounts receivables registered under the heading “Trade and other receivables” of the consolidated financial statement mainly comprise amounts due from manufacturers and, to a lesser extent, vehicle Accumulated amortisation: dealerships, primarily for vehicle sales derived fundamentally from sales of vehicles subject to repurchase Technical facilities and other property, plant and agreements for which the transaction has taken place. equipment 341 (21,917) 21,009 (567) Total amortisation 341 (21,917) 21,009 (567) At 31 December 2016, the Group has derecognised an amount of EUR 19,168 thousand (EUR 16,978 thousand in 2015) in respect of factoring without recourse operations with a total fixed limit of EUR 20,000 thousand, and a Depreciation variable limit for individual operations depending on the balance receivable that gave rise to the corresponding Technical facilities and other property, plant and (593) 190 (403) credit (see note 14 (b)). equipment Accumulated depreciation (593) 190 (403) The heading “Financial investments” mainly comprises the amounts receivable from manufacturers, primarily for Total net book value 116,580 58,728 190 (99,004) 76,494 vehicle sales with repurchase agreements, and reflect the fair value of the repurchase price (see note 3-c) of vehicles that have not yet been bought back. The Group reflects its trade receivables at nominal value, provided that it does not differ significantly from its fair The main additions in 2016 and 2015 relate mainly to vehicles. value. In the normal course of its business, the Group directly acquires vehicles for rental and subsequent sale to third 8. Consolidated net equity and equity parties after the end of their estimated period of possession. The transfers correspond mainly to the vehicles that are sold and are therefore reclassified in the Inventories heading on the date on which the change of use is agreed. a) Equity The impairment loses of Technical facilities and other property, plant and equipment corresponds to valuation Share capital adjustments arising as a result of missing or stolen vehicles at year-end, based on the net book value of such vehicles. The share capital of the Parent company is represented by 21,500,000 shares of EUR 1 par value each, with a share premium of EUR 193,500 thousand, which have been created through the incorporation of the At 31 December 2016 fully depreciated property, plant and equipment total EUR 533 thousand (EUR 577 thousand Parent company and two share capital increases of 17,197,000 and 4,300,000 shares each, executed in 2015) and have been recognised under technical installations and other items of property, plant and equipment. through a public deed on 18 December 2014. All of the shares have been fully subscribed and paid as of 31 December 2014. At 31 December 2016 and 2015, there are no firm commitments to sell and purchase assets. The shares of the companies that comprise the Group are not listed on any official organised market. At 31 December 2016, certain transportation elements have been pledged to secure the proceedings described in Note 14.c which have net book value of EUR 36 thousand (EUR 703 thousand in 2015). At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the shareholders of the Parent Company who are legal persons are International Car Rentals III S.à.r.l. and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. owning 80% and 20% of the shares The policy of the Group is to take out insurance policies to cover the potential risks to which its fixed assets are respectively. subject. At 31 December 2016, the mentioned policies nearly cover the net book value of said elements. Legal reserve Under the Consolidated Spanish Companies Law, 10% of net profit for each year must be transferred to the legal reserve until the balance of this reserve reaches at least 20% of the share capital. Such reserve can be used to increase capital provided that the remaining reserve balance does not fall below 10% of the increased share capital amount. Otherwise, until the legal reserve exceeds 20% of share capital, it can only be used to offset losses, provided that sufficient other reserves are not available for that purpose. At the end of the year 2016, the Parent Company’s legal reserve had not been legally constituted. 30 31 NOTES Capitalisation reserve Since there is no dilutive effect on the losses per share, the basic losses and the diluted losses per share total the same amount. Appropriations shall be made to the capitalisation reserve in accordance with articles 25 and 62 of the Spanish Corporate Income Tax Law, which stipulates that this reserve must be appropriated in the amount of the reduction in the income tax base for the year to which the tax group is entitled. The right to a reduction 9. Financial debt and Derivatives in the income tax base of the tax group amounts to 10% of the increase in the capital and reserves of the tax group, as defined in this article, and in no case may exceed 10% of the income tax base of the tax group Long term financial liabilities for the tax period prior to the reduction and the integration referred to in section 12 of article 11 of the Law and the offsetting of tax losses. However, in the event that the tax group has insufficient taxable income to The balance of the accounts registered under the heading “Financial debt” and “Derivatives” at the end of the year apply the reduction, the amounts pending can be applied in the tax periods ending during the two successive 2016 and 2015 are the following: years following the close of the tax period in which the right to the reduction was generated, together with the reduction that could apply in that year, subject to the aforementioned limit. The reserve is nonThousands of Euros distributable and is subject to the tax group maintaining the increase in capital and reserves during a period 2015 of five years from the end of the tax period in which the reduction was generated, except in the event that Long-Term Short-Term Total the Company incurs accounting losses. Senior Facility 301,274 5,585 306,859 Derivative financial instruments 183 183 Consolidated reserves Other debt with financial institutions 22 22 Total 301,457 5,607 307,064 Details by company of this heading at 31 December 2016 and 2015 are as follows: Thousands of Thousands of Euros Euros 2016 2015 Thousands of Euros Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. (92) 2015 Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U. 13,387 (897) Long-Term Short-Term Total Goldcar Spain S.L. 2,005 (476) Senior Facility 303,332 4,385 307,717 Pulsar Rent a Car S.L.U. Derivative financial instruments 277 277 (18) Other debt with financial institutions 72 72 Goldcar Hellas S.à.r.l. (1,366) Total 303,609 4,457 308,066 Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. (713) (226) Goldcar Italy S.r.L. (649) (274) Goldshire Portugal Lda. 8,691 8 Almost of all the financial debt has a floating interest rate. Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. (249) 29 Goldcar Fleetco S.A. (7) The detail of the due dates of the debt that is registered under the heading “Financial debt” of the non-current Goldcar Master S.L. liabilities is as follows: 74 8 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. (653) Thousands of Euros Total 20,410 (1,828) 2016 2015 Senior Facility Senior Facility 2017 4,878 Basic earnings/(loss) per share 2018 7,087 7,228 2019 31,152 30,992 The basic earnings/losses per share in relation to continuing operations recognised for 2016 and 2015 are presented below, expressed in Euros per share: 2020 263,035 260,234 Total 301,274 303,332 2016 2015 Total loss for the year (thousands of Euros) 24,512 22,169 eighted average of shares outstanding (thousands) 21,500 21,500 Basic earnings/(loss) per share 1.1401 1.0311 32 33 NOTES Characteristics of the Group's financial debt 10. Public Administrations and tax position Within the process of taking control of the Group carried out on 18 December 2014 (see Note 1 for a full description), Reconciliation of accounting profit/loss and tax base the company Car Rentals Subsidiary, S.A.U. entered, as the debtor, along with Car Rentals Parentco, S.L.U., as the Parent Company, into a syndicated global financing agreement with several financial institutions. Both The income tax is calculated on the basis of accounting profit or loss determined by application of generally companies are Group companies. The financing totals an amount of EUR 450,000 thousand and it was subdivided accepted accounting principles which does not have to necessarily coincide with the taxable profit or the tax base. in two parts: The reconciliation between the accounting result and the taxable income of the theoretical Corporate Income Tax Senior Facility: the loan has a total nominal value of EUR 325,000 thousand. The amortised cost at 31 corresponding to 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, is as follows: December 2016 of the mentioned loan amounts to EUR 306,859 thousand (EUR 307,717 thousand in 2015) and its aim is to finance the share purchase of the foreign companies comprising the Group (Goldhire Portugal Lda. and Goldcar Italy S.r.L.), the purchase of certain trademarks, to cancel the previously existing debt and to increase the operational flexibility of the Group. The senior facility was issued in two tranches and their most significant traits are the following: Thousands of euros 2016 • “Tranche A” was granted for a total amount of EUR 50,000 thousand. The Group will annually amortise Additions Reductions Total the accumulated drawn amounts through annual repayments until the due date, 18 December 2019. Accounting profit/loss before tax 28,534 Permanent differences 1,203 (2,213) (1,010) • “Tranche B” was issued for a total amount of EUR 275,000 thousand. The Group will amortise this Temporary differences (172) (172) amount through one sole payment to be made at the date of maturity which is 18 June 2020. Capitalization Reserve (2,064) (2,064) The financing through Tranche A, as well as the financing through Tranche B bear a variable interest Tax loss carryforwards from previous rate at Euribor-indexed (adjusted) plus a margin. The margin is computed on the basis of the leverage financial years (23) (23) ratio of the Group which can range from 3.25% up to 3.75% for Tranche A and from 5% up to 5.50% for Tax base 1,203 (4,472) 25,265 Tranche B. A revolving credit facility with an initial limit of EUR 125,000 thousand to finance the working capital of the Group in order to fuel its growth. This facility matures in 18 December 2019 and accrues interest on floating market rates based on Euribor plus a margin that is conditioned to certain financial figures of the Group Thousands of euros measured at the date of disposal. At 31 December 2016 and 2015, no amount has been drawn from this 2015 facility. During financial year 2015, there were two extensions of the credit facility limit amounting to 25,000 Additions Reductions Total thousand euros and 12,000 thousand euros. Furthermore, in financial year 2016, there was an extension of 13,000 thousand euros, raising the limit at the close to 175,000 thousand euros. In addition, at the beginning Accounting profit/loss before tax 30,817 of 2017, the Group has extended this credit facility by an additional 75,000 thousand euros. Permanent differences 3,071 (5,071) (2,000) Temporary differences 5,563 (6,230) (667) The effective interest rate of the senior facility for the year 2016 has been 7.33% (7.83% in 2015) and it has resulted Tax base 8,634 (11,301) 28,150 in financial expenses amounting to EUR 24,304 thousand in the year 2016 (EUR 24,573 thousand in 2015), which are registered under the heading “Financial costs” of the consolidated statement of profit or loss (See Note 11.e). Moreover and in accordance with said financing agreement, the Group has provided several guarantees to the creditor financial institutions and it is required to comply with several economic and equity ratios in relation to the consolidated financial statements as it is detailed in Note 14. Derivative Financial Instruments At 18 March 2015, the Group, through its subsidiary Car Rentals Subsidiary, S.A.U., has entered into derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to the interest rates of the syndicated financing described above. These financial instruments have been formalised through the following operations: An interest rate SWAP maturing on 31 December 2017 with a notional amount of EUR 50 million in which the Group pays a fixed monthly rate of 0.04% and charges a variable interest rate based on Euribor 1 M. This instrument would hedge tranche A of the syndicated financing. Two CAP agreements with a fixed interest rate (strike) of 1.50%. The two agreements have the same conditions maturing both on 18 December 2007 and having each notional amounts of EUR 137.5 million. The benchmark interest rate is Euribor 6 M. This instrument would hedge tranche B of the syndicated financing. 34 35 NOTES Reconciliation of the consolidated accounting profit or loss before tax to the tax income or Deferred tax assets and liabilities expense Details of the Deferred tax assets at the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2016 and The reconciliation of the accounting profit or loss before tax to the tax result corresponding to the tax period in 2015 are as follows: financial year 2016 and 2015 is as follows: Thousands of Euros Thousands of Euros 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 At 31/12/2016 At 31/12/2015 Limit on deductibility of amortisation/depreciation 415 466 Profit or loss Profit or loss Tax loss carryforwards 305 349 Accounting profit/loss before tax 28,534 30,817 Deductions 455 Tax charge 7,387 8,705 Others 15 130 Deductions (3,077) (220) Total 1,190 945 Non-deductible expenses 305 870 Non-taxable income (514) (795) Capitalisation reserve (516) (610) Regarding the limit on the deductibility of amortisation/depreciation (applicable in 2013 and 2014) was partially Prior year adjustments (46) 46 recovered in 2015 as it related to the depreciation of the fleet of vehicles expected to be withdrawn from service between 2015 and 2017. Tax loss carryforwards/ Unrecognised tax credits 483 652 Total tax expense/(income) recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss 4,022 8,648 In relation to the negative tax bases and given that they were generated independently by a Spanish company under the individual income tax regime, the recoverability of the negative tax bases will depend on the tax bases generated by that company for the periods beginning after 1 January 2015. Details of the tax expense/(tax income) in the consolidated statement of profit or loss are as follows: Furthermore, the detail of the heading “Deferred tax liabilities” registered in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2016 and 2015 is the following: Thousands of Euros At 31/12/2016 At 31/12/2015 Thousands of Euros Current tax 31/12/2016 31/12/2015 For the period 7,164 8,670 Other 219 Prior year adjustments 6 Total 219 Previously unrecognised tax deductions (2,629) (256) Tax loss carryforwards/ Unrecognised tax credits (63) Total 4,478 8,414 At end of the year 2016, there are no pending deductions nor temporary differences related to investments in Deferred tax depending companies and related parties or to interests in joint ventures for which deferred tax liabilities have not Property, plant and equipment (169) 188 been recognised. Tax deductions not recognised in previous The negative tax bases registered in in the accompanying consolidated statement of financial position have no financial years (455) temporary limit. Prior year adjustments 168 46 Total (456) 234 The current tax rates applicable to the Spanish companies in the group for the financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015 and following are set at 28% and 25%, respectively. From continuing operations 4,022 8,648 In relation to the deduction for reinvestment of extraordinary profits established in article 42 of the Royal Legislative Decree 4/2004, of 5 March, for which the Revised Text of the Corporate Tax Law is approved by, the following In financial year 2016, the company generated a deduction in order to avoid double taxation amounting to 2,732 information is provided. thousand euros, of which 2,277 thousand euros have been applied in the settlement of the financial year, with the remaining 455 thousand euros pending application for future financial years. The balance of the deduction pending Deduction Reinvestment application is expected to be fully utilised in financial year 2017. Period Gains Applied Period 2010 3,265 355 2009-2013 Withholdings and payments on account made during 2016 amounted to Euros 5,168 thousand (Euros 9,710 2011 1,747 210 2010-2014 thousand in 2015). 2012 1,238 149 2011-2014 2013 964 116 2012-2014 36 37 NOTES The Group has a commitment to maintain the assets and liabilities for which it received a deduction for reinvestment b) Personnel for five years, or three years in the case of moveable property, unless the amount obtained or the carrying amount, if lower, is to be reinvested. The average number of Group employees during the year 2016 and 2015, detailed by categories, is the following: Years open to inspection Under current tax regulation, taxes cannot be deemed definitive until they have been inspected by the tax authorities or the corresponding prescription period of four years has passed. As a consequence of the possible Number of Employees different interpretations of the current tax regulation, among other reasons, additional liabilities could arise as a Professional Categories 2016 2015 result of an inspection. In any case, the Directors of the Parent Company believe that in the case that the mentioned Senior management 5 5 liabilities arise they would not significantly affect the annual accounts. Other management personnel 21 20 Technicians, professionals and support personnel 109 87 At 31 December 2016, the Parent Company has the period 2014 open to inspection since it has been incorporated Administrative staff 78 59 in that period and at 31 December 2015 and 2016. The subsidiaries have all of the main applicable taxes open to Sales and similar personnel 446 347 inspection by the tax authorities since January 2013, except for the income tax which is open to inspection since Other qualified personnel 83 104 the year 2012. Subsidiaries with tax residence in countries other than Spain, are open to inspection their taxes Unskilled workers 157 168 based on current tax laws in each country The Directors of the Parent Company believe that, in the event that an inspection takes place, no additional relevant liabilities will arise. Total 899 790 Tax consolidation Additionally, the distribution by gender of Group personnel at the end of the year 2016 and 2015, detailed The Spanish companies comprising the consolidated Group will be taxed from January 2015 onwards under the by categories, is as follows: consolidated tax regime established in Chapter VI of the Title VII of the Spanish Corporation Law (27/2014) of the Income Tax. 2016 2015 Professional Categories Male Female Male Female Moreover, the Spanish companies comprising the consolidated Group have applied the special regime for groups Directors 10 8 of entities in relation to the value added tax established in Chapter IX of Title IX of the Value Added Tax Law Senior management (not directors) 2 2 (37/1992) to the operations carried out from 1 January 2015 onwards. Other management personnel 21 1 19 3 Technicians, professionals and support personnel 67 29 50 38 Administrative staff 35 42 34 29 11. Income and expenses Sales and similar personnel 230 225 157 176 Other qualified personnel 63 36 93 38 a) Revenue Unskilled workers 188 42 99 17 Total 616 375 462 301 Revenues mainly derive from the commercialization of self-drive vehicle hire. In this context, the Group does not have clients that represent more than 10% of the total revenue. The average number of Group employees with a disability greater than or equal to 33% during the year Furthermore, in the normal course of its business, the Group acquires vehicles to be used for rental and 2016 is 13 (6 in 2015). subsequent sale to third parties after the end of their estimated period of possession. When these vehicles are sold, they are reclassified to Inventories on the date the change of use is agreed upon and, consequently, the income derived from the sale is recorded as part of “Revenue . c) Leases The breakdown of the revenue of the Group by activity segments is detailed in Note 13, while the distribution Operating leases lessor by geographic markets is detailed in section h) of this note 11. At 31 December 2016 and 2015 there are no significant non-cancelable operating leases to which the Group companies are considered lessors. 38 39 NOTES Operating leases lessee d) Other operating expenses Operating leases in which the Group acts as a lessee relate to the leases of offices, buildings and land External services located in different settings of Spain and the European community. The Group pays a fixed monthly fee which is updated by indexes that correct the effect of inflation. Moreover, the Parent Company is present in The fees for financial audit and other professional services provided by the auditors of the consolidated numerous Spanish airports by means of the entity A.E.N.A. (Aeropuertos Españoles y Navegación Aérea) annual accounts of the Group, KPMG Auditores S.L., as well as the fees invoiced by the auditors of the to which it pays fixed and variable fees. In this sense, the variables fees are calculated on the basis of annual accounts of the companies included in the consolidation perimeter and of the entities that are invoicing, facility use, and airport area and they cannot be lower than 9.25% of the turnover generated in considered related by means of control, common ownership or management, have been the following in the corresponding airports. During the current financial year, the Spanish airport concessions with expiry in 2016 and 2015: October 2016 were put up for auction. The Group has been awarded several of these concessions, the new conditions of which are the payment of a fixed part plus an 8% variable fee, without having an assured minimum. In addition to acting as a lessee as explained above, the Group is also a lessee of rental vehicles without a Thousands of Euros driver. 2016 2015 Main Other Main Other Moreover, the Group classifies as an operating lease certain vehicles that are destined to car rental and Description Auditor Auditors Auditor Auditors that have been acquired from manufacturers or dealerships. These vehicles are subject to repurchase Audit services 98 13 97 14 agreements (See Note 3-c). Other assurance services 6 Total 104 13 97 14 The expenses of the period resulting from operating leases ascend to EUR 89,917 thousand (EUR 73,928 thousand in 2015) and their detail is disclosed below: e) Income and expenses resulting from financial instruments Thousands of Euros 2016 2015 The financial expenses correspond mainly to the financing described in Note 9 which refers to the “Senior Buy back renting costs 51,697 42,777 Facility”. Renting costs 14,140 11,404 Airport royalties 18,568 15,164 f) Other non-recurring income and expenses Other leases 5,512 4,583 The Group recognises under this heading, in essence, those non-recurring expenses resulting from the Total 89,917 73,928 hiring of professional services, other expenses related to other fixed assets, other vehicle expenses, allowance and attendance expenses relating to the Board of Directors, extra payments to certain employees, severance payments and sundry others. No significant income was included. Buy back renting costs with the amortisation expenses detailed in Notes 5 and 6 are classified under the heading “Fixed asset amortisation and buy back renting costs” of the accompanying consolidated statement of profit or loss. Future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases are detailed below, excluding future increases due to inflation: Thousands of Euros 2016 2015 Less than one year 19,957 7,028 One to five years 38,459 4,246 More than five years 7,219 503 Total 65,635 11,777 40 41 NOTES g) Subsidiary contribution to the consolidated profit The contribution made by each of the companies comprising the Group to the consolidated results for the i) Foreign currency year 2016 and 2015 is the following: The breakdown of the balances and transactions in foreign currency at the close of financial year 2016 and Thousands of Euros financial year 2015, respectively, is as follows: 2016 2015 Result Result attributable to attributable to the Parent the Parent Thousands of Euros Company Company Accounts Accounts Total Total Car Rentals Topco S.L.U. (504) (68) receivable payable Revenues Expenses Car Rentals Parentco S.A.U. (20) (91) Croatian kuna (HRK) 302 (405) 1,452 (1,886) Car Rentals Subsidiary S.A.U.(*) 2,772 (846) Goldcar Spain S.L. 17,670 17,396 Car Rentals Italy S.r.L. 111 (487) Goldcar Italy S.r.L. 897 (375) Goldcar Fleetco Italy S.R.L. 23 12. Related parties balances and transactions Goldhire Portugal Lda. 5,588 8,683 Goldcar Fleets Spain S.L.U. (22) (65) Goldcar Fleetco S.A. (350) (7) a) Remuneration of the Group’s Directors and senior management Goldcar Master S.L. 381 66 Goldcar France S.à.r.l. (979) (653) The aggregate annual remuneration paid to the Senior Management of the Parent Company in wages and Goldhire Fleetco Portugal Lda. (31) salaries totalled an amount to EUR 445 thousand (EUR 581 thousand in 2015). The amount for financial year 2016 includes the remuneration of a member of senior management who ceased his activity during Goldcar Hellas S.A. (529) (1,366) the year.The Parent Company’s senior management does not receive any other remuneration other than Goldcar Rental, d.o.o. (435) the wages and salaries mentioned above. Pulsar Rent a Car S.L.U. (60) (18) Total 24,512 22,169 The Directors of the Parent Company, (other than those referred to in the preceding paragrafh, for the case in which the Group’s Senior Management are part of the Board of Directors), have received attendance fees, diets and remuneration amounting to EUR 105 thousand during the year ended 31 December 2016 h) Operations by geographical market (EUR 90 thousand in 2015). A breakdown of the revenue and non-current assets by geographical market at 31 December 2016 and Additionally, a director has granted a loan to the Company amounting to 500 thousand euros. This loan 2015 is detailed below: accrues a variable interest rate and has repayment terms that are conditional on the achievement of certain milestones, only verifiable in the case and moment of divestment by the majority shareholder of the Parent Company. As of 31 December 2016, the Directors of the Parent Company have estimated that the fair value of the accrued interest is zero euros since the probability of this occurrence cannot be estimated nor can it be reliably valued. Thousands of Euros 2016 2015 The Board of Directors consists of 10 men. NonNoncurrent current Revenue assets (*) Revenue assets (*) The Parent Company has not assumed any commitments with its Directors or the Group’s senior management regarding pensions, life insurance, advance payments, loans or any of the sort. The amount National (Spain) 190,482 96,959 194,931 58,726 of the civil liability insurance policy accrued in the financial year by the Group amounts to 16 thousand euros. Rest of the European Union 117,256 29,782 93,966 42,424 Other countries 1,644 11 b) Information regarding conflict of interest situations with the Directors Total 309,382 126,741 288,908 101,150 (*) Excluding goodwill During the year 2016 and 2015 the Directors of the Parent Company have not communicated to the Company’s shareholder any situation regarding themselves or their related parties in which there could be an indirect or direct conflict of interest with the Parent Company. In this sense, the term “related parties” refers to the one defined under Spanish Corporation Law, except for the Director Juan Alcaraz Alcaraz, which ones have been disclosed in note c) below. 42 43 NOTES c) Balances and transactions with other related parties In the same way, guarantees are granted on the bank accounts and trade receivables of Goldcar Spain S.L. and Goldhire Portugal Lda. The trade receivables comprise receivables with clients, At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the main balances and transactions of the Group related to transactions manufacturers of vehicles subject to repurchase agreements, and other Group companies. with Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. (one of the shareholders of the Goldcar Group, see Note 8). Additionally, Goldcar Spain S.L. has entered into a senior mortgage commitment on its owned vehicles. Moreover, the main operations with related parties were: Moreover, Goldcar Spain has entered the financing as a debtor and guarantor. Goldcar Fleetco, S.A. has also entered the financing as a guarantor and guarantees have been issued over its shares and Operating expenses resulting from the lease of buildings for an amount of EUR 945 thousand with bank accounts. related companies to Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L. (EUR 965 thousand in 2015) and non-significant advisory services expenses by these entities. According to the financing agreement and provided that there are drawn amounts in any of the syndicated loans or the revolving policy, a number of mandatory conditions are established. Such Operating expenses resulting from vehicles repair for non-significant amounts. conditions are measured on the basis of certain ratios and financial levels to be estimated on the consolidated financial information of the Goldcar Group. These ratios are the total banking ratio (total Consulting Contract with Laurence Marlor amounting to 6 thousand euros during financial year 2016. consolidated net debt/ consolidated EBITDA) and the interest coverage ratio (consolidated EBITDA/ total net payment of interests). At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the Group believes that all of the Loan amounting to 500 thousand euros granted by Laurence Marlor. conditions included in the agreements are met. (*) EBITDA, as defined in global funding agreement. 13. Segment information IFRS 8 requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable segments. Reportable b) Information on the management of capital and the nature and level of financial segments are operating segments or aggregations of operating segments that meet specified criteria. An operating risks segment is defined as a component of an entity: The Group’s financial risk management is centralised in its Financial Management, which has established that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenue and incur in expenses (including revenue the required mechanisms to control exposure to the fluctuations in interest and exchange rates, as well as and expenses relating to transactions with other components of the same entity), credit and liquidity risk. The detail of the capital management policy and the main risks affecting the Group are as follows: whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the entity’s chief operating decision maker to decide about the resources that should be allocated to the segment and assess their performance; and i. Capital management policy for which discrete financial information is available. The aim of the Group's capital management is to achieve a financial structure that optimises the cost of capital and maximises shortand medium-term liquidity while maintaining a solid financial position. The Group only operates in the car rental segment. In this sense, the information that serves as a base to the This policy makes it possible to reconcile creating value for the Shareholders with access to financial maximum authority in the decision making process regarding Group operations is structured according to the markets at a competitive cost, which is in line with the overall Group strategy of increasing sales different offices in which each of the Subsidiaries operates. through the expansion of its operations in Spain and abroad. The Group’s financial structure rests fundamentally on the syndicated financing described in Note 9 14. Other information which has an available balance at 31 December 2016 of EUR 175,000 thousand (EUR 162,000 thousand available in 2015) that will enable the Group, along with other factors, to fuel its growth. In a) Guarantees and obligations derived from the financing agreement addition, at the beginning of 2017, the Group has extended this credit facility by an additional 75,000 thousand euros. The main guarantees granted by the Group to the creditor financial institutions upon the issuing of the syndicated financing described in Note 9 are disclosed below: As part of its capital management policy the Group regularly monitors, inter alia, the following consolidated aggregates: A pledge on the shares of the depending companies Goldcar Spain S.L. and Goldhire Portugal Lda. − Net financial debt: represents the sum of all the debt, both long and short term, less the amounts Additionally, every material Group company will be considered a guarantor of the obtained financing. included in cash balances. According to the financing agreement, a Group company will be considered material if its assets or individual EBITDA (*) amount to at least 5% of those of the Group’s. In this sense, at the closing of − Net financial debt/EBITDA: represents the sum of dividing net financial debt by EBITDA. each financial year, the Group shall evaluate if the material restricted Subsidiaries comply with the Coverage Test (Guarantor Coverage Test) which establishes that the total of assets and EBITDA(*) In this context, the syndicated financing obtained in the year 2014 includes conditions related to the of the guarantors are higher than 80% of those of the Group. At 31 December 2016 and 2015, the compliance with certain economic and equity ratios that are associated with the consolidated annual Group considers that the granted guarantees are enough to comply with what is established in the accounts of the Group. agreement reached with its financial creditors. 44 45 NOTES ii. Financial risk management policy Sensitivity analysis Credit risk The Group's Finance Department considers interest rates to be the main market risk. Therefore, the aforementioned hedges were entered into. The interest rate sensitivity analysis shows that an increase Credit risk is the risk that a debtor may become insolvent in relation to applicable contractual of 100 basis points in the Euribor in 2016 would increase finance costs by approximately Euros 1,100 obligations, giving rise to a loss for the Group. In general the Group’s policy to mitigate such risk thousand (in 2015 finance costs would rise by approximately Euros 479 thousand), but the hedges consists in collecting in cash the transactions related to its ordinary car rental activity from its final contracted in 2015 would considerably minimise this impact. However, a fall in the Euribor in 2016 and customers. However, the Group maintains trade receivables with wholesalers and travel agencies. 2015 would have a notable impact on the consolidated statement of profit or loss as the Euribor would be at near-zero levels. In 2016 and 2015, in general, the main receivables are from solvent vehicle manufacturers, which have historically settled payables by their due dates. Cash and cash equivalents are deposited in c) Legal proceedings, claims in progress and/or contingencies financial institutions with high credit ratings. As a normal part of its activity the Group receives various administrative and labour claims that are evaluated Liquidity risk on an annual basis by the Group’s legal department together with its external advisors to determine, where appropriate, the equity impact based on an estimate of probability of occurrence on the basis of which the appropriate provisions are recorded. This risk refers to both, the risk in which the Group might find difficulties in selling a financial instrument quickly enough without incurring in significant additional costs, as well as the risk resulting from not having sufficient liquidity at the moment in which the payment obligations of the Group need to be met. Furthermore, throughout each financial year the Group enters into commercial agreements with its main clients consisting of discounts, commissions or the like, having recorded in these annual accounts the best estimate that such agreements may have in respect of them. The policy of the Group is to hold cash through leading financial institutions in order to be able to meet its future obligations. It also monitors the structure of its balance sheet by maturity on an ongoing basis in order to detect as soon as possible any inappropriate shortand medium-term liquidity structures Other information using a strategy aimed at ensuring stable sources of financing and the arrangement of credit facilities for amounts which are sufficient to cover the projected needs. In 2012 the Spanish National Competition Authorities (now replaced by the Spanish National Markets and Competition Commission – CNMC) undertook administrative proceedings on two counts. The first case was The Group arranged non-recourse factoring facilities amounted to Euros 39.500 thousand (35,000 raised jointly against subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L., and its parent company in that period, Alcor Sociedad thousand in 2015) that can be applied to certain trade receivables with a maximum limit of Euros Estratégica, S.L., as well as AENA and several other vehicle rental sector companies. The second jointly 20,000 thousand according to the guarantees and obligations derived in the syndicated financing concerned the subsidiary Goldcar Spain, S.L and Alcor Sociedad Estratégica, S.L, in addition to other agreement (see note 14 (a)). vehicle rental sector companies and associations. Market risk The first case stemmed from possible anti-competitive conduct, namely the sharing of sensitive business information on self-drive car hire companies that rent AENA commercial premises. The Spanish National Competition Authorities (CNC) issued a ruling on this procedure on 2 January 2014, although it imposed no Market risk is defined as the risk of variation in the fair value or the future cash flows of a financial fine. The Directors and legal independent advisers of the Group believe it is not probable for significant instrument due to changes in interest rates, exchange rates or other price risks. economic responsibilities to derive for the Group. Interest rate risk On the second was resolution of 30 July 2013, whereby the Spanish National Competition Authorities imposed a fine of 15,456 thousand euros. Furthermore, in relation to the appeal filed by the subsidiary Interest rate fluctuations change the fair value of assets and liabilities that bear interest at a fixed company, Goldcar Spain, SL, a judgement was delivered on 16 March 2016. The judgement partially rate and the future cash flows from assets and liabilities tied to a floating interest rate. The aim considers the appeal, annuls the resolution in the particular relating to the determination of the amount of of interest rate risk management is to achieve a balanced debt structure that makes it possible the fine and orders that the proceedings be referred to the Spanish National Competition Authorities so that to minimise the cost of the debt over several years with reduced volatility in the consolidated it dictates another in which to set the amount in accordance with the legal criteria of duly substantiated statement of profit or loss. graduation. Against the judgement, the subsidiary company Goldcar Spain, S.L. has filed a cassation appeal before the Supreme Court, requesting the complete annulment of the Resolution. At the date of the The indebtedness of the Group is tied to Euribor. However, as it is disclosed in Note 9, at 18 preparation of these consolidated annual accounts, the proceedings are pending indication for vote and March 2015, the Group has entered into derivative financial instruments to cover the future judgement, and therefore no judgement has been served. fluctuations of the syndicated financing interest rate, hence, it has been able to minimise its exposure to the variations in interest rates. The SWAP and the two CAP with low strikes (1.5%) Pursuant to the agreements adopted in the context of the Group's takeover of this subsidiary described in will allow the Group to minimise the possible impact. Note 4, which included the commitment by the seller to keep the Group harmless in the event that it had to face the claim described above and considering the guarantees provided in this commitment, the subsidiary Exchange rate risk: company Goldcar Spain, S.L. does not consider that there is any liability related to this aspect. The Group virtually carries out its operations in euros, which is the local currency of all of the In relation to the situation explained above, real guarantees have been formed over certain vehicles (see companies comprising the Goldcar Group. Consequently, the exchange rate risk is considered Note 6). to be a residual risk. 46 47 DIRECTORS’ REPORT During financial year 2016, the Italian Competition and Market Authority started inspections of several entities in the vehicle rental sector, including the Goldcar Group. On 20 November 2016, the Italian Car Rentals Topco S.L. and Subsidiaries Competition Authority imposed a penalty of 2 million euros on the Goldcar Group for alleged infringements Consolidated directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2016 related to the consumer code. Subsequent to the close of financial year 2016, in accordance with Italian law and as a preliminary procedure necessary in order to appeal against the sanctioning sentence, the Group has paid the mentioned amount in financial year 2017. The appeal was filed on 17 February 2017 before Current position and outlook for the Group The Italian Administrative Court of the Region of Lazio. The Directors of the Parent Company consider the likelihood that the appeal will not be successful as remote, based, among other things, on the assessments With more than 30 years of experience, Goldcar is an international group dedicated to the provision of services made by its legal advisors, who consider that there are sufficient arguments, from the point of view of both related to the car rental without a driver being the leader in the Spanish and Portuguese holiday market, and procedure and substance, to obtain the partial or total annulment of the decision of the Italian Competition growing significantly in the other countries where it operates with own offices, such as Italy, France, Greece and Authority. The Directors of the Parent Company have therefore considered any contingencies that could Croatia, which has allowed it to position itself as a reference point in the sector of car rental in the European holiday arise were the appeal filed by the Parent Company not successful to be remote and therefore no provision market. has been recorded in this regard in these consolidated annual accounts. Financial year 2016 has been characterised by the continuity of economic growth and the consolidation of Goldcar Other aspects as an international and expanding company. In this sense, revenues from services (excluding fuel revenues) increased by 13,6% compared to the year 2015, which has had a positive impact on the adjusted EBITDA. At 31 December the Group is supported by financial institutions to cover the guarantees resulting from the Additionally, the Group has not received negative signals in demand caused by the possible effects of the Brexit , ordinary course of business for a total amount of EUR 19,764 thousand (EUR 10,658 thousand in 2015). which could lead to a new relationship between the United Kingdom and Europe in the future. At 31 December 2016 and 2015, there are no significant contingent assets. During 2016, the Group made significant investments in technology, structure and direct channel enhancement in order to face the expected growth of the coming years. d) Average period of payments to suppliers. Another equally important aspect, which is linked to sustainable growth, is the enhancement that the Group is carrying out with aspects related to Corporate Governance, such as the implementation of a GRC (Government, The Information on Late Payments to Suppliers is as follows: Risks and Compliance) system, and the corporate social responsibility report that will be published in 2017 for the third consecutive year. Days 2016 2015 The Group has a financial structure, with reduced levels of leverage and a liquidity situation that allows to face the Average period of payments to suppliers 31.51 27.59 business plan. Ratio of paid transactions 31.14 27.22 Ratio of outstanding operations 34.25 34.03 Subsequent events Thousand of euros During the first months of 2017, the Group continued to develop its expansion plan, improving the quality of Total payments made 74,576 95,335 customer service according to its strategic plan. In this sense, there have been no significant events since the end Total pending payments 9,903 5,454 of the year that may affect these annual accounts as of December 31, 2016. Foreseeable evolution of the Group e) Subsequent events The situation of the tourism sector in southern Europe and the Group's outlook make it likely that during 2017 No significant events have occurred since the reporting date that could affect the consolidated annual sustainable growth will occur in line with the budget prepared by the Group's Management. accounts at 31 December 2016. In this sense, the current Group Management has taken significant steps to modernize and consolidate the existing business model, having established a solid structure, both in financial resources and in human, technological and commercial resources, suggesting that the evolution of the Group will be as established in its strategic plan. Acquisition of own shares During the year ended on 31 December 2016, the Company did not carry out any operations regarding its own shares. 48 49 DIRECTORS’ REPORT Environment In general, the Group maintains its treasury in highly rated financial institutions. In addition, the Group enters a significant part of its sales through secure means of payment and operates in a sector with a very Due to the activity of the Group, it does not have any responsibilities, expenses, assets, provisions nor fragmented volume of customers, which significantly reduces credit risk. Also, a relevant part of the accounts contingencies with an environmental nature that could be considered significant in relation to its equity, financial receivable are with manufacturers of vehicles and brokers of recognized solvency, who have historically situation or results. attended to the payment within the established periods. However, and from a social responsibility perspective, the Group is aware of the effects that the car rental business b) Liquidity risk: has on the environment and in particular on gas emissions. For this reason, the Group has several initiatives to mitigate the environmental impact of the business, it studies trends in the sector and coordinates with the main In order to ensure liquidity and to meet all the payment commitments arising from its activity, the Company players. One of the first measures taken by the Group has been to include electric vehicles in its fleet available for has the cash flow statement showing its financial position, as well as the credit and financing lines available rent. at year-end For the Group. R+D activities In addition, the Group has complied with the parameters established in its financial covenants which show that there is sufficient headroom to increase the available financing lines. The Group has not capitalised research and development programmes under assets. However, quality of service c) Market risk: is a key strategy for the Group and, accordingly, all the operating processes incorporate the latest developments in the vehicle rental sector, where the Company is one of the leaders in technological progress. The Company's financial debt is exposed to interest rate risk, which could have an adverse effect on financial results and cash flows. Personnel The Company performs practically all its operations in euros, consequently the exchange rate risk is The Group's human resources policies, which guide the professional and human development of the team, have considered residual. not undergone any relevant changes in the current exercise. The workforce has grown according to the needs of the business and new measures are continuously evaluated to favor the development of the individual and the collective. Barcelona, 28 March 2017 Our corporate social responsibility report, available on our website, discloses additional aspects regarding our human resources culture and policy. There are no additional personnel issues that need to be disclosed. Information on late payments to suppliers The Information on Late Payments to Suppliers is as follows: Days 2016 2015 Average period of payments to suppliers 31.51 27.59 Ratio of paid transactions 31.14 27.22 Ratio of outstanding operations 34.25 34.03 Thousand of euros Total payments made 74,576 95,335 Total pending payments 9,903 5,454 Information on the nature and risk of the financial instruments The financial risk management of the Group is centralised in the Financial Department which has established the necessary mechanisms to control the exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk, as well as the possible fluctuations in interest and exchange rates. The main financial risks that the Group faces are as follows: a) Credit risk: 50 51 Preparation of the consolidated annual accounts and consolidated directors’ report The preparation of the these consolidated annual accounts and the consolidated directors’ report has been carried out by the Board of Directors of Car Rentals Topco, S.L. at its meeting held on 28 March 2017, and they will be submitted for approval by the Sole Shareholder. The mentioned consolidated annual accounts comprise the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of profit or loss and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the notes to the consolidated financial statements. All the documents mentioned above and the consolidated directors’ report have been signed in all of their pages by the Secretary of the Board of Directors, while the present page has been signed by all of the members of the Board of Directors. p.168 www.goldcar.es
