Benetton Group Integrated Report 2016 Benetton Group Integrated Report 2016 Contents Letter from the Chairman 5 Highlights 2016 9 1 Benetton Group profile 13 1.1. About us 14 1.2. History 18 1.3. Our Brands, our values 20 1.4. Governance 23 2. Generating long-term value 29 2.1. The Group’s business model 32 2.2. The Group’s main strategies 44 2.3. Risk management 47 2.4. Value generated by Benetton 50 2.5. Looking to the future 54 3. Strategic priorities and results 57 3.1. Consumer centricity 62 3.1.1. Innovation 63 3.1.2. Commitment and transparency 66 3.2. Our People 72 3.2.1. Our numbers 73 3.2.2. Benetton Group People Strategy 76 3.2.3. Training and professional growth 80 3.2.4. Rewarding and engagement 82 3.2.5. Industrial relations 83 3.2.6. “Zero injuries” target 84 3.2.7. Respect for human rights at Benetton 86 3.3. Sustainable Business Operations 87 3.3.1. Management of social impacts 89 3.3.2. Management of environmental impacts 92 3.3.3. Sustainability of raw materials 99 Annex Methodological notes 103 GRI Content Index 111 Letter from the Chairman Dear Stakeholders, Benetton Group presents its first Integrated Report pursuant to the recently enforced regulations for listed companies, but above all because our employees, customers and suppliers, the territory and our shareholders are interested in the Company’s results obtained in the social and environmental spheres, as well as production and distribution, in addition to the standard economic and financial data. Despite the unavailability of previous formal reporting, Benetton Group has always been active in the area of social responsibility. All initiatives undertaken by the Group have been and continue to be inextricably linked to the commitment of offering our customers “sustainable” and high-quality products, manufactured according to socially sustainable criteria, in full respect of people and the environment and distributed in stores accessible to all. Along with the investments in commercial development, e-commerce, the acquisition of the Korean joint venture and the radical renewal of the Company’s IT system, the Group has implemented a series of tools, including the Sustainability Committee and the Unhate Foundation, with a view to reinforcing its sustainability strategy. The Group has also stipulated collaborations with the most authoritative non-profit associations and international bodies, which the Company has supported for some time in order to give a voice to the “rest of the world”. Examples include collaborations with the UN United Nations on a number of joint projects, such as the Women Empowerment Program, and the Detox program promoted by Greenpeace. With a view to making the Company’s organization more effective and functional to the pursuit of the Group’s goals, a new organizational model was implemented at the beginning of 2017, involving the introduction of the COO function and the direct reporting of central staffing to the Chairman. Internally, during the year the Company’s commitment translated into a close monitoring of social and environmental issues across the supply chain and in compliance with the most stringent international standards in the matter of product safety. In addition, numerous actions were carried out in order to reduce harmful emissions and energy consumption. Other initiatives included the “Benetton Per Te” corporate welfare system, associated with the introduction of the Smart Working project and a significant boost for the development of the Company’s training platform. All the actions were pursued with great determination, despite the generally negative conditions of the apparel market and the geopolitical uncertainties in some geographic regions with a negative impact on our economic and financial performances, which finished below last year’s levels. For over fifty years Benetton Group has believed that producing and selling higher quality garments wearable over the years by adults and resistant to the exuberance of children as they grow up has a social value, resulting in a positive impact on people’s lives, thanks to a series of universally shared values based on tolerance and respect for diversity. Benetton Group will continue to increase its efforts, leveraging on this unique and distinctive legacy of values as one of the cornerstones of its business model and a key element in ensuring the Company’s success in the long term. Francesco Gori The Chairman Benetton Group 7 Benetton Group Highlights 2016 5,289 stores in the world 1,490 euro million economic value generated alternative packaging product safety tests over 40,000 cardboard trees -1,340 tons -20,000 7,275 separate waste collection employees 71% 29% Benetton campus 89% 1/ Benetton Group Profile 13 1.1/ About us Founded in 1965, today Benetton Group is one of the Established in November 2011 through a global world’s best-known apparel companies. Benetton Group communication campaign, the Unhate Foundation is is a socially responsible organization that looks to the one of the key elements of the Group’s new corporate future and lives in the present, paying attention to the social responsibility strategy and social commitment environment, people’s dignity and the transformations hub. In line with Benetton Group’s core values, Unhate in society. Committed to innovation through color, a Foundation’s mission is to help fight the culture of new store concept, a unique sales network and global hatred through global communication campaigns and the communication that has always sparked social and cultural organization of concrete projects that have a “real impact” debate the Group boasts a consolidated identity based on the international community, and particularly on the on style, color, authentic fashion, quality at affordable younger generations, with the involvement of institutions, prices and passion. These values are reflected in the international organizations, NGOs and representatives of powerful and dynamic personality of United Colors of civil society. Based on the social role of art and individual Benetton and Sisley. self-expression as a means of educating people Present in the world’s major markets with over 5,200 stores in strategic locations in historic town centers and to tolerance, the projects target youth living in areas considered “at risk”, from Brazil to India and to New York’s shopping malls, the United Colors of Benetton and Sisley sales network, is supported by significant investment Puerto Rican neighborhoods. programs all over the world. The new stores are highly modular in order to create spaces suitable for displaying the The key principles of the Foundation are summarized here below: collections, the colors and designs in an increasingly effective way, making the store even more attractive, dynamic ; the fight against hatred and discrimination in all of its forms; and interactive. ;  support for the next generations: youth represents the key beneficiaries of the Foundation’s projects Benetton Group faces the challenges of globalization through constant investments and a competent and flexible and activities; organization open to change. In recent years, the changes in distribution and in the competitive environment called ; the focus on the social impact of art across all activities undertaken by the Foundation. for speed, quick reaction and a close monitoring of sales channels, resulting in a new orientation for the Company. In fact, in 2014 the Benetton Group started a re-focus and re-launch plan, which was meant to move the Group away from its traditionally sell-in oriented approach with limited monitoring of distribution channels. Consequently, logistics plays a key role, when it comes to serving a global distribution network. The coordination center, located in Castrette (Treviso), which serves the global network of stores effectively, is one of the most modern and advanced industrial logistics infrastructures dedicated to apparel. In addition to the apparel segment, the Group has another two “social” guises, Fabrica and the Unhate Foundation. Fabrica, Benetton Group’s communications research center is the Group’s interface to the world and in the society. Fabrica represents a link to innovation and internationality, combining culture with industry through communication that is no longer exclusively based on traditional formats, but, instead, becomes a vehicle for conveying the “expertise” of an enterprise through numerous different forms of expression, ranging from design and music to cinema production, photography, publishing products, the internet and the new media. Worth mentioning is the Colors magazine, which works as a curious and enthusiast observation platform over “the rest of the world” since 1991. 14 15 1.1/About us 1.1/About us On December 31, 2016 Benetton Group’s corporate structure was as follows. Benetton Group S.r.l. Ponzano Veneto December 31, 2016 100% 100% RETAIL ITALIA NETWORK S.r.l. BENETTON PARS P.J.S.C. Milan (Italy) Tehran (Iran) 100% 100% BENETTON SERVIZI S.r.l. BENETTON DE COMMERCE INTERNATIONAL TUNISIE S.à r.l. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Sahline (Tunisia) 100% 100% FABRICA S.p.A. BENETTON COMMERCIALE TUNISIE S.à r.l. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Sousse (Tunisia) 65% (*) 100% BENSEC S.c. a r.l. BENETTON INDIA Pvt. Ltd. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Gurgaon (India) 100% 100% PONZANO CHILDREN S.r.l. BENETTON ASIA PACIFIC Ltd. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Hong Kong (China) 100% 100% VILLA MINELLI SOCIETÀ AGRICOLA a r.l. SHANGHAI BENETTON TRADING COMPANY Ltd. Ponzano Veneto (Italy) Shanghai (China) 100% 100% BEN-MODE A.G. BENETTON TRADING TAIWAN Ltd. Zurich (Switzerland) Taipei (Taiwan) 100% 100% BENETTON RETAIL DEUTSCHLAND GmbH BENETTON JAPAN Co. Ltd. Frankfurt am Main (Germany) Tokyo (Japan) 100% 100% (**) BENETTON DENMARK A.p.S. BENETTON KOREA Inc. Copenhagen (Denmark) Seoul (South Korea) 100% 100% BENETTON AGENCY IRELAND Ltd. BENETTON RUSSIA O.O.O. Dublin (Ireland) Moscow (Russia) 100% 100% BENETTON FRANCE COMMERCIAL S.A.S. KAZAN REAL ESTATE O.O.O. Paris (France) Moscow (Russia) 100% 100% BENETTON RETAIL SPAIN S.L. BENETTON TRADING USA Inc. Barcelona (Spain) Somerset (USA) 100% 100% BENETTON 2 RETAIL COMÉRCIO DE PRODUTOS TÊXTEIS S.A. BENETTON MEXICANA S.A. de C.V. Porto (Portugal) Mexico City (Mexico) 100% 100% BENETTON RETAIL POLAND Sp. z o.o. BENETTON SERVICES S.A. de C.V. Warsaw (Poland) Mexico City (Mexico) 100% 100% BENETTON HELLAS AGENCY OF CLOTHING E.P.E. BENETTON SERVICES II S.A. de C.V. Tavros (Greece) Mexico City (Mexico) 100% BENETTON GIYIM SANAYI VE TICARET A.S. Istanbul (Turkey) (*) Benetton Group S.r.l. owns also indirectly the 13% of the capital stock; the remaining 22% is owned by companies connected to Edizione S.r.l. (**) Benetton Japan Co. Ltd. owns directly the further 50% of the capital stock. 16 17 1.2/ History 1965 Benetton Group is founded. 2011 The Unhate Foundation, launched with a global communication campaign, is established and is one of the components of the new corporate social responsibility strategy, as well as the Group’s social commitment hub. 1969 First store opens outside Italy. 2012 Benetton Group delists from the Milan Stock Exchange, having delisted from those of New York and 1974 Sisley enters the Group’s brand portfolio. Frankfurt. Alessandro Benetton is the new Chairman of Benetton Group S.p.A., succeeding founder Luciano Benetton. In November he becomes the new Chairman of Fabrica. 1978 Group exports reach 60% of prouduction. Launch of Unemployee of the year, a new global communications campaign previewed for the first time by Alessandro Benetton in London. 1983 The Group enters Formula 1 as sponsor of the Tyrrel team. In 1986, following the acquisition of Toleman, the Benetton Formula Limited racing team is created and wins one constructors’ and two drivers’ world 2013 Benetton Group is recognized by Greenpeace for its commitment to safeguarding the environment and championships. In 2000 Renault acquires the Benetton team. product safety. 1985 Benetton advertising wins the “Grand Prix de la Publicité” in France. It is the first in a series of 2014 The company is organized into three separate entities: one focused directly on the brands, one on acknowledgments that, together with criticisms and censorship, foster debate in many countries around manufacturing and one on real estate management. the world. Benetton Group shareholders’ meeting appoints Gianni Mion as non-executive Chairman. Launch of “On Canvas”, a new store concept that makes the product the real protagonist of the historic United Colors of Benetton brand. The first openings are in Milan, Moscow and Berlin. 1986 The Group is listed on the Milan, Frankfurt (1988) and New York (1989) stock exchanges. 2015 The refocus and relaunch plan is completed on January 1, 2015, with the partial demerger of Benetton 1987 Fondazione Benetton Studi e Ricerche is established, as is the Carlo Scarpa International Award. Group S.r.l. Benetton launches the Benetton Women Empowerment Program, a long-term project to support the rights of women around the world. 1991 COLORS magazine, distributed in 40 countries and translated into four languages, is launched. 2016 In April 2016 Benetton Group S.r.l. takes full control of Benetton Korea Inc. 1994 Fabrica, Benetton Group’s Communications Research Centre, is founded. May 2016: Francesco Gori is the new Chairman of Benetton Group, succeeding Gianni Mion. In October Benetton launches the Seamless line. 2005 Benetton is present in 120 countries with 5,000 stores. Alessandro Benetton is appointed Deputy Chairman of the Group. 2009 Benetton opens the first store of the future in Istanbul, as part of the “Opening soon…” project. 18 19 1.3/ Our Brands, our values Benetton Group operates in Italy and in the world with two brands: UCB United Colors of Benetton and Sisley. A brand that puts the people at the center capable of creating an emotional connection with them based on a shared vision of what really matters, a set of common values. Net sales 2016 by brand (millions of euro and %) An unconventional brand, a brand that goes beyond cultural stereotypes and takes a stand, committed to ensuring the coexistence of opposites, eliminating barriers, while fostering dialogue and reconciling differences. Benetton has always promoted these values through innovative communications, the core of the Company, and through collaborations with the most authoritative non-profit associations and international bodies. Since 2015, United Colors of Benetton has continued to pursue and consolidate its repositioning process by United Colors of Benetton (1,217 88%) Sisley (159 12%) reinforcing the bond between the product and the core values, based on a strategy focused on innovation, quality and sustainability. This was a complex process necessary to offer a quality product capable of meeting consumer demands. “We want to design products that convey joyand make people feel happy” The Group’s brands and values have always been closely connected. UCB expresses colors, original designs and knits, the epitome of joy, quality and style. Sisley features bold collections targeted to contemporary and unconventional To meet this goal, at the end of 2016 UCB reviewed entirely its design process, which is expected to be completed by consumers. end of 2017. Thanks to this project, UCB intends to offer products that will make consumers feel happy through: UCB United Colors of Benetton ; good knits ; good quality “Masters of knitting, we make knits for everyone, like nobody else. In 1955 we started our business with our first ; good colors sewing machine and we never stopped since then, experimenting with new techniques, processes and materials. ; good price United Colors of Benetton is universally synonymous of color”. ; good speed In the 1960s, Luciano and Giuliana Benetton developed the first colored sweater from a yellow stitch, a revolutionary This is the content of the communication that UCB intends to use to reach its consumers. And these are the pillars of garment for men and women all over the world. the product and marketing strategies implemented by Benetton Group. A 360° philosophy: color as a synonym of optimism, diversity and creativity. For over 50 years these keywords have been interwoven in the design of UCB products and served as leit motif in all of the Company’s activities. The brand grew and became global through market expansion. As a result, the concept of United Colors opened up to include universal values like tolerance, peace and respect for diversity. These values are today integrating part of the brand identity. 20 21 1.3/Our Brands, our values 1.4/ Governance Sisley The Company adopts a system of corporate governance under which its governing body is the Board of Directors, A brand with a strong personality: sexy, unconventional and with a powerful assisted by the Board committees. The body that oversees observance of the law, the Company’s Articles of contemporary design. In addition to its signature style, Sysley’s communication Association and good management practices is the Board of Statutory Auditors, while an Independent Auditing Firm strategy is focused on giving visibility to the brand universe through is responsible for the statutory audit of the accounts. an interesting mix of seduction, modernity and style innovation, leveraging on the testimonials to reinforce the message. Recent campaigns captured that Overview of the Company’s Governance structure since May 16, 2017. urban, irreverent and dynamic style that is a distinctive characteristic of the brand, combining online activities and those on the social media with an increasingly large community of followers. SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGBLEA DEI SOCI (100% Schematrentasette S.r.l.) In 2016 Sisley underwent a repositioning process, started in 2014, mainly focused on the Premium Bridge segment. In recent years, this segment INDEPENDENT BOARD OF posted growth driven both by an increasing number of knowledgeable AUDITORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS STATUTORY AUDITORS Ernst & Young S.p.A. Angelo Casò (Chairman) consumers looking for products with fashion content and a correct value-forAntonio Cortellazzo money ratio and by the effects of repositioning strategies implemented by Filippo Duodo some brands. In Europe, Sisley targets consumers from both the Luxury and Mass Market segments, while in emerging countries the brand aims at attracting new customers, who will progressively increase their spending power as a result of increased income. EXECUTIVES NON-EXECUTIVES INDEPENDENT 1. Francesco Gori (Executive Chairman) 2. Marco Patuano 07. Tommaso Barracco This strategy aims at opening new market segments for Sisley, reaching an increasing number of consumers attracted 3. Christian Benetton 08. Fabio Buttignon by a product offering that stands out for marked distinctive style identity and superior quality materials, contributing 4. Franca Bertagnin Benetton 09. Francesco Panfilo to increasing the value of the brand away from the price component that was considered a key element in the past. 5. Sabrina Benetton 10. James McArthur 6. Christian Coco Consistently with the brand repositioning process, the FW 2016 advertising campaign “When attitude is genetic” was developed in collaboration with Vogue Italia, which was responsible for the management and detailed execution of the project under the supervision of Franca Sozzani. The protagonists were Yasmin and Amber Le Bon, observed through the lens of the total complicity that developes Human Resources between a mother and her daughter grown up surrounded by fashion and music. Investment Control and Remuneration Monitoring Body Committee and Risk Committee Committee under Leg. Decree 231/01 Tommaso Barracco (Chairman) Fabio Buttignon (Chairman) Francesco Panfilo (Chairman) Ugo Fonzar (Chairman) Marco Patuano Christian Coco Marco Patuano Roberto Taiariol (Head of Internal Audit) James McArthur Francesco Panfilo Tommaso Barracco Andrea Pezzangora (General Counsel) Christian Coco Christian Coco Head of Internal Audit Roberto Taiariol Note: Until May 16, 2017, the following formed part of the Board of Directors: Marco Airoldi in the role of CEO, Alfredo Malguzzi in the role of non-executive and independent director. Alfredo Malguzzi was also chairman of the Control and Risk Committee and the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee. As of May 16, 2017, Tommaso Brusò has been appointed Chief Operating Officer (COO). 22 23 1.4/Governance 1.4/Governance Board of Directors Management Model”, pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree 231/2001, which has been adopted by the Company and also includes the Code of Ethics, and to evaluate whether to present the Board of Directors with The Board of Directors is the body responsible for managing the business. Among other things it examines recommendations for updating and/or amending such model and its method of application; and approves: ;  to evaluate all auditing and non-auditing services provided by the Independent Auditors and to express an opinion as to their appropriateness and consistency as a necessary requirement prior to confirming their appointment; ; the guidelines for the Group’s operations; ;  the proposals concerning organization and ; to assess and verify the independence of the external Independent Auditors. corporate governance; ;  the general guidelines regarding the management of human resources; Human Resources and Remuneration Committee The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee serves in a due diligence, advisory and/or recommendation; the proposals to reorganize the corporate structure; making capacity in support of the Board of Directors and in particular: ; the results of operations; ; the extraordinary corporate actions; ; i t presents proposals on the overall remuneration of the Chairman, directors and senior managers of the Company and the Group; ;  the annual budgets and quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results. ; it examines performance targets and incentive plans for employees of the Company and the Group; ; it evaluates proposals regarding: Investment Committee * composition criteria and skills profiles of the managers identified as components of management and control The Investment Committee serves in a due diligence, advisory and/or recommendation-making capacity in support of bodies in the strategically important subsidiaries; the Board of Directors with regard to: * policies for the strategic development of human resources; ;  specific investment projects, assessing their consistency with the Group’s strategic guidelines, their profitability * recruitment and appointment of senior managers of the Company and the Group. targets and financial sustainability; ; Company procedures regarding investments and significant transactions. Organizational model under Italian Legislative In general, the Committee monitors the implementation of the approved investment programs by following their execution in terms of costs incurred and actual return on investment (post-audit), analyzing the main critical issues. Decree 231/2001 The current Organization, Management and Control Model adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors Control and Risk Committee on March 1, 2016, to replace the one approved in 2008, The Control and Risk Committee, whose members have suitable experience in accounting and finance, has the comprises a general part and numerous special parts. following main duties: The Code of Ethics approved by the Company is treated ;  to assist the Board of Directors in defining the guidelines of the internal controls and in determining the criteria as an integral part of the Model. Under its Code of Ethics, for deciding whether the risks facing the Company and its subsidiaries are compatible with good and sound the Group has adopted the International Labor Standards management practices. At the request of the Executive Chairman, it expresses opinions on specific issues (ILS) contained in the fundamental conventions of the concerning the identification of the principal business risks; International Labor Organization (ILO). ;  to assist the Board of Directors in evaluating the adequacy, efficacy and effective functioning of the system of internal controls, which it oversees; ;  to provide the Board of Directors indications and information on for the compliance with corporate governance rules; ;  to assess, together with the Chief Financial Officer and the Independent Auditors, the adequacy of the accounting standards adopted and their consistency for the purposes of preparing consolidated financial statements; ; to verify, with the help of the Head of Internal Audit, the process that generates the financial reporting data; ; to monitor the effectiveness of the auditing process and assess the results published in the Independent Auditors’ report and the opinion letter; ;  to receive the annual report of the Head of Internal Audit on the application of the “Organization and 24 25 1.4/Governance 1.4/Governance Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee set up by Board of Directors in 2015 defines and oversees Benetton Group’s sustainability strategy. The establishment of this Committee is further evidence of the Company’s commitment, at all levels, to becoming an agent of social change through its initiatives. The objectives of Benetton Group’s Sustainability Committee include: ; promoting the effective and continuous integration of sustainability initiatives into business activities and supporting the work of the CSR Director; ; harmonizing all sustainability activities; ; promoting dialogue with internal and external stakeholders on sustainability issues; ; examining and periodically reviewing corporate sustainability implementation tools starting with the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers and its implementation procedures also in light of possible risks related to brand reputation; ; p roviding the Board of Directors with a constant flow of information and indications regarding the application of the corporate sustainability strategy and its tools; ; o verseeing activities related to integrated reporting and the disclosure of KPIs and relevant information on environmental and social issues. The Committee was composed as follows: Tommaso Brusò _ Chief Operating Officer Lorenzo Dovesi _ Dir. Operations & Sourcing Teri Naccarato _ Dir. UCB Merchandise & Design Roberto Taiariol _ Dir. Internal Audit & CSR Carlo Tunioli _ CEO Fabrica 27 2/ Generating long-term value 29 5,289 stores garments produced 90 markets 100 million 1,376 net sales 27 online markets euro million 2.1/ The Group’s business model In 2014 Benetton Group launched a major reorganization process reaching up to the stores and consumers. In the first phase the Group concentrated on its core activities, i.e. brand management, product management and Product distribution, through the completion of a spin-off of its real estate and manufacturing activities, which were Research & Development transferred to other companies controlled by Edizione S.r.l. The latter transaction, completed in 2014, resulted in a Traditionally at the core of the Company’s activities, Benetton Group’s research and development seeks to provide radical change in the Group’s business model, i.e. from a sell-in based model to a sell-out, consumer centric model. the end consumer with innovative and cutting-edge products. It comprises the design of new models for the Consistently with the actions scheduled for the second part of the Group’s relaunch plan, in the last two years, the collections, the management of the brands and the related commercial activities. The study of the models for apparel, Group concentrated on laying the foundations for its future evolution. This involved: footwear and accessories is organized in various departments that collaborate closely to obtain the highest levels of ; a brand positioning review to leverage on the distinctive elements of the UCB and Sisley brands, which have quality. The same applies for innovation, thanks to continuous research and experimentation with fabrics, colors and unique value in the global apparel market; styles, with particular reference to the creative, technical and economic aspects of the product. ; an update of the business model to make it more in line with emerging market trends and competition; ; implementation of an action plan including activities aimed at reorganizing the Company’s pillars: people, Sourcing organization, processes and systems. Management of the supply chain is a key aspect for the business activities of Benetton Group, even more so following the recent corporate reorganization that has resulted in the almost total outsourcing of manufacturing processes. At present, Benetton Group owns two brands, United Colors of Benetton and Sisley through parent Benetton To this end, in recent years Benetton Group has placed great emphasis on constructing long-term collaborations and Group S.r.l. The latter’s role is guiding the reorganization process, defining and implementing brand strategies at every partnerships with its suppliers. level, managing the entire product design process, product manufacturing and distribution cycle, and coordinating Starting with selection and qualification, the relationship with suppliers is based on the principles and criteria of quality, the direct sales network and relations with external partners. In addition, Benetton Group S.r.l. is also responsible competitiveness of the products, transparency and respect for social, ethical and environmental principles. The for stipulating sales and supply agreements, national and international partnerships, the management of relations with qualification process takes place via the FEP (Factory Evaluation Profile), a technical and qualitative assessment of licensees and everything that may be required to ensure the most comprehensive management of the business. the supplier that guarantees compliance with the criteria established by Benetton. In addition, Benetton monitors its suppliers’ compliance with the requisites of its Code of Conduct for Manufacturers The upshot today is that Benetton Group’s core business is mainly focused on sell-out. The cornerstones of this and Code of Ethics through an audit program that covers, on an ongoing basis, all those suppliers considered most at model are the product and the store, key components of the Group’s value proposition and both managed down risk from an environmental and social perspective. to the finest of detail, from the concept phase to manufacturing and marketing, with an emphasis on innovation and e digital transformation. Production Finished garment manufacturing has been almost completely outsourced since 2015. Most of the suppliers used by PRODUCT STORE Benetton to manufacture clothing and accessories (about 69% of all supplies) are located outside Europe. R&D R&D DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION INNOVATION SOURCING DEVELOPMENT Rest of the world 25% Europe 31% VISUAL PRODUCTION MERCHANDISING Asia 44% LOGISTICS DISTRIBUTION EXPERIENCE 32 33 2.1/The Group’s business model 2.1/The Group’s business model In the 2016 operating period the Operations & Sourcing department was tasked with implementing a series of actions Seamless and projects aimed at maintaining a high level of competitiveness even in challenging market conditions, at the same In October 2016 Benetton Group launched the time supporting the evolution of the Company’s business model. Seamless line: this limited series of garments (200,000 a year) is manufactured within Benetton Group at the One of the main priorities was the need to control the inflationary pressure on the cost of the product connected Italian production site of Castrette di Villorba. with the price of the dollar against the euro, which stabilized during the year after years of gradual strengthening. The industrial logistics center in Castrette, around 1,500 To achieve this goal it was necessary to act promptly and decisively on levers such as the redistribution of the m2 in area, has been fitted with 36 Shima Seiki machines, geographical sourcing mix, the strengthening of bargaining power through the consolidation of partnerships with next-generation looms used for the creation of the strategic suppliers, and the fall in logistics costs due to a reduction in the use of air transport. limited edition seamless “TV-31100” sweaters, designed Consistent with the brand strategy, close attention was also focused on maintaining the high quality standards with and manufactured in Treviso, with which the United which the Group’s products have always been associated. It was possible to meet this goal thanks, first and foremost, Colors of Benetton brand aims to place knitwear, to the Company’s rigorous monitoring of the territory, which enables it to exert close control over the supply chain know-how and innovation at center stage once again. upstream. Other key factors were the consolidated know-how of the team of skilled and expert technicians and the The “TV-31100” (which takes its name from Treviso increasingly relevant role played by the engineering process as regards the quality of the results. postal code where Benetton was founded in 1965) The goal of maintaining excellent quality standards was met while preserving high levels of service, with over 90% is produced using the innovative Whole Garment of garments delivered to stores within the established deadlines, thanks to precise delivery planning and monitoring Technology, a weaving technique that minimizes the wool activities. The ability to guarantee both quality and high levels of service required first of all an effective process for wastage thus reducing environmental impact selecting suppliers, the number of which has gradually been streamlined in recent years: all currently active suppliers and ensuring a perfect fit. are selected with a close focus on their technical abilities and the Company remains intent on creating stable and long-lasting relationships with them. Production in India In a year marked by particularly challenging market conditions, factors such as speed and responsiveness have become The only Group’s production facility is located in the industrial district of Gurgaon (India) and covers an area even more important: they have been realized through activities of product recovery and product injection, distinctive of almost 3,000 m2. Opened in 1993, the site employs over 50 full-time technicians, designers and workers who for their fast time-to-market. produce garments exclusively for the local market. Currently the site has a sampling room, a cutting room, an The Operations & Sourcing Department’s commitment to offering our customers increasingly sustainable and socially embroidery section, a printing section and a storage area for raw materials. responsible products has also remained constant, through the continuous monitoring of garments and their content through automatic test procedures that have been used in the Group for years, the respect for the Code of Ethics and the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers guaranteed by a plan of audits prerequisite for the selection of new suppliers and the monitoring of the impact of production processes on the environment. With regard to the latter, and with particular reference to the wet processes, Benetton Group has been included among the world’s top three companies in the Greenpeace Detox campaign ranking. 34 35 2.1/The Group’s business model 2.1/The Group’s business model Store United Colors of Benetton Sisley Research & Development Research & Development The new On Canvas format is the evolution of the Benetton store, a meeting of history and modernity, quality and The new Rich & Raw format was developed to support the repositioning of the Sisley brand from the Mass to the attention to the customer. An all-Italian project in terms of style, design and elegance, the format comprises an Bridge Premium segment. In recent seasons the Brand has once again been recognized by consumers for its ability to innovative structure that is designed to be welcoming, functional and dynamic, a place where the customer is the focal offer a rock and sexy twist on the latest fashions thanks to the improved quality of the product and a concept that is point of an authentic design, technology and emotive experience in a store that is continuously changing in terms of its consistent with the distinctive, sensual and modern image of the brand. spaces, colors and materials. Development Development The central element of the Benetton store is the loom, a tribute to knitwear and color, cornerstones of United Colors An environment that is Rich and refined yet also unconventionally rock and Raw: this is the sensation transmitted of Benetton’s history. A symbol of tradition and artisanship and now also an emblem of innovation, seasons, collections, by the furnishings, the accessories and the materials used, which infuse a burst of energy, passion and engagement colors and materials are constructed around the loom using a solid yet light structure, simple and almost invisible. The in Sisley stores. new format has been rolled out to a large number of the direct stores and some of the indirect ones (FOS and IOS). At In 2016, the most important refit was the one carried out in the Palermo store. Furthermore, the first store with the end of 2016, 220 stores worldwide had been opened or redeveloped with the new format. the new concept was opened in Greece, in the Glyfada neighborhood of Athens. At the end of the year, around 70 The high-profile new openings include those in Dubai, New Delhi, St. Petersburg, Rome, Mexico City, Zagreb and Istanbul, stores and corners had introduced the Rich & Raw concept, with the majority in the three main markets: Italy, Korea to name just a few. These developments constitute an important driver for the renewal of the network, characterized by and Taiwan. modern and highly appealing stores. Visual Merchandising Design Visual Merchandising Design Rich & Raw aims at sparking the interest of an increasing number of consumers attracted by a product offering that The On Canvas design solutions make all kinds of transformation within the store a possibility: the materials and stands out for marked style identity and superior quality materials, contributing to increasing the value of the brand by canvases change, the spaces evolve to create an infinite array of different solutions with the aim of offering customers a paying tribute to the pair of sentiments that the format manages to transmit to customers that enter Sisley stores that unique shopping experience. have adopted it. 36 37 2.1/The Group’s business model 2.1/The Group’s business model Logistics The warehouse in Castrette is crucial for this logistic model: a completely automated 25,000 m2 hub equipped with forty-six 20.5 meter-high stacker cranes for the picking Benetton Group’s Logistics of boxes destined for the approximately 5,200 stores across the world. The Logistics For some years, the business model of Benetton Group has evolved in a perspective that places the consumer at department of Benetton Group also carries out inbound and outbound customs clearance the center of all business processes. operations internally as part of a completely digitalized relationship with Customs; its recent This decision has impacted strongly on the Group’s logistics model, which has also had to evolve in order to guarantee attainment of EU AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) certification, granted to Benetton a service tailored to the needs of the store, consistent with a production system characterized by the growing Group since 2009 for being a highly qualified operator with regard to customs regulations, has also allowed to importance of the make-to-stock model(1), which is able to ensure better levels of product traceability. significantly reduce the number of controls on goods, substantially improving its levels of efficiency. The investments made in recent years to improve the efficiency of the model, organization and automation of this area have allowed to achieve the goal of the increasing centralization of logistics processes and their total integration Focus: Main projects of the Group’s logistics within the Company’s production cycle, from the order collection phase to packaging and delivery to the point of sale. The introduction of an automatic replenishment system has made it possible to meet the replenishment needs of Finally, in recent years a reverse logistics network has been developed that makes it possible to retrieve unsold stock stores more efficiently by leveraging on the online reading of sales information and consumer preferences, now from a single warehouse in Biancade (Treviso) and redirect it to outlets or wholesalers. available in real time thanks to the online connection between stores and the head office. As for the distribution of products sold online (e-commerce), the management of the logistics network is completely entrusted to an external partner that is able to guarantee the flexibility, speed and efficiency of the delivery process. To reduce time-to-market and increase the efficiency of Benetton Group’s activities involve the following logistical operations: the entire distribution process, in 2015 Benetton Group adopted the “Control Tower End-to-End Visibility” solution, allowing the supply chain to be managed INBOUND PICK AND OUTBOUND REVERSE LOGISTIC OUTLET from a single visibility point by integrating the upstream LOGISTIC PACK LOGISTIC perspective (supply) with the downstream one involving FROM SUPPLIER TO WAREHOUSE PICK AND PACK OF FINISHED FROM WAREHOUSE FROM STORES TO THE RETURNS WAREHOUSE WHOLESALERS stores. GARMENT TO STORES This solution – inserted in Gartner’s Magic Quadrant (1) HEADQUARTERS HEADQUARTERS for 2015 thanks to its innovative nature – gives the CASTRETTE CASTRETTE possibility to check the status of any group of Benetton products at any time, with a level of detail that reaches 50% BY TRUCK the individual article. (CASTRETTE 89% BY TRUCK LOGISTICS CENTRE 500,00 GARMENTS The Quick Win project has made it possible to manage PER DAY) 40% BY SEA 7% BY SEA and dispose of stock that has become available through the specific supply per SKU (Stock Keeping Unit) of out SUPPLIER STORE of stock garments to the entire network of stores. 10% BY PLANE 4% BY PLANE The Tracking On-Line project makes it possible to receive the results of deliveries made by the Group’s INDIA INDIA logistics partners to all stores across the world online. (1) G artner Magic Quadrants is a research methodology and visualization tool for 92% BY TRUCK 92% BY TRUCK monitoring and evaluating the progress and positions of companies in a specific, technology-based market. 6% BY SEA 6% BY SEA 2% BY PLANE 2% BY PLANE % calculated % calculated on volumes on volumes (1) M.T.S. (Make-to-stock), a strategy whereby products (for inventory) are manufactured on the basis of sales forecasts. 38 39 2.1/The Group’s business model 2.1/The Group’s business model Distribution Stores: Direct channel (DOS) Total 1,065 REST OF EUROPE 288 Company’s distribution network ITALY 126 Direct channel DOS 20% REST OF THE WORLD 651 Indirect channel FOS/IOS 80% Benetton Group’s traditional distribution model was oriented towards sell-in, with the Company carrying out limited Stores: Indirect channel (FOS + IOS) Total 4,224 controls on the sales channels which consisted mostly of stores managed by independent business partners who REST OF EUROPE were responsible for contact with consumers. 1,341 In terms of operations, over time the Group has structured its sales network into three types of channels: the ITALY 1,403 direct channel represented by stores managed directly by Benetton Group (DOS), normally located in big cities and “premium” positions, the indirect channel comprising stores managed by independent partners (IOS) and franchisees (FOS), covering suburban areas and the digital channel via e-commerce sites. REST OF THE WORLD 1,480 In 2016 the sales network was made up of around 5,000 stores, comprising: ;  direct channel: directly-managed stores, outlets and corners in department stores (DOS Directly Operated Stores); ; indirect channel: stores managed by clients (FOS Franchising Operated Stores / IOS Indirectly Operated Stores). Sales (millions of euro) Total 1,376 REST OF EUROPE 534 ITALY 502 REST OF THE WORLD 340 40 41 2.1/The Group’s business model 2.1/The Group’s business model The new structure is meant to facilitate the necessary evolution of the business model according to consumer-driven The monitoring of the global market outside Italy continues to be guaranteed by two regional structures: Europe perspective with a focus on sell-out, the Company’s increased control over sales channels, and the integration and (outside Italy) and Extra Europe, in order to ensure that international business is managed and supported through the sharing of best practices between the direct and the indirect channel. As matter of fact, a close monitoring of sales more effective integration of the foreign offices with the headquarters. In Europe, the leading market continues to be channels is fundamental to receive feedback on customer experience and on the Company’s ability to promptly react that of Italy, where the Group has implemented an extensive and significant distribution strategy. to market changes. As for the markets outside Europe, India and Korea remain the Company’s second and third markets after Italy. The investment policy to develop a distribution platform combining single-brand stores, department stores and digital The direct sales channel (DOS) opportunities continues. A new Benetton retail model has been implemented in the direct channel with the definition of standards of service, Others elements that have contributed to the Group’s performances in non-European countries include: tools, management processes, training methods and performance indicators. After a pilot design and implementation ; the double-digit growth (+50%) of the retail network in Russia; phase focused on a limited sample of stores, the model has been extended to the direct store network in Italy with ; t he acquisition of all of the share capital of the Korean branch, regarded as one of the highest-potential markets positive results in terms of both sales and margins, and is now being gradually rolled out to stores abroad. In general, in the fashion world; the reasons behind the migration from indirect to direct channel can be strategic, in the case of stores located in a ; the rapid increase in sales in the Japanese digital channel; big city or a privileged location, or connected with the presence of critical issues in the relationship with the business ; the double-digit growth in Mexico where the planned goals were achieved. partner. Experience The indirect sales channel (FOS + IOS) The main goal of Benetton Group is to build a lasting relationship with the consumer that is able to generate value To strengthen the control over indirect stores, which represent the main part of the network, a franchise model has in the midto long-term. To achieve this the Company focuses its efforts on ensuring the consistency between the been developed which provides for stronger integration, a modulated range of supports and the application of the brand’s values, the product and the elements that make up the consumer experience in the store, on the street, at retail model adopted by direct stores. home, everywhere. As regards the indirect channels, in 2016 there was a major acceleration in the switch to the FOS channel. In line with this goal, in 2016 the Group pursued a marketing strategy consistent with the messages communicated This is confirmed by the fact that the Group reached its 2016 target of 250 stores. The goal for 2017 is of by the collections of the two brands, UCB and Sisley, and in line with the Company’s values. Likewise, the new store around 400 stores. formats (On Canvas and Rich & Raw) contributed to completing the picture, ensuring effective delivery of the In a market situation characterized by uncertainty and instability, the strengthening of the sales channel through message to the end consumer. franchising can be beneficial for both the partner (who can get greater support and access the Group’s know-how) and Benetton, which can consolidate its level of control over the sales network. E-commerce Control of the digital channels is ensured by the centralization of direct and indirect e-commerce (formerly managed by individual markets) under a single manager, which is tasked with coordinating operations so as to avoid conflicts between channels (e-commerce and physical) and maximizing the strong potential of digital technology in terms of both markets and communications. In addition, with the launch of the new website in July 2016, Benetton Group ushered in a new era for the digital channels which will support the strengthening strategy of the United Colors of Benetton brand. In fact, with a design compatible with tablets and smartphones, the new benetton.com website is able to both fulfill business development requirements and communicate the brand’s values. The Group’s sales channels were also involved in other projects in 2016: ;  the launch in Italy, the Company’s reference market, of a geomarketing project aimed at identifying the majoir areas of potential in which to develop the Group’s distribution presence in the next few years; this project will be extended to the major European markets in 2017; ; the launch of the Travel Retail model with the opening of stores at Italy’s main airports; this project is of particular importance to Benetton Group as it constitutes an effective tool for promoting brand visibility and a significant business test in a dynamic and high potential market segment. 42 43 2.2/ The Group’s main strategies Today, Benetton Group faces a continuously evolving competitive scenario with a business model that has changed Main action areas in 2016 dramatically compared to the past. Therefore, steering efforts to concentrate on core activities and create value in In 2016 the Group continued to pursue its multi-year consolidation and transformation process. Launched in 2015, the long term represent the challenge that the Company faces now and will face over the next few years. this process involves the updating of the business model to bring it more into line with the new market conditions and The corporate reorganization process aims at implementing an operating model that ensures the Company’s the competition (which require greater speed, strong responsiveness and rigorous oversight of the sales channels) competitiveness. As a result, the first step is consolidating and strengthening consistency between the product with the necessary reconfiguration of its organization, processes and systems. and the corporate identity. Accordingly, Benetton Group’s strategy is based on defining its brand identity, as The Company has focused in particular on the consolidation of the lines of action already undertaken the previous year: a representation of a life style for its customers while emphasizing its uniqueness. These elements reflect the roduct/Brand: the strengthening and review of the positioning of the United Colors of Benetton and Sisley PRODOTTO STORE ; P Group’s determination to clarify and reinforce its positioning around the brand’s time-honored core values; brands continued in order to leverage on their distinctive features, which have unique value on the global apparel focus product design on consumer needs and create unique, easily recognizable stores. panorama. The gradual differentiation of the traits of United Colors of Benetton and Sisley continued in order to reinforce the most popular attributes that consumers associate with each one: on one side, UCB continued to “We manufacture quality apparel and are interested in creativity in all of its forms. We believe in intelligence, focus on innovation, quality and sustainability, underlining the founding characteristics and distinctive features of courage and passion. We aim to become a universal and inclusive brand, through the creation of an elegant, its DNA; on the other, Sisley continued to gradually reposition itself in the Bridge Premium segment, proposing global and Italian style.” products with a more marked, strong and contemporary stylistic identity. At the same time the refocusing on knitwear as one of the cornerstones of the Benetton brand identity also In line with its strategic orientation, values and organizational choices made in recent years, Benetton Group continued, resulting in two important initiatives: defined three priority objectives: * the launch of the TV-31100 line based on seamless technology (developed by Shima Seiki with an important ; Consumer Centricity: the consumer is at the center of its business activities; technical contribution made over the years by Benetton) and manufactured in Italy following an important ;  Sustainable Business Operations: business activities are carried out with a view to guaranteeing long-term reshoring initiative; INPUTsustainability; OUTPUT OUTCOMES *  the launch of collaborations with external designers who, leveraging on Benetton’s know-how and tradition in ; Our People: a corporate culture is developed consistently with the values expressed by the brand. the knitwear field, can express their creativity in the “Nice to knit you” initiative. Stella Jean was the first in a 1. 1. Capitale sociale Prodotti Capitale sociale series of future collaborations with other designers; e relazionale e relazionale;  Sales channels: the close monitoring of the sales channels is key to understanding the satisfaction level of the (brand value) (brand value) end consumer and quickly identifying market trends. Therefore, in 2016 the new Benetton retail model (which OUR PEOPLE redefines standards of service, tools, management processes, training methods and performance indicators) 2. 2. continued to be expanded to the network of direct stores in Italy, where it has now been consolidated, and Capitale Servizi Capitale abroad. umano umano In order to strengthen its control over indirect stores, which represent the main part of the network, the INNOVATION Company continued the gradual introduction of the franchise model in collaboration with the partners both Sourcing agents and retailers present in key areas. This model entails a stronger integration, a modulated series of support 3. 3. tools and the application of the best practices adopted by direct retail stores. SUSTAINABLE B Capitale Capitale Store format: the work to extend the two new store models (On Canvas for United Colors of Benetton produttivo produttivo ; PRODUCT and Rich & Raw for Sisley) to the network of direct stores and franchisees has continued. RICIT Y STORE US Logistica ; Processes: working with greater speed and responsiveness, a condition that goes along with the transition ENT IN from a push/sell-in approach to a pull/sell-out one, has made it necessary to conduct a complete overhaul of C ER ES 4. 4. processes and systems in both the logistics and sourcing areas. Building on the work carried out in 2015 in the Capitale Distribuzione Altri Capitale S M logistic department, a series of solutions were developed during the year to guarantee a logistics service that is finanziario outputs finanziario U DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION S practically tailored to sales requirements (automatic replenishment, prompt reallocation of products to stores, Waste from packaging Experience O reverse logistics). Regarding Sourcing, work continued to streamline the supplier base on the basis of a more CO NS N TIO effective selection process, a key pre-requisite to guarantee high levels of service and to shorten the 5. RA 5. Capitale PE Capitale “design-to-shelf” cycle, which will gradually be introduced in the coming collections. naturale Emissioni GHG naturale ;  Organization: the comprehensive review of the business model has had, and continues to have, direct effects Outputs derivanti dai trasporti esterni on Company organization. The broad transformation entailed the replacement and the enhancement of the Scarico delle acqueGHG Emissioni derivanti management team to make it more international and add industry and specialist expertise to complement and dai trasporti 6. Scarico 6. complete the existing know-how. Finally, a Business Transformation department was created to define strategies Capitale delle acque Capitale 44 intellettuale intellettuale 45 2.2/The Group’s main strategies 2.3/ Risk management and the reorganization process, to orchestrate and coordinate the numerous change projects launched for the Risk is the combination of the probability of an event happening and the effects it will have. Taking risks is an integral adjustment of the business model and structures, and to intensify the ongoing Change Management initiatives. part of business. ; Sustainability: the Group continued to pursue the strategic objectives established by the Sustainability Benetton Group focuses the utmost attention on risk management and believes it is fundamental to assess, both Committee for 2015-2016, that are: beforehand and continuously, the level of risk associated with strategic objectives for the creation of sustainable value. * sustainable supply chains with particular focus on the situation of women; Following the completion of the complex Company reorganization process that saw the core activities, such as * product quality and consumer safety; management of the brand, the product and distribution, concentrated in Benetton Group, a new risk assessment was *  social engagement initiatives centered on people, according to the UN Sustainable Development Goals carried out in 2016 to identify and manage internal and external risks, as well as to identify corrective actions in order reference framework. to lower the residual risk level to values regarded as acceptable. ; Digital Transformation: the Company continued its work to set up the necessary conditions to effectively embark on the process of the digital transformation of its main processes and the monitoring of its digital Strategic risks communication and sales channels. These are risks that could threaten the Company’s current competitive position and the pursuit of its strategic objectives. This category comprises: Brand strategy Risks connected with the UCB brand repositioning strategy, which may not have the desired effect if not carried out with the speed or progressiveness required to avoid losing current consumers without acquiring new customers. Distribution channels Risks deriving from the failure to meet new store opening goals as well as the uncontrolled growth of the online market, and e-tailers in particular, which may create conflicts with the Company’s other strategic objectives, with potential negative effects also on brand positioning. Supply chain The ability of the supply chain to respect the delivery times of finished products established by the business calendar (included in the broader concept-to-shelf program) can impact on global profitability. Country strategy and market presence The arrival of international brands in the Indian and Korean markets, which are very important to Benetton, requires the delicate transition of the content of the UCB brand collection towards more global styles compared with the current ones which have a strong local influence. Executive risks The risks of losses inherent in the Company’s operations, deriving from: human error; the incorrect functioning of the organization; internal processes and the use of systems; unlawful behavior connected with fraudulent conduct; legal risks; inappropriate conduct with customers and suppliers that could compromise the ability to meet strategic objectives. This category comprises: Business organization ; the resistance to change of staff could limit or slow down the business transformation process taking place in the Company; ; the ability to attract and retain key people; ; the development of inadequate organizational structures. 46 47 2.3/Risk management 2.3/Risk management Product and product quality Control model The Group’s inability to identify the tastes of consumers and offer them products that satisfy their needs in terms Delays in the development and roll-out of the new Control Model in the subsidaries of the Group could result in the of quality, considering the characteristics of the fabrics and materials used as well as their comfort. inconsistency and/or unavailability of data to support decision-making processes. Time to market External risks An overly long time to market may prevent the Company from quickly following market trends with subsequent loss These risks concern the effects of external events that may impact negatively on the Group’s activities. This category of sales opportunities. comprises: Business interruption of the logistics platform Social and political instability of some nations Business interruption due to natural disasters at the Castrette logistics platform, which acts as a hub for the majority Delays in the regular delivery of finished goods due to political instability in some of the countries where the of distribution flows. Company’s suppliers are located. Corporate Social Responsibility Climatic variations The inappropriate management of Corporate Social Responsibility issues could cause serious reputational damage. The Group’s business is to some extent sensitive to the weather. For example, an excessively mild winter may lead to lower sales of higher-margin products, with a negative effect on economic results and the financial position of Financial risks the Company. This is the risk category most immediately perceived by businesses, also thanks to the implementation of the International Accounting Standard (IAS) and the requests for additional information in financial reports deriving from national civil law. ISTRIBUTION C Financial risks include risks connected with exchange rates, interest rates, counterparties and liquidity risk. The most T EGY D HA N keenly felt risk is that relative to foreign exchange transactions with reference to FX sales in the event of the strong R A IZ ATION PROD NE ST RGAN UC T LS devaluation of their reference currency and relative to acquisitions in dollars, in the event of the revaluation of this D S O AN N ES D IN COUNTRY currency. BR N A BU PR CHA KS COMPANY P S SI RIS T TEGIC RIS RO Legal/compliance risks CE STR A R AT C UTIVE RIS S N EXEC SK CIAL AN D P O The compliance risk is the risk deriving from the failure to comply with laws, regulations and internal rules. This can LIA SO LIT IC ED FINANCIAL RI LY ES F S A LEGAL /COMP EXTERNAL R result in negative effects connected with fines, penalties, economic losses and, in more serious cases, damage KS UR LINS KS E PP QUALIT Y TIME TO LIT Y OF SO NS TABI to the Company reputation with subsequent losses, requests for compensation, damage to the Company image etc. ISCS AL COM G IS TIO ME Legal/compliance risks include: K PL T YA SU DUC I AN M M TIO AR NS CLI ATIC VA Company procedures RIA NA The possible inadequacy of Company procedures designed to guarantee respect for the main Italian and international N CE K TROL MODEL CO O regulations to which the Group is subject. Also of particular relevance are problems connected with security, antitrust ET and privacy regulations. Y CO T P R E S E N CE R KE Fiscal compliance MA ATE SOCIAL RESPO The Group’s presence on the international panorama means it is exposed to various tax obligations. The evolution ND RPOR NSIBI LIT of related regulations may expose the Group to the risk of default. 48 49 2.4/ Value generated by Benetton To carry out its business activities, Benetton Group transforms a series of tangible and intangible resources purchases), into outputs. The result of transforming resources into outputs is the generation of positive and (capitals), which it accesses directly (through ownership) or indirectly (through trade relations, partnerships, negative outcomes that can create and/or consume value. INPUT BENETTON IN ACTION MAIN RESULTS 2016 OUTCOME SOCIAL AND RELATIONAL CAPITAL SOCIAL AND RELATIONAL CAPITAL (BRAND VALUE) (BRAND VALUE) Forming long-term relationships with the main stakeholders. Around euro 3 million invested on behalf of communities Good Company reputation upheld, in line with Collaborating with the main local and global institutions CONSUMER CENTRICITY >1 million consumers members of the Benetton and Sisley Loyalty Program the values expressed by the brand and organizations (UN, ILO, Accord, etc.). WE Program: launch of the “Safe Birth Even Here” campaign Reflecting its core values through the brand. Placing the end consumer at the center of strategic decisions with the aim of providing, every day: *  a product that combines tradition and quality HUMAN CAPITAL HUMAN CAPITAL with a research for innovative solutions; *  a purchasing experience based on the values long synonymous with the Benetton brand; Focusing the utmost attention on promoting and developing people. Winner of the Positive Sustainability Award 2016 Motivation of our people and development Seeking to maintain and expand the skill set for the creation of quality *  the right tools for dialoguing and interacting 72,684 training hours (+18% vs. 2015) of their skills and innovative clothing. with the company in an increasingly digital world. -9.5% number of injuries between 2014 and 2016 Taking advantage of the experience of business partners for the creation and distribution of high quality and innovative products. MANUFACTURED CAPITAL OUR PEOPLE MANUFACTURED CAPITAL DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION People represent a key asset in the pursuit of the Company’s goals. Benetton invests resources and Distributing products through a widespread network of stores (direct and energy in the development of initiatives aimed at 330 stores refurbished or opened with the On Canvas format Increase in the value of Company assets indirect). Market launch of the TV-31100 sweater INNOVATION Managing all phases of the Company production cycle in an integrated way, creating a working environment in which people can 250 stores converted to FOS in 2016 (in line with the target) from order collection to packaging and delivery to stores. fulfil their personal and professional potential through: * training programs; FINANCIAL CAPITAL * welfare initiatives; FINANCIAL CAPITAL * incentive tools; * programs that support women empowerment. Constantly investing financial resources to expand the Company’s assets. Economic value generated euro 1,489 million Distribution of economic value to stakeholders Total economic value retained euro 28 million of the Group Net operating investments euro 54 million SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS NATURAL CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITAL When carrying out its operating activities Benetton pledges to minimize its impact on the environment and society in general through a series of initiatives Using natural resources (water, energy, raw materials) in a responsible way to involving the entire value chain: Reduction in electricity consumption of direct stores: -2.5% Mitigation of negative environmental impacts carry out the business activities of the Group. Green logistics: -12% CO2 emissions per garment per km *  the selection and assessment of suppliers 2nd place in the “Avant-Garde” category of the Greenpeace Detox rankings according to social and environmental criteria; *  the promotion of respect for the rights of people INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL and workers; INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL *  the development of new solutions to increase the efficiency of production processes. Possessing the organizational skills to design attractive and identifiable 90% of production volumes covered by audits on social impacts Greater process efficiency and control along collections. Publication of data on 70% of the supply chain relating to Wet Processes the supply chain Seeking to improve the effectiveness of the Company processes through Benetton “Control Tower End-to-End Visibility” included in Gartner’s a continued focus on innovation and results. Magic Quadrant 50 51 2.4/Value generated by Benetton 2.4/Value generated by Benetton The most direct outcome generated by the Group is the impact on financial capital in the form of the economic value distributed to stakeholders. Economic value generated and distributed by Benetton in 2016 (thousands of euro) 2015 2016 Economic value generated 1,616,803 1,489,759 Economic value distributed 1,553,300 1,461,274 Operating costs 1,285,082 1,187,932 Value distributed to employees 232,426 224,017 Value distributed to providers of capital 13,347 12,807 Value distributed to government 16,728 33,548 Value distributed to the community 5,717 2,970 Total economic value retained 63,503 28,485 In 2016, the economic value distributed by Benetton Group was euro 1,461 million (-6% vs. 2015) and the economic value generated euro 1,490 million (-8% vs. 2015), while the economic value retained amounted to approximately euro 28 million (-55% vs. 2015). The reduction in the economic value distributed is mainly due to: ; the reduction in sales of the 2016 Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter collections to IOS customers, also following the fall in the number of managed stores, some of which have been transferred to the DOS and FOS channel; ; the increase in sales support provided to partners; ; the increase in e-commerce sales; ; the negative performance of stores under direct management, particularly in Italy, France, Germany, Poland and Turkey; the results of the latter were influenced by the unfavorable political and economic situation in the country; ; the completion of the closures program. (thousands of euro) 13,347 16,728 5,717 1,285,082 232,426 63,503 2015 2016 1,187,932 224,017 28,485 2,970 33,548 Operating costs Value distributed to government 12,807 Value distributed to employees Value distributed to the community Value distributed to providers of capital Economic value retained Despite the external elements that negatively influenced the Group’s economic performance in 2016, the Company accelerated its capital expenditures (+39.2% vs. 2015), strongly driving the renewal of the network (330 stores were opened or redeveloped with the new On Canvas store concept, 211 of which directly managed and with the shop-in-shop format). 52 53 2.5/ Looking to the future After a two-year period focused on the consolidation of a completely transformed business model and the Benetton Group’s three growth strategies repositioning of the two Group’s brands, the Company will continue on the path it has undertaken towards its relaunch and the generation of long-term value. More specifically, with the focus increasingly on the end consumer, EUROPE the cornerstones of this process will be centered on the product and the store, on a more effective management EXTRA Lisbon Berlin EUROPE Barcelona Munich of the time-to-market, on monitoring the sales network, on digital transformation, on the implementation Moscow Seoul Madrid Wien of different development strategies on the basis of the potential of each countries, and on the promotion New Delhi Mexico City Paris Budapest Hong Kong New York London Warsaw of human capital. Tokyo Shanghai Athens ITALY The product and the store will continue to be increasingly connected and distinctive for their innovation, quality Dubai Milan Rome and sustainability, key components of the brand. Offering an experience that is distinctive, unique and clear, and Venice Naples Florence which meets the expectations of the end consumer, will continue to be among the main goals of the Group. These also include reducing “design-to-shelf”, the time between the design of a collection and its actual arrival in stores, with the risk that it is no longer fashionable or that it does not meet the real needs of consumers. All of this will naturally have repercussions on the sourcing strategies of the Company, which will have to: a) intensify its efforts in the selection of quality materials; b) request greater speed in all phases of the production process; c) promote sustainable behavior along the supply chain; d) increasingly shape its relations with strategic suppliers into collaborative relationships in order to drive innovation from the bottom. Benetton Group will seek to expand the network of franchisees and extend the network of direct stores, also developing the indirect network with the support of the agencies and with an ad hoc format. In this way the Group will be able to extend service and format best practices (currently implemented in some direct stores) to all stores on the network, guaranteeing consistency in terms of levels of performance and the management of customer relations. In line with the developments of recent years, both internal operating processes and the customer journey will be affected by the Digital Transformation program organically. The goal of the Company is to manage Customer Relationship processes, e-commerce channels, the relations with indirect sales channels and all internal processes in an integrated way through specially designed digital platform. To this end, a new CRM platform is currently being implemented. EXTRA EUROPE ITALY EUROPE So as not to waste resources and energy, in the next few years Benetton Group will seek to focus on countries Growth Restructure Defend and cities with a higher potential. To this end, three different development strategies have been selected: defend the results achieved in Italy and focus on big cities; restructure European markets; drive the growth process in Of course, these goals cannot be achieved without constant focus on the Company’s most important asset: non-European markets with high growth potential. people. They are the heart and engine of the Company and Benetton Group will continue to dedicate itself to them in the next few years through training, engagement, incentive and development programs, and in line with its objectives. 54 55 3/ Strategic priorities and results 57 3/Strategic priorities and results 3/Strategic priorities and results ICONS ICONS 48 ICONS ICONS 48 SDG LOGO FOR NON-UN ENTITIES LOGO 31 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION HORIZONTAL LOGO In September 2015 the United Nations approved the 2030 Agenda for NOSustainable Development Sustainable Development Goals (SDGS). The implementation of this agenda USAGE LOGO: COLOUR VERSION POVERTYrequires nations, ZERO HUNGER and its 17 GOOD HEALTH production sectors, AND WELL-BEING 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY SDGCLEAN Gender 5 –WATER Gender equality equality is a necessary step for creating a peaceful, prosperous and more sustainable AND SANITATION businesses, financial institutions, NGOs and civil society to redirect their programs and plans towards these goals. ICONS worldGOOD everyone. For this 48forHEALTH reason BenettonGENDER Group has launched theWATER Women Empowerment ICONS NO ZERO QUALITY CLEAN POVERTY HUNGER Program, a long-term sustainability AND WELL-BEING EQUALITY to support AND EDUCATION program designed emancipation and theSANITATION ICONS ICONS ICONS 48 legitimization of women around the world. ICONS 48 AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION SDG AND 8 –PRODUCTION Decent work REDUCED and economic growth AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH Meeting higher economicINEQUALITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE productivity standards through diversification, AND COMMUNITIES technological process CONSUMPTION 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION and innovation. Promoting development policies that support production AND PRODUCTION activities, the creation NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION of dignified jobs, creativity and innovation. Promoting a healthy and safe working environment ICONS NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER NO for allZEROworkers, also at the48 ICONS GOOD HEALTH These are suppliers. QUALITY GENDER the management all goals that characterize of CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATIONCLIMATE EQUALITY LIFE LIFE AND SANITATION PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY Benetton Group’s business activities, to which the Company is constantly committed to from AND SANITATION ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS the front line. CLIMATE LIFE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE SDG 12 – ResponsibleINSTITUTIONS consumption and production CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION Benetton Group leads the way in the global commitment to the elimination of the use of 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION AND PRODUCTION dangerous chemical throughout the textile sector by 2020. The Company also implements AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION CLEAN ENERGY policiesECONOMIC for GROWTH the sustainableAND INFRASTRUCTURE management and the INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES efficient use of resources and energy,CONSUMPTION as well When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. AND PRODUCTION The COLOUR VERSION of the Sustainable Development Goals ANDGREY LIGHT PRODUCTION logo is ONLY to be used on a white or light grey background. NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER as forCLEAN reduction of waste production also through recycling and reuse, where possible. theWATER See colour values to the right. The white icon should POVERTYbe contained by its defined HUNGER colour, or black PMS: Cool Gray 1C AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION background. R 241 G 241 B 241 When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. SDG LOGO LOGO 27 FOR NON-UN ENTITIES C4M3Y3K0 LIFE of the SDG icons. LIFE CLIMATE Do not alter the colours VERTICAL LOGO PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black ACTION BELOW WATER USAGE LOGO: COLOUR VERSION ON LAND AND STRONG background. FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS SDG LIFE 13 – Climate action CLIMATE LIFE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. CLIMATE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS ACTION Benetton BELOWGroup WATER has a long tradition of focusing ON LAND on the environment. AND STRONG FOR THEThe GOALSCompany’s INSTITUTIONS INSTITUTIONS AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES contribution RESPONSIBLEto combating climate change takes form through the implementation of initiatives to CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES reduce CONSUMPTION energy consumption and climate-altering gas emissions, as well as through the reduction AND PRODUCTION of the environmental impact connected with its logistics activities and the distribution of its When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. products. The COLOUR VERSION of the Sustainable Development LIGHT GREY Goals logo is ONLY to be used on a white or light grey PMS: Cool Gray 1C background. See colour values to the right. R 241 G 241 B 241 The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black C4M3Y3K0 Benetton When an icon Group is on a square, has decided that square to contribute must be proportional 1 x 1. to achieving these goals. In setting out its charter background. of commitments for When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. the coming years, the Group has chosen The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or Do black to associate its actions with the SDGs closest to itsLIFEcore businesses and not alter the colours of the SDG icons. CLIMATE LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS The white icon should SDG 17 – Partnerships for the goals be contained by its defined colour, or black background.strategic action areas. ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND AND STRONG background. FOR THE GOALS A successful Sustainable Development Agenda requires partnerships built upon principles and INSTITUTIONS Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. values, Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. a shared vision, and shared goals that put people and the planet at the center. Benetton Group also works towards this goal, developing partnerships that can contribute to the achievement of the sustainable development goals. When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black background. Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. 58 59 3/Strategic priorities and results 3/Strategic priorities and results Our initiatives CONSUMER CENTRICITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS OPERATIONS Fully Fully Scheduled Started In progress implemented Capital Scheduled Started In progress implemented Capital Innovation Management of social impacts Mineral Dye ¢ ● ● Benetton WE Program “Sustainable Livelihood” ¢ ● Expansion of new UCB and Sisley Store concepts ¢ ● Accord on Fire and Building Safety ¢ ● Implementation of new digital platform ¢ ● CSR Audit Program ¢ ● Extension of the CSR Audit Program to Benetton Korea Inc. ¢ ● Commitment and transparency Product safety tests ¢ ● Management of environmental impacts Dress Safely project ¢ ● PEOPLE Reducing Store and HQ CO 2 emissions ¢ ● Reducing energy consumption ¢ ● OUR PEOPLE Improving Data Center energy efficiency ¢ ● Fully Waste management ¢ ● Scheduled Started In progress implemented Capital Reduction logistics CO 2 emissions ¢ ● People strategy Saturation of transportation vehicles ¢ ● Stretch your time ¢ ● Reduction of packaging ¢ ● Stretch your space ¢ ● Use of Green Energy ¢ ● Welcome back, Mom! ¢ ● Participation in Detox Program ¢ ● “Benetton for You” health insurance plan ¢ ● Baby Welcome Gift ¢ ● Sustainability of raw materials Training program for children of employees ¢ ● Ban on fur ¢ ● Participation in RDS – Responsible Down Standard ¢ ● Training and professional growth Use of organic cotton ¢ ● Training programs for HQ employees ¢ ● Participation in BCI – Better Cotton Initiative ¢ ● Performing Up ¢ ● OUR PEOPLE Training program for store employees ¢ ● Natural = ● Retail Growing UP ¢ ● Intellectual = ● Retail Performing UP ¢ ● Manufactured = ● In Store UP ¢ ● Human = ● Social = ● Rewarding and engagement Financial = ● Incentive plan ¢ ● Restyling of the Company intranet ¢ ● KNIT Internal newsletter ¢ ● Zero Injuries target Zero Injuries target program ¢ ● Respect for human rights India POSH: Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace ¢ ● 60 61 3.1/ 3.1.1/ R Consumer centricity CLEAN WATER Innovation ITY AND SANITATION NABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE Product and store innovation is a key element in Benetton Group’s strategy. MMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION Product innovation Product innovation is an important part of Benetton Group’s mission: in fact, one of the Company’s main goals is the combination of quality and tradition, since ever key elements of Benetton products, along with the ongoing pursuit of economic, social and environmental sustainability. NERSHIPS For some years, Benetton Group’s business model has evolved with the aim of placing the consumer at the center of This explains the Company’s long-held commitment to experimenting in close collaboration with its suppliers with HE GOALS innovative new processing techniques. Evidence of it are the projects launched by the Group in 2016 and, namely, the Company’s strategies and evaluations. This evolution saw the achievement of an important first goal in 2016 with Benetton and Sisley Loyalty Programs TV-31100 and Mineral Dye. reaching over a million members, a result attained thanks to the involvement in the project of over 500 retail and franchise stores in six countries (Italy, France, Germany, Poland, Spain, Switzerland). TV-31100 The goal for the next few years is to leverage on this first significant result to develop an increasingly long-lasting The TV-31100 sweater is the result of an advanced relationship with consumers that is able to generate value in the midto long-term. development area created at the Castrette site: an The first step in this direction will be the more effective monitoring of the “Customer Journey” in the context of a innovation based project in line with the brand’s legacy. more complete integration between the online and offline world; these results will be pursued through the synergic There is much of the brand’s original identity in this management of the main touchpoints through which consumers come into contact with the Company and the project: manufacturing tradition, color, high quality integration of information and data available in a single customer database. and above all the “made in Italy” seal: these items are The analysis of consumer behavior and preferences will guarantee Benetton Group notable benefits: closer control of produced at the Castrette di Villorba site in a specifically its direct sales network through the use of sell-out data to monitor consumer loyalty and habits; support for planning dedicated division. actions in the Digital area (from the acquisition of data to listening/clustering actions and through to communications); Back to origins with a modern twist thanks also to the the strengthening of consumer tracking in order to measure Brand Equity. seamless technology that ensures total comfort, avoiding To this end, as part of the Company’s Digital Transformation process, 2017 will see the completion of an ambitious any friction between the sweater and the skin. project involving the Consumer Insight, Digital and IT Departments aimed at the implementation of a new CRM Environmental sustainability is guaranteed by Whole Garment Technology to avoid wool wastage. This is a true platform. example of innovation, resulting in a perfect sweater for men and women, characterized by quality yarns and a clean and versatile color palette. Market research Mineral Dye In order to validate the Company’s main strategic choices and relative action levers, every year Benetton Group carries out numerous market research projects, through a consolidated database of around 1.2 million European Color and environmental sustainability are key elements contacts for surveys and direct interviews. The main goal is understanding the market logic that governs the choices for Benetton. This was the starting point for the launch of consumers and identifying action areas on which to concentrate Company resources in order to influence the of a project to use natural alternative dyes for the consumer’s willingness to pay. As such, in recent years research and surveys have been carried out to support some garments. The FW 2016 collection features T-shirts of the main product design choices made by Benetton Group, such as the use of organic cotton, the adoption of produced exclusively with plant dyes. The project also synthetic fibers and the membership of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). included the use of minerals and different types of soil in the dyeing process. The range of colors varies according to the element used: from bright mineral tones to the warmer and more pastel earth hues. The possibility of drawing on the natural world represents an important alternative to man-made dyes. For this reason Benetton Group invests in research and development to design tools that guarantee garment safety and quality. 62 63 3.1.1/Innovation 3.1.1/Innovation Innovation via design Digital and media management In 2016, Benetton Group invested in the development of a digital platform, which will come into use in the next United Colors of Benetton by Stella Jean operating period and which will make it possible to manage the e-commerce channel and customer relations in a In December 2016 Benetton Group launched its first synergic manner. Thanks to this investment, the Company will therefore be able to identify trends and end consumer collection in collaboration with an external designer, Stella preferences faster, enabling it to customize and channel its product range more effectively. Jean, recognized as one of the most innovative figures on the world fashion scene. The Italian-Haitian designer The launch of the new benetton.com website in July 2016 represented an important development in support of the reinterpreted two of the Group’s most distinctive strategy to reinforce the positioning of the United Colors of Benetton brand: in fact, with a design compatible with elements, knitwear and color, contaminating them with the tablets and smartphones, the new website is able to both fulfill business development requirements and communicate traditional textiles of the southern hemisphere. the brand’s values. The capsule collection, dedicated to women, comprises knitted coats, pullovers, dresses and skirts with ethno-folk decorations made entirely from fine yarns and complete The benefits of this launch are supplemented by those deriving from the implementation during the year of an organic with accessories created in collaboration with a community of Haitian and Ethiopian artisans. strategy to use the digital channels from the social networks and newsletters to online advertising and the planning of The line is distinctive for the decorations that embellish all of the garments, inspired by the Navajo style and in multimedia content together in a targeted and effective marketing campaign. particular the culture of the Yeii, the spirits that for Native Americans symbolize benevolence and protection for The goal for 2017 is the strengthening of the integration of the digital channel with the logistics platform in terms of those that wear them. both technology and traditional distribution. The philosophy of the collection and the meeting point between Benetton Group and Stella Jean is that of social and cultural crossover and the restoration of the manufacturing traditions of countries in the southern hemisphere, with Online sales whose communities the designer has worked for many years. As regards the online sales channel, the benetton.com e-commerce site is currently active in 27 markets and in 2016 generated revenues of euro 12.5 million, with an increase of around 50%, significantly higher than the market growth Store concept figure of approximately +15-20%. This was achieved thanks to the focused management of the channel and a closer The same dedication to product innovation is applied to the creation of the store format, where the main goal is the collaboration with the external partner that is completely responsible for managing it in outsourcing. development of cutting-edge and sustainable solutions that are consistent with the collections and brand identity. Case history: Restoration of historic building Trevi Fountain In 2016 Benetton Group redeveloped a store inside a historic building close to the Trevi Fountain, in the square of the same name in Rome. Classified as a monument, the property is part of a 4-floor 16th century building opposite the Fountain. In accordance with the Architectural and Landscape Heritage Office, Benetton Group restored the internal walls and vaults and prioritized materials in keeping with the origins and history of the building. The remains of the medieval arcade on the ground floor and a column discovered in the basement were also restored. The On Canvas concept, with its light load-bearing metal structures, makes it possible to further emphasize the building’s history. 64 65 3.1.2/ Commitment and transparency Product safety The purpose is to consolidate its relationship with consumers, through information on product safety, in the belief that transparency is one of its defining core values. Benetton Group believes that highest product quality can only be achieved if said products are “sustainable”, i.e. safe and manufactured in ethical contexts with respect for the environment. Water Product One of the Group’s main priorities is therefore that of offering its customers increasingly safe products. This pledge inspires workers on a daily basis and involves encouraging and monitoring, in all products, the respect for the most stringent international product safety standards, through the application of specific procedures for controlling raw materials and garments aimed at ensuring their complete compliance with applicable standards. To this end, Benetton Group performs strict controls on its entire value chain from the design of its garments and the procurement of raw materials to low environmental impact in the production and distribution processes and to transparent communications and continuously updates the Company processes, in order to guarantee their complete alignment through the most accredited third-party institutions. Specific internal tools have been adopted to define the product features required to ensure respect for the strict obligations the Company has voluntarily set itself through the “Dress Safely” project. In addition, Benetton Group has committed to the Detox program promoted by Greenpeace, underlining the Company’s commitment to eliminating 2015 40,773 test reports even the potential risk of using harmful chemical substances in the supply chain (for more details see the “Sustainable Business Operations” chapter). “Dress Safely” project Benetton Group launched the “Dress Safely” project in 2012 as a commitment to providing transparent information to those who choose its products, starting with those consumers that require the greatest protection: children. A special tag, applied to articles in the children’s product lines (United Colors of Benetton, Sisley Young and Undercolors of Benetton), About 15,000 and since 2015 also to the adult line of Undercolors of Benetton, guarantees the application substances tested of high chemical and mechanical safety standards, as verified in recent years by the UL Group, each year an important and recognized independent body that certifies the safety of consumer goods. 2016 41,115 test reports 66 67 3.1.2/Commitment and transparency 3.1.2/Commitment and transparency Responsible communications 2015 Over the years, Benetton Group has stood out for taking up social issues, for its partnerships with organizations actively engaged in solidarity and for its support for causes that otherwise could not have been communicated on a ONE WOMAN FOR ALL. ALL WOMEN FOR ONE. global scale. This has given meaning and value to the Benetton brand, helping to build a serious and ongoing dialogue The United Colors of Benetton global communication campaign with different players throughout the world. Since 2011, with the launch of the Unhate Foundation, the Group has to celebrate the UN International Day for the Elimination sought to consolidate and strengthen its social commitment through a body dedicated to the spread and promotion of Violence against Women is focused on equal opportunities of the values that make up the DNA of Benetton Group. and non-discrimination. Since the campaigns of the 1980s, Benetton Group’s communication has evolved along a definite and coherent path: from stances on social issues to active collaboration with organizations committed to solidarity. A history of social commitment: 2016 2014 SAVE BIRTH EVEN HERE. Conceived and developed by Fabrica, this campaign seeks to raise I BELONG. awareness on the issue of the health of women and girls during This campaign, developed by Fabrica for United Colors of Benetton, pregnancy and childbirth in emergency situations. Three artistic images supports the UNHCR program to end statelessness by 2024. Through and a film reinterpret the issue of childbirth in an emergency context; the creativity, images and communication tools it has developed, the campaign material will also become an installation. Benetton Group helped engaging public opinion and it assisted UNHCR in achieving its goal of 10 million supporters in ten years. 2016 UNITED TO END VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN. The campaign by Fabrica to support the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. 2014 END VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN NOW! The United Colors of Benetton global communication campaign for the UN International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Behind the power and effectiveness of every campaign developed by the Group there is Fabrica, Benetton Group’s communications center, which through innovative and unconventional activities that exploit multiple forms of expression photography, cinema, design, music, publishing products, internet has contributed to the success of every single initiative and the growth and spread of the brand. 2015 A COLLECTION OF US. The global campaign accompanying the new collection of United Colors of Benetton is a unique blend of knitwear and social commitment. The five female protagonists want to promote a message of female empowerment, a focal point of the Company’s sustainability strategy. 68 69 3.1.2/Commitment and transparency 3.1.2/Commitment and transparency Fabrica designed to achieve important objectives for women, based on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations for 2030. Born in 1994 from an idea by Luciano Benetton, Fabrica is a communication research center that offers a one-year scholarship to a highly diverse and international group Fabrica regularly hosts international-level events such as the Italia Innovation Program of researchers under 25 years. The range of disciplines comprises design, graphics, of Innovation Foundries: in June and July 2016 some of the most iconic Italian brands, interaction, photography, music and video. The variety of cultures, experiences including Ermenegildo Zegna, Illy Caffè, Palazzo Grassi and Punta della Dogana, Thun, and approaches makes Fabrica a unique center on the international scene. Distillerie Nardini and Santa Margherita Wine Group, met with students from the According to the principle of learning by doing, Fabrica offers the opportunity to world’s leading universities who received mentoring from business leaders, professors develop personal projects or projects commissioned by external organizations and www.fabrica.it and international journalists. Additional events were hosted on behalf of companies like companies, employing the most advanced technology tool. The researchers’ daily work Mediolanum, Google, the Italian Department of is supervised by a team of tutors who use innovative and engaging methods to stimulate Education, ADI. and encourage them to develop their projects. Fabrica is a Higher Education Training Body recognized by Italy and the Region of Veneto, and is therefore qualified Three areas of activity: Design, Editorial and Social Campaigns. to provide training to students with high-school and/ or university qualifications through courses funded by Design works on projects such as exhibitions, collections of objects, installations, apps the European Social Fund (ESF). In the last four years and websites for important clients like Airbnb, Daikin, Veuve Clicquot, Art Basel, Expo Fabrica has held over 2,500 hours of courses with an Milan, Ace Hotel and Tate Britain, for which Recognition was designed, an artificial employment rate of 90%. intelligence project and winner In the area of training, Fabrica organizes workshops and conferences, open to external participants, where the worlds of the 2016 IK Prize that of art, culture and research come together to develop new ideas. In 2016 Fabrica hosted: Fabrizio L’Abbate and compares current Reuters Marco Trovatello of the ESA (European Space Agency); Massimo Banzi, co-founder of the Arduino project; Sergio photojournalism with British Pappalettera, artist, and Saturnino, bass guitarist, collaborators of Lorenzo Jovanotti; John Holmstrom, illustrator, art in the Tate collection, writer and founder of Punk Magazine; Aric Chen, design and architecture curator at M+ Museum, Hong Kong; Dan which attracted the attention Matutina, graphic designer and illustrator, Philippines; Nike Italy, executive education workshop; Willem De Kooning of the prestigious New York Academy Rotterdam, workshop; Alex Lobos, Associate Professor at Rochester Institute of Technology, USA; Cathleen Times. Ashworth, Professor at the School of Film and Animation, Rochester Institute of Technology, USA; Christine Editorial investigates social Heusner, Senior Lecturer at the College of Imaging Arts and Sciences, Rochester and cultural changes through reportage, photographic projects, narrative works and videos, and also produces Institute of Technology, USA; Mandy Magyar, Assistant Professor of Industrial Design, documentaries like “La Gente Resta” by Maria Tilli, winner Rochester Institute of Technology, USA; Amy Larkin, producer, activist and author, of the Special Jury Award at the 2015 Turin Film Festival. USA; Marion Hislen, curator and director of Circulation(s) Festival, France; Nikola Editorial also oversees the production, communication and Tosic, founder of BEMapps.com; Simone de Dreuille, architect, France; Amanda Sans, organization of Imago Mundi Luciano Benetton Collection, director, screenwriter, journalist and producer, Spain. the collection of 10x12 cm canvases intended as a catalogue of contemporary art. The collection now comprises works The first Reunion in the 22-year history of the research center took place in June by over 20,000 artists from 120 countries. 2016. Over 300 creatives from 40 countries took up this opportunity with enthusiasm Social Campaigns aims to reinvent the contemporary communication campaign by and affection, special guests including Alejandro Aravena (Pritzker Prize Laureate 2016 focusing on various socially important issues. From violence against women with and Director of the Biennale of Architecture) and Erik Kessels (artist, curator and “Facing”, an art installation in collaboration with SmileAgain fvg, to “Too Young to Drink”, founder of the Kesselskramer communications agency). a campaign to raise awareness about fetal damage caused by alcohol consumption during pregnancy. 2016 concluded with MERRY FABRICA Pop up Christmas market, a day of The team regularly contributes with creative multimedia content to Benetton Group’s shopping, conferences, live music and street food organized in collaboration with internal sustainability project and to Benetton Women Empowerment Program, a longPaw Chew Go and Treviso Comic Book Festival and which brought over 3,000 people term program through which the Group supports a series of concrete initiatives to Fabrica. 70 71 ICONS 3.2/ 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION 3.2.1/ Our People Our numbers ICONS 48 NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION Y GENDER CLEAN WATER As of December 31, 2016, Benetton Group had a workforce of 7,275 employees at global level, 71% of whom are AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE TION EQUALITY CLEAN ENERGY AND SANITATION ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION women. AND PRODUCTION In Italy Benetton Group and its subsidiaries employ 2,578 workers (around 35% of the Group’s direct workforce), 69% of whom are women. The other European workforce comprises 2,203 units (92% of whom women), amounting to 30% of the overall Benetton Group headcount. ED CLIMATE CITIES of human The management SUSTAINABLE capital represents the LIFE RESPONSIBLE in supporting LIFE biggest challenge PEACE, JUSTICE all thePARTNERSHIPS changes introduced with The remaining 34% of employees, 2,494 workers in total, is distributed at international level in the extra European ALITIES ANDACTION COMMUNITIES the new business model and BELOW WATER CONSUMPTION ON LAND AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS In fact, there is no Business Strategy that isn’t implementing the Company’s strategies.INSTITUTIONS countries in which the Group’s subsidiaries are based. Women make up 56% of the workforce. AND PRODUCTION adequately supported by a People Strategy. To this end, in 2016 Benetton Group focused its attention on the following actions areas: Employees by Geographical Area – 2016 EUROPE ; the evolution and internationalization of the Company’s organization (cf. Main strategies pursued by the Group); MEN 199 WOMEN 2,004 ; People Care; TOTAL 2,203 , JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS ; training and professional growth; TRONGWhen an icon is on FORaTHE GOALS that square must be proportional 1 x 1. square, ITALY UTIONS ; the launch of a structured process to evaluate performance and potential; MEN 799 WOMEN 1,779 The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black ; the development of new reward strategies; background. TOTAL 2,578 ; engagement and internal communications. Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. All initiatives involving human capital management, designed to foster the development of the business strategy, are inevitably inspired by social sustainability principles, such as the guarantee of equal opportunities and the respect for EXTRA EUROPE workers’ rights, that have always permeated Benetton Group. MEN WOMEN 1,107 1,387 TOTAL 2,494 In the last three years there has been a slight reduction in the size of the Group’s workforce at global level (-5%). More specifically, between 2014 and 2016 there was a small increase in the number of employees in Italy as a result of the reduction in staff at the head office and the increase in personnel in the direct sales network (+2% between 2014 and 2016). In the same period there was an average increase of 5% in the companies of the Group that operate outside of Europe, with increases of over 30% in the companies operating in India, Russia and Mexico, again as a result of an increase in staff numbers in direct points of sale. At the same time there was a fall in the number of staff employed in the companies located in Europe (-20%) and Japan. Geographical area 2014 2015 2016 Italy 2,546 2,628 2,578 Europe 2,740 2,663 2,203 Extra Europe 2,364 2,427 2,494 Total 7,650 7,718 7,275 72 73 3.2.1/Our numbers 3.2.1/Our numbers Benetton Group’s people by type of contract Women Men Women Men PERMANENT EXECUTIVE / TOP MANAGEMENT 2014 69.1% 30.9% 5,975 2014 44% / 56% 3% FIXED-TERM MANAGER 82.2% 17.8% 1,442 52% / 48% 10% OTHER EMPLOYEE 90.1% / 9.9% 233 75% 25% 86% OTHER PERMANENT 72% / 28% 1% 2015 68.5% 31.5% 6,080 FIXED-TERM EXECUTIVE / TOP MANAGEMENT 84.7% 15.3% 1,476 48% / 52% 2% 2015 OTHER MANAGER 89.5% / 10.5% 162 51% / 49% 10% EMPLOYEE PERMANENT 75% 25% 87% 2016 66.8% 33.2% 5,542 OTHER FIXED-TERM 61% / 39% 1% 83.3% 16.7% 1,533 OTHER EXECUTIVE / TOP MANAGEMENT 94.5% / 5.5% 200 2016 45% / 55% 3% MANAGER FULL-TIME 49% / 51% 9% 2014 65.3% 34.7% 5,350 EMPLOYEE PART-TIME 74% 26% 87% 88.4% 11.6% 2,297 OTHER OTHER* 66% / 34% 1% 66.6% / 33.4% 3 FULL-TIME 65.0% 35.0% 5,214 In 2016, 66% of Benetton Group’s employees were covered by collective labor agreements. 2015 PART-TIME 86.7% 13.3% 2,502 OTHER* 50.0% / 50.0% 2 FULL-TIME 2016 63.2% 36.8% 4,812 PART-TIME 86.4% 13.6% 2,460 OTHER* 33.4% / 66.3% 3 * The category “Other” refers to the Company Benetton Russia O.O.O. 74 75 3.2.2/ Benetton Group People Strategy Benetton Group believes that people are the key to relaunching the Group and improving its competitiveness. For this reason it has defined a series of measures and initiatives aimed at the engagement of employees and their Work-life balance The “Stretch” project seeks to manage human capital in an innovative way and it is structured into two streams: involvement in organizational processes. “Stretch your time” and “Stretch your space”. In 2016 the Group’s efforts on behalf of its employees were rewarded with the “Stretch your time” is a project that seeks to bring greater flexibility to Benetton “Positive Sustainability Award 2016” in the Group in terms of the management of working hours. Since October 2016 this phase has category Sustainability – Social. The award involved over 1,000 employees and middle managers at Company sites. is created and organized by Scuola di Palo Alto (the leading non-academic Italian Business School as well as Italy’s prime mover in the area of Positive Education), in partnership with Carter & Benson and “Stretch your space” introduces the possibility of flexible remote working, of up to one NTP Italia (Alta Sartoria Italiana, Made in day a week, for those persons in the Departments involved and with a role compatible with Quality). the project. The pilot phase involved a population of around 140 employees working in four different People Care – “Benetton for You” Company departments (Information Technology, Sisley brand, Human Resources and The Company’s welfare system “Benetton for You” the Industrial Relations) and was launched in November 2016, initially for a six month piriod. key project in the Group People Care initiative launched Today the participation level is over 80%. in 2015 was consolidated in 2016 with new projects in the different action areas work-life balance, health, To help female employees with children to manage their working hours the “Welcome back, Mom!” project has family and free time and with a web platform available continued. Launched in 2015, this initiative is designed to help women returning from maternity leave to (re)establish in the Company intranet, which enables all employees to participate in the various initiatives also remotely. Over a work-life balance thanks to individual and group meetings, broached with the right level of light-heartedness and irony, 1,400 employees from the Italian HQ have taken advantage of the projects focused on personal wellbeing projects with the support of a specialist coach, also a mother and professional. developed in line with the People Strategy which increasingly looks to strengthen relationships with people, placing A key indicator for measuring the effectiveness of this initiative is the rate of retention following maternity leave, i.e. the them at the center of the underlying strategy. percentage of female employees that return to work after leave and are still with the Company one year later. In 2016 this indicator came to 83% in Italy but was lower in the other European (56%) and non-European countries (41.5%). 76 77 3.2.2/Benetton Group People Strategy 3.2.2/Benetton Group People Strategy Return from parental leave 2016 and six years of age, and continues with the “English for You” program, with English language courses provided at subsidized rates at a partner Extra Benetton language center, which offers programs diversified according to age and Type Unit Italy Europe Europe Group level of proficiency. Finally, there is the “Nice to meet you!” initiative Employees entitled to maternity leave no. 76 156 54 286 Employees entitled to paternity leave no. 2 2 11 15 which provides career guidance for recent graduates or final-year degree Total no. 78 158 65 301 students, giving them the chance to become familiar with the working Employees that took parental leave world, the Company structure and its various departments, and offering Employees that took maternity leave no. 76 156 53 285 them useful advice for job interviews, thanks to the support of the Employees that took paternity leave no. 2 2 11 15 Total no. 78 158 64 300 dedicated area in the Human Resources Department. The 2016 edition Return to work after the end of parental leave involved around 25 men and women of between 21 and 25 years old who had the opportunity to experience life in the Female employees that returned to work after maternity leave no. 65 90 26 181 Company for an entire day. Male employees that returned to work after paternity leave no. 2 2 11 15 In line with the projects focused on the education of children, the “Educate children to happiness” workshop was Total no. 67 92 37 196 Return to work rate after maternity leave % 85.5% 57.7% 49.1% 63.5% organized for the entire Company. The experts of Scuola di Palo Alto, to which the course was entrusted, presented Return to work rate after paternity leave % 100% 100% 100% 100% the principles of the discipline known as Positive Education, a model that develops children’s learning capacities Return to work rate after parental leave % 85.9% 58.2% 57.8% 65.3% beginning with positive emotions. Over 400 employees attended the event. Retention rate employees that returned to work rate after parental leave and were still working after 12 month Female employees still employed 12 months Ponzano Children after maternity leave no. 63 88 22 173 Ponzano Children Center is an early childhood center that comprises Male employees still employed 12 months a nursery school for children aged one to six and a crèche for babies after paternity leave no. 2 2 10 14 Total n. 65 90 32 187 of nine to 12 months, with a total capacity of about 100 places Retention rate maternity leave % 82.9% 56.4% 41.5% 60.7% reserved for the children of the residents of Ponzano Veneto and Retention rate paternity leave % 100% 100% 90.9% 93.3% Benetton employees. Retention rate % 83.3% 57.0% 50.0% 62.3% Surrounded by woods, an orchard and a vineyard, Ponzano Children Paternity leave is not granted to Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. employees. is a cutting-edge facility both for its architectural design (the work of internationally renowned architect Alberto Campo Baeza) and its ITALY 82.9% educational and pedagogical philosophy: the “Reggio Children Approach”, according to which the environment is not conceived as a rigidly structured space but rather as a living EUROPE 56.4% place-organism where several different dimensions can live side by side. An environment that takes its shape and identity from the relationships that are built within it; a space that is an active partner, a metaphor for knowledge, EXTRA EUROPE 41.5% a research project for children. BENETTON GROUP AVERAGE 60.7% 2014 2015 2016 Children of employees enrolled in Ponzano Children 65 62 56 Health Health was the first area affected by the “Benetton for You” program with a health plan introduced in collaboration Free time with the trade unions in July 2015. Benetton continues to support activities designed for the free time of its employees and their families through over 80 The plan involves around 1,400 Benetton Group S.r.l. and Fabrica S.p.A. employees, around 20% of whom have agreements with local and domestic partners which make their services and products available at subsidized prices. One extended coverage to their families for a total of over 500 families covered. important partnership, in the area of sports and recreation, is the one with “La Ghirada” sports center in Treviso, which organizes summer campuses during school holidays for children and sports activities (competitive and non-competitive) Family that are accessible to all employees and their families. This section includes all of the initiatives dedicated to children of employees and their education, from pre-school age through to university; these projects include “Baby Welcome Gift”, a kit given to all of the children of employees (including those that work in the stores) within the first few months of their lives. Educational support begins right away with the Ponzano Children Center targeted at children of between nine months 78 79 3.2.3/ Training and professional growth As for personnel training and professional development projects, Training provided Unit 2015 2016 these can be distinguished between those at Corporate level and those Women Men Women Men for store staff: Italy ;  At Corporate level, Benetton Group offers a catalogue divided Total training provided Hours 18,101 16,659 into six macro areas: Leadership and Management, Soft Skills, Training per employee Hours/employee 7 7 Linguistical, Compliance, Technical, Induction. of which training provided to: Hours/employee 6 8 5 9 Following a complete mapping of language skills at head office, Europe efforts continued to improve employees’ knowledge of the English Total training provided Hours 32,135 37,956 language through individual and group courses and courses for specific technical language. The 2016 portfolio saw Training per employee Hours/employee 14 17 the consolidation of the PMP (Project Management Program) and CSP (Communication Skills Program) courses, of which training provided to: Hours/employee 15 8 19 12 in collaboration with Rome’s Luiss Business School. A training course to support the introduction of the new Performance Management – PUL (Performing UP Lab) process was also put together and held. In fact, 2016 saw Extra Europe the implementation of the first Company performance assessment and management system (Performing UP) which Total training provided Hours 11,569 18,069 introduced the new Benetton Distinctive Expertise Model, divided into four clusters: Be united, Be focused, Be bold, Training per employee Hours/employee 6 8 Be a coach. Performing UP seeks to align the performance of resources with the Company’s goals and to foster of which training provided to: Hours/employee 8 6 10 8 ongoing dialog between manager and collaborator in all process phases. The program, which has so far involved 400 Total Benetton Group people, will be extended to the store management companies in 2017. Total training provided Hours 61,805 72,684 ;  Store-based training, for both the direct and franchise channels, is organized along two main lines: Training per employee Hours/employee 9 10 * r ole-playing, dedicated to the various store positions, with the I Love District, My Store, My Floor, I will be of which training provided to: Hours/employee 10 7 12 9 a Sales Coach and Who is a Planner? programs, which are joined by another important training initiative dedicated to the Sisley Franchising Partners. Total hours of training by geographic area and by employee category *  themed courses on: People, Product, Sales, Economics and Soft Skills. Of note in this regard is the Product Training Kit dedicated to the in-store collection, produced for both the United Colors of Benetton and the 2015 ITALY 18,101 Sisley brands as a support tool for communicating the values of the products on sale and designed for sales Total hours EUROPE 32,135 assistants in direct stores. An e-book with functions and connected apps is in the pipeline for 2017. 61,805 In addition, the UP strategy the first integrated development and training system dedicated to people selected EXTRA EUROPE 11,596 to embark on growth paths was completed and consolidated also in stores. This system is based on the evaluation of potential through an assessment plan (Retail Growing UP), steps to assess performance (Retail 2016 ITALY 16,659 Performing UP) and role-based training courses (In Store UP). Finally, in 2016 the first Global Training & Development Town Hall was organized, focusing on the training of stores and the launch of the UP Strategy. Total hours EUROPE 37,956 At Group level, Benetton provided a total of 72,684 hours of training in 2016, a yearly average of 10 hours per 72,684 employee. EXTRA EUROPE 18,069 The figures confirm the importance that Benetton Group places on training its resources and highlight how it has consistently expanded its training offer and increased its number of hours of training per employee: between 2015 and 2016 there was an 18% increase in the total number of training hours provided with a consequent increase in the 2015 EXECUTIVE / TOP MANAGEMENT 1,521 “average annual number of hours of training per employee” indicator, which rose from 9 to 10 in the same period. Total hours MANAGER 4,643 While in Europe the number of training hours per employee is already quite high and constantly on the rise, the 61,805 biggest increase has been in non-European countries where there was a substantial increase in the overall amount of EMPLOYEE / WORKER 55,641 training provided in the two-year period (56% increase in the total annual number of hours of training supplied, from 11,569 in 2015 to over 18,000 in 2016). 2016 EXECUTIVE / TOP MANAGEMENT 1,770 Total hours MANAGER 7,891 72,684 EMPLOYEE / WORKER 63,024 80 81 3.2.4/ 3.2.5/ Rewarding and engagement Industrial relations Benetton Group’s remuneration system aims to attract, motivate and retain key resources in order to help the The industrial relations system stands out for the consolidated and constructive dialogue and relationship with the Company achieve its business strategies and ensure that value creation and remuneration are aligned. workers’ unions. The system is structured into fixed and variable remuneration components in order to recognize the contribution As part of this system, in 2016 in Italy, Benetton Group saw the consolidation of the content of the agreement for made by each of the Group’s resources, pursuing the principles of impartiality within the organization and the renewal of the supplementary Company labor contract and the performance-related bonus for the 2015-2017 competitiveness on the market in line with the Company’s results and approved policies. period in Italy. The participative and constructive system of industrial relations, which benefits from an increasingly With this in mind, 2016 saw the formalization of the MBO (“Management by Objectives”) plan aimed at managerial comprehensive flow of information, was reconfirmed. This information regards: roles within the Group, a plan that consolidates the structure defined in 2015, involving 17 countries and over 140 ;  the strategic role of training with a significant increase in the number of hours dedicated to the professional managers, 34% of whom work abroad. growth of employees; The short-term incentive scheme is based on the achievement of specific Company and individual goals closely related ;  the application of the new Code of Conduct for Manufactures and Code of Ethics; to the Group business strategy and identified through a formal process of defining and measuring performances. The ;  the management of some important and high-impact organizational turnaround actions with very positive results; plan also involves respect for a financial trigger condition (EBITDA), which makes the plan operative. ;  protecting the health and safety of resources in the workplace, recording further improvements and closing in on There are also specific incentive schemes for the sales roles in each sales channel, in particular: the “zero injuries” target; ;  the DOS (“Direct Operated Store”) channel, personalized scheme per brand (United Colors of Benetton and ;  the introduction of defibrillators in the main Company sites; Sisley) which “evolves” each year to effectively support the brand strategy for all roles in the channel, both in Italy ;  the consolidation of actions on behalf of all employees and their families through a Company welfare system with and abroad. In 2016 Benetton launched a process to harmonize the incentive schemes relating to the Group particular emphasis on a healthcare plan; stores in all European countries with the aim of adopting a “glo-cal” approach that prioritizes the definition of ;  the reconfirmation of the criteria for determining the efficiency parameter, already used in 2015, to determine “global” guidelines (in terms of roles, main KPI, mechanics and communication process), leaving each country to the 2016 performance-related bonus. manage “local” aspects more closely connected with regulations, practices and policies; With regard to the period of notice given to employees before the implementation of important organizational ;  the FOS (“Franchising Operated Store”) channel for roles performed in Italy, which aims to contribute to the changes, all companies must refer to applicable laws and the national collective labor agreements, where relevant. development of the performances in the channel, recognizing the results obtained; This is not applicable in Poland, Portugal, Russia and Turkey where there are only notice periods for resigning ;  the IOS (“Indirect Operated Store”) channel for roles performed both in Italy and other countries, a scheme employees. currently being fine-tuned. In Italy there are specific notice periods for different contractual levels and on the basis of one’s seniority in the As regards internal communications and the engagement of employees, Benetton company, as per the National Collective Contract applicable for the various eventualities (transfer of company Group intends to provide its workers with greater quantities of information on Company ownership, transfer of workplace, termination of a permanent contract by the employer etc.). business issues and, more specifically, its commercial policies, market and brand trends, Transfers of departments or workplaces and changes to working hours for technical-production reasons, as well as volumes sold, geographical origin of products, capex and innovations. for the better use of workforces and sites, are carried out by the company in accordance with legal and contractual In line with the Company’s transformation and the ongoing relaunch process, 2016 provisions. saw the launch of an internal communication project with the development of various In addition, as established by the Textiles and Fashion Clothing Sector Contract, for production units with more than tools to support employees. The Communications Department, in collaboration with 80 employees the notice is firstly sent to the Unitary Union Representative Body in the case of non-temporary the Engagement & Internal Communication team, further established the Company transfers that affect groups of workers at the site. magazine – KNIT – during the year with the aim of reaching out to all employees in Italy and abroad, as well as employees of Group partner stores, to communicate Benetton’s most significant initiatives on a monthly basis. In support of this initiative, and with the aim of disseminating the content of KNIT throughout the organization, 20 KNIT Points were set up at the HQ to relay the main content of the magazine to employees at Ponzano and Castrette instantly on screen. The restyling of the Company intranet to offer new content and a new interface also began in 2016. 82 83 3.2.6/ “Zero injuries” target Positive results were recorded in terms of safety with no fatal injuries registered in 2016 and a low level of injuries in Injury ratios the workplace. Benetton Group has always sought to guarantee suitable workplaces for its business activities, continuously Injuries Unit 2014 2015 2016 implementing improvements and preventive measures to manage worker health and safety issues. Frequency index No. injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000 22.1 16.2 16.9 All of these elements are guaranteed through the detailed examination of specific national guidelines, in addition to Severity index Working days lost/hours worked x 1,000 0.209 0.167 0.193 current legislation. The injury rate calculation does not include Portugal, Turkey (only for 2014 and 2015) and India as this information is not available. The Prevention and Protection Service in Benetton Group’s companies is responsible for constantly updating the risk assessment and related improvement plan, also with regard to organizational changes. The culture of prevention is spread through targeted training at all levels, awareness-raising activities concerning near misses and dangerous Injuries Unit Italy Total Europe Total Extra Europe Total behavior, and by actively involving employees in safety roles with coordination by the Prevention and Protection 2014 Service. Frequency index No. injuries/hours 8.9 16.0 35.4 22.1 Training is organized not simply for regulatory compliance purposes but as an opportunity for the self-critical worked x 1,000,000 Severity index Working days lost/ correction of bad practices, teaching employees practical prevention measures and how to manage residual risk. More hours worked x 1,000 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.209 specifically, there are training courses on the management of increasingly specific emergencies based on real cases, 2015 and on-the-job training on the risks posed by equipment. Frequency index No. injuries/hours 10.5 15.3 18.3 16.2 Practical exercises have also formed part of training on managing emergencies, allowing participants to identify the right worked x 1,000,000 course of action to take in specific circumstances. Severity index Working days lost/ 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.166 hours worked x 1,000 With regard to the representation of employees on formal joint worker and employer committees for the 2016 management of worker health and safety, the situation is different in the various countries in which the Group’s Frequency index No. injuries/hours companies operate. 10.0 13.8 23.0 16.9 worked x 1,000,000 In Italy 100% of Benetton Group S.r.l. workforce is represented on Health and Safety committees. There are also Severity index Working days lost/ 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.193 special committees in the companies that operate in other European countries: for example, in Germany there is the hours worked x 1,000 “Arbeitsschutzausschuß” made up of internal representatives and an external consultant, while in Spain the Madrid site has a five-member committee made up of representatives of the workers and the management. Regarding the Extra Europe region, three internal committees have been set up at Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. since August 2015: two at site level (the “Health & Safety Committee” and the “Employee Redressal Grievance Committee”, with workers, management and human resources representatives) and “POSH Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee”, which operates at company level and manages sexual harassment claims at site, head office and store level. In Russia, at Kazan Real Estate O.O.O., there is a committee consisting of 35 managers with qualifications in employment, health and safety who oversee the training of employees and represent their interests in these matters. In Korea there are two committees (the “Labor-Management Committee” and “Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee”) made up of representatives of the workers, management, heads of department and human resources. Every subsidiary drafts an annual report on work-related injuries containing statistics and details of any corrective actions. The end result of the annual injury report is an index, disclosed at all levels, which can be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the prevention measures put in place, the goal being “zero work-related injuries”. At Benetton Group level, the number of injuries in 2014-2016 fell by 9.5% from 190 in 2014 to 172 in 2016, as also highlighted by the frequency index (from 22.1 in 2014 to 16.9 in 2016). The severity index also fell in the three-year period, going from 0.209 in 2014 to 0.193 in 2016. 84 85 ICONS ICONS NO POVERTY ZERO HUNGER GOOD HEALTH AND WELL-BEING NO QUALITY EDUCATION POVERTY ZERO GENDER HUNGEREQUALITY CLEAN GOOD HEALTH AND S AND WELL-BEI 3.2.7/ 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION 3.3/ Respect for humanICONS 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION rights Sustainable ICONS 48 NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH NO QUALITY ZEROANDGENDER AFFORDABLE DECENT WORK GOODANDHEALTH INNOVATION CLEAN WATERINDUSTRY,QUALITY REDUCED AFFORDABLE ANDGENDER DECENTSUSTAINABLE WORK ANDCLEAN WATER INDUSTRY,RESP CITIES INNO at Benetton POVERTY HUNGER Business Operations AND WELL-BEING POVERTYEDUCATION CLEAN ENERGY HUNGER EQUALITY GROWTH ECONOMICAND AND INFRASTRUCTURE AND SANITATION WELL-BEING EDUCATION INEQUALITIES CLEAN ENERGY EQUALITY ANDGROWTH ECONOMIC COMMUNITIES CONS AND INFRASTRU AND SANITATION AND P 17 ICONS: COLOUR VERSION Benetton Group is committed to respecting human rights and attainingNOgender equality through ZERO female emancipation, AFFORDABLE ANDGOOD HEALTH DECENT WORK ANDQUALITY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION GENDERAFFORDABLEREDUCED AND CLIMATE CLEANDECENT SUSTAINABLE AND CITIES WATER WORK RESPONSIBLE LIFE REDUCED LIFE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION JUSTICE CITIES CLIMATEPEACE, SUSTAINABLE LIFE PARTNERSHIPS RESPONSIBLE LIFE and plays a frontline role in combating violence against women. To this end, the Company has POVERTY launched HUNGER specific CLEAN ENERGY AND WELL-BEINGECONOMIC GROWTH EDUCATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE CLEAN ENERGY EQUALITY INEQUALITIES ACTION ECONOMICAND AND SANITATION COMMUNITIES GROWTH WATER BELOWAND CONSUMPTIONON LANDINEQUALITIES ACTIONAND STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE AND COMMUNITIESBELOWFOR THE GOALS WATER CONSUMPTION ON LAND AND PRODUCTION INSTITUTIONS AND PRODUCTION projects for female employees of the companies of the Group that work in countries most exposed to these risks. Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. POSH: Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND CLIMATE LIFE INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED LIFE CLIMATE SUSTAINABLE PEACE, JUSTICE RESPONSIBLE CITIES LIFE PARTNERSHIPS LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH ACTION BELOW WATER INEQUALITIES ON LANDFollowing AND INFRASTRUCTURE Whencomplete the ACTION AND COMMUNITIESan ANDicon is onoutsourcing STRONG square, that aCONSUMPTION BELOW ofTHEproduction square FOR WATER LAND 1 x the ONactivities, must be proportional GOALS 1. main social WhenAND STRONG an icon is on environmental and a square, that THE impacts FORsquare GOALS must beof Benetton proportional 1 x 1. INSTITUTIONS AND PRODUCTION Group are primarily concentrated in the supply chain. INSTITUTIONS In India the Government has adopted a law on the sexual harassment of women The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black in the workplace to protect women from such behavior (through prevention, Most of the suppliers used by Benetton to manufacture clothing and background. accessories (about 69%) are located outside background. prohibition and reduction actions). To reinforce its commitment to respecting of Europe:Dothe notmain countries alter the colours of from the SDG icons.it sources its purchases Do which arenotChina, alter theTunisia, Bangladesh, colours of the SDG icons. India, Egypt and the fundamental Indian right to equality and with reference to the UN’s strategic Cambodia. As for Europe, the countries in which sourcing is concentrated are Romania, Croatia, Serbia and Italy. SDG 5 gender equality objective, inCLIMATEMarch 2015 Benetton LIFE India Private Limited LIFE PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS (BIPL) defined a policy on the preventionACTION of sexual When BELOW an icon harassment WATER is on a square, that at workplace ONsquare 1 x 1. When an iconFOR AND STRONG LAND must be proportional THEaGOALS is on square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. INSTITUTIONS 2014 EUROPE 29% (POSH). The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black The white icon should be contained by its defined colour, or black background. background. BIPL pledges to provide a working environment which guarantees: ASIA 50% ; that every female employee is treated with dignity and respect, and has the right toDo not alter equal the colours of the SDG icons. treatment; Do not alter the colours of the SDG icons. ; a climate that fosters the professional growth of its employees and encourages equal opportunities; REST OF THE WORLD 21% ;  protection against the sexual harassment of women in the workplace in order to eliminate sexual When an icon is on a square, that square must be proportional 1 x 1. harassment claims. Any female worker employed full-time or part-time, apprentice, The whiteagent or any icon should other woman be contained that works by its defined for colour, or BIPL, black 2015 EUROPE 29% background. regardless of their salary, can file an informal or formal sexual harassment complaint. In November 2014 a forum was set up for the resolutionDo ofnot alter the colours of the SDG icons. complaints received, the Internal Complaints ASIA 45% Committee, which includes senior employees (50% of whom are women) and a female member of an NGO. REST OF THE WORLD 26% 2016 EUROPE 31% ASIA 44% REST OF THE WORLD 25% 86 87 3.3/Sustainable Business Operations 3.3.1/ Management of social impacts In this context, Benetton’s goal is to constantly encourage its suppliers to adopt best practices in order to respect Protection of human rights The choice of social issues, the partnerships with organizations actively engaged in these areas and the support for the fundamental rights of people and workers, to causes that otherwise would not have found a voice on the global stage have given the United Colors of Benetton guarantee a healthy and safe working environment and to brand a clear connotation, instilling it with strong values and helping to establish an ongoing dialogue with its customers mitigate its environmental impact. around the world. For this reason, starting with the selection and Benetton Group’s commitment has evolved in a clear, consistent direction over the years, going from stances on qualification phase its relationship with suppliers is based social issues in its campaigns of the 1980s, to active collaboration with organizations committed to sustainability. on the principles and criteria of quality, competitiveness In particular, by espousing SDG 5, which aims to achieve gender equality by empowering women and girls and, and transparency, as well as respect for social, ethical as part of its sustainability strategy Benetton Group has strongly supported gender equality, promoting women and environmental principles. In fact, Benetton Group empowerment. On October 22, 2015, it launched the “Benetton Women Empowerment Program” (WE Program), requires that all of its suppliers pledge both directly and a long-term sustainability program which aims to promote and support the rights of women around the world. indirectly, on behalf of their employees, collaborators and authorized subcontractors, to observe the ethical and To achieve this goal, the Group has identified five priorities, in accordance with the UN agenda: behavioral principles of the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers (www.benettongroup.com/sustainability/responsible; sustainable livelihood; supply-chain). ; non-discrimination and equal opportunities; The Code of Conduct for Manufacturers is based on the most relevant international regulations, with particular ; quality education; reference to the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, dated June 2011, and the Renewed EU ; healthcare; Strategy for Corporate Social Responsibility, dated October 2011. These policy documents imply full compliance ; fight against violence. with all applicable laws and regulations relating to fundamental rights at work as contained in the Conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998, with the rules on environmental protection and the right to a healthy and safe environment, and with health and On October 22, 2016, the first WE Program, “Sustainable Livelihood”, was launched, a safety legislation. two-year program of concrete initiatives focused on the emancipation of women that work from home in Pakistan and those employed in the “Ready Made Garments” (RMG) sector in Bangladesh. The project, which will be carried out in the context of the public-private partnerships promoted by the SDGs, will support the activities of UN Women, the United Nations gender equality and female empowerment organization, to improve their conditions and to reduce the vulnerability of female workers employed in the textile industry, both at home and in the workplace. In line with the goals of the WE Program, Benetton Group and the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) announced the joint launch of the “Safe Birth Even Here” campaign at the World Humanitarian Summit in Istanbul on May 23, 2016. The project has a dual goal: firstly, to make sure that the health, safety and dignity of women become humanitarian priorities at global level, and secondly to increase awareness and encourage people to raise funds in support of female health in humanitarian operations all over the world. In November 2016 the United to End Violence Against Women campaign by Fabrica was launched to support the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. 88 89 3.3.1/Management of social impacts 3.3.1/Management of social impacts Responsible management of the supply chain Benetton Group is aware of the impact that the activities of In 2016, 311 suppliers (43%) were audited in terms of their impact on society. Of these, around 80% met the its suppliers and subcontractors may have concerning the necessary requirements. 26 business relationships were terminated following the identification of shortcomings in issue of human rights and health and safety at work. The the implementation of the agreed corrective actions. Company continues to pay closer attention to these issues with the aim of promoting the best working practices within The assessment of social impacts along the supply chain its supply chain. Benetton Group was among the first signatories of GRI 414-2 Negative social impacts along the supply chain and actions undertaken 2014 2015 2016 the “Accord on Fire and Building Safety” in Bangladesh, launched in May 2013 in the aftermath of what is Total number of suppliers 779 619 725 universally remembered as the “Rana Plaza tragedy”. The of which: Suppliers audited for their impact on society 288 299 311 Accord is an independent agreement signed by more than Suppliers identified as having significant real 200 companies from the global apparel industry and also and potential negative impacts on society 103 35 62 involving trade unions, the International Labor Organization (ILO) and various non-governmental organizations. The Suppliers identified as having significant real and potential Accord, which aims to make all garment factories in Bangladesh safe workplaces, also calls for independent safety negative impacts with whom improvement actions to mitigate their impact on society have been agreed on 90 23 40 inspections and for transparency within the Bangladeshi textile supply chain. Percentage of suppliers identified as having The key points of the agreement are: significant real and potential negative impacts ;  an independent inspection program supported by the signatory companies in which workers and trade unions are with whom improvement actions to mitigate involved; their impact on society have been agreed on 87.4% 65.7% 64.5% Suppliers identified as having significant real and potential ; the public disclosure of the list of production sites, inspection reports and corrective action plans; negative impacts with whom relations were terminated following ;  a commitment by signatory brands to guarantee the implementation of the corrective action plans and to maintain an audit of their impact on society 26 22 26 ongoing sourcing relationships; Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant ;  the institution of democratically elected health and safety committees in all factories to identify the principal health real and potential negative impacts with whom relations were terminated following an audit of their impact on society 25.2% 62.9% 41.9% and safety risks to workers; ;  worker empowerment through an extensive training program, the implementation of complaint mechanisms and the The figures relate to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Pvt. Ltd, Benetton Japan Co. Ltd and Benetton Korea Inc. right to refuse unsafe work. With the aim of assessing the compliance of its supply chain activities with its Code of Conduct for Manufacturers, Currently the social audit program involves suppliers of clothing to Benetton Group and Benetton India Pvt. Ltd. Benetton Group regularly carries out audits on its suppliers. Korean suppliers will also soon be involved in the social audit program. In any case, the current supply chain audit These involve: program covers over 90% of production volumes. ; monitoring performance in the area of corporate social responsibility (e.g. forced child labor, workplace safety, etc.); In 2016, 71.9% of new suppliers were audited according to social criteria. This figure, higher than in 2015 and 2016, ; verifying the adequacy of the results achieved against the standards; underlines the Group’s ongoing commitment to monitoring social issues right along its supply chain. ; adopting appropriate corrective actions to eliminate digressions and the risk of recurrence. In addition, in order to ensure respect for the Group’s social and ethical principles, the Company has implemented an audit program to check compliance with the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers, which involves all manufacturers of GRI 414-1 New suppliers assessed using social criteria 2014 2015 2016 finished garments with particular attention on those located in areas where respect for human rights and workers is Total number of new suppliers 35 75 64 considered more at risk. of which: CSR Management and Operations jointly decide which suppliers to audit, while the operational organization of the New suppliers audited for their impact on society 18 47 46 Percentage of new suppliers audited audit is delegated to the CSR Management department. The audits are performed by internationally recognized for their impact on society 51.4% 62.7% 71.9% external audit firms and are performed on the basis of a checklist developed internally according to the principles of the Code of Conduct for Manufacturers. The figures relate to Benetton Group S.r.l., Benetton India Pvt. Ltd, Benetton Japan Co. Ltd and Benetton Korea Inc. In 2016 Benetton consolidated its control over these issues, performing almost exclusively unannounced audits and updating the main tools for managing the audit process. Specific CSR technical training activities on supplier audits, aimed at employees of the HQ and the Group’s foreign companies, are planned for 2017. 90 91 3.3.2/ Management of environmental impacts Fighting climate change Energy consumption of direct stores API (GRI 302-4) Variation of API index Benetton’s contribution against climate change takes form through the implementation of initiatives to reduce energy consumption and, as a result, climate-altering gas emissions, associated with the head offices and direct stores. These projects, together with the now established practices and the new development directions introduced in the logistics 2014 100.00% network, produced significant benefits in 2016 in terms of energy savings and lower CO 2 emissions. 2015 98.32% In 2015 Benetton Group began performing energy assessments on a representative sample of stores and at the Ponzano and Castrette head offices, which provided a snapshot of the energy structure of the areas analyzed making 2016 97.47% it possible to identify the biggest critical issues in terms of energy consumption, for which an efficiency plan was subsequently defined and structured. The figures refer solely to stores under direct management for at least three years. Benetton Group also began measuring greenhouse gas emissions, both direct and indirect, due to energy consumption at the Ponzano and Castrette head offices and direct stores in Italy, and a large proportion of the The reductions recorded can mainly be attributed to the spread of the On Canvas concept which, as well as logistics distribution activities (Italy and Europe). architectural restyling, also involves energy efficiency measures such as the installation of high-efficiency air Below are the CO 2 emissions deriving from electricity and natural gas consumption in the 2014-2016 period: conditioning systems, the use of LEDs and the introduction of self-reading meters. This latter operation, in particular, forms part of a project (still at the test phase) for the remote monitoring and management of the energy consumption Type Unit 2014 2015 2016 of the lighting and air conditioning, lift and escalator systems in stores and head offices. The initiative will make it Emissions Scope 1 (GRI 305-1) possible to measure realtime consumption and to estimate future consumption, identify high-consumption areas and, Natural gas consumption in head offices t CO 2 1,872 2,292 2,170 as a result, improve energy performances, identify faults and define an effective prioritization and intervention plan. Natural gas consumption in direct stores t CO 2 n.a. 127 156 Total t CO2 1,872 2,419 2,326 Emissions Scope 2 (GRI 305-2) Electricity consumption in head offices t CO 2 6,542 6,410 6,225 Electricity consumption in direct stores t CO 2 5,421 5,597 5,828 Total t CO2 11,963 12,007 12,053 In 2016 CO 2 emissions due to the consumption of natural gas fell slightly. Conversely, compared with the previous year there was a slight increase in carbon dioxide emissions deriving from electricity consumption. The increase is due to emissions connected with the electricity consumption of direct stores which recorded a positive trend in 20142016 because of the new openings during the year (17) and not because they became more energy intensive. In fact, compared with 2014, on a like-for-like basis in terms of sales area and opening hours there was a reduction in the electricity consumption of directly managed stores of around 2.5%. This reduction is quantified through the API, Area Performance Index, which relates the annual electricity consumption of a specific store to its sales area and its total number of opening hours during the year. The Group uses this index to monitor and compare the energy consumption levels of direct stores. 92 93 3.3.2/Management of environmental impacts 3.3.2/Management of environmental impacts These systems were also installed at Benetton Campus where, thanks to the efficient redistribution of work and Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) management spaces and the upgrading of the systems, over the years the Company has been able to optimize and reduce its energy consumption. 2014 2.09 In the three-year period in question, there was a reduction in energy consumption also at the Ponzano and Castrette head offices. 2015 1.64 Energy consumption (GRI 302-1) Unit 2014 2015 2016 2016 1.59 Total electricity kWh 18,223,711 17,856,026 17,445,025 Average global value 2016: 1.80 Ponzano kWh 5,579,713 5,078,621 4,935,040 Castrette kWh 12,643,998 12,777,405 12,405,808 The electricity consumption of the Castrette center has also fallen thanks to the implementation of systems to Seamless kWh 104,177 control the lighting and cooling systems, this despite the fact that the Seamless project was launched at one of the Total natural gas m3 957,488 1,172,124 1,110,103 center’s warehouses in August 2016, bringing a small part of production back to Treviso. This project, which entailed Ponzano m3 306,182 359,740 311,181 the installation and start-up of 36 Shima Seiki machines, resulted in an energy consumption of 104,177 kWh in 2016. Castrette m3 651,306 812,384 798,922 Following on the activities carried out in previous years, further energy efficiency measures are in the pipeline for Total electricity GJ 65,605 64,282 62,803 2017, including: the refurbishment of one of the Central Heating Plants at Castrette, the redevelopment of one of the Total natural gas GJ 33,531 41,047 38,875 summer and winter climate control units at Ponzano, and the replacement of the UPS of the electric stations. Total energy consumed GJ 99,136 105,329 101,678 Benetton’s commitment for the next year also include that of using 100% green electricity from renewable sources for HQ and its directly-managed stores. The electricity and natural gas consumption of the Ponzano center was forecast on the basis of its energy bills. The energy consumption of Fabrica S.p.A., Ponzano Children S.r.l. and Villa Minelli Società Agricola S.r.l. is not reported. Green logistics The Group continued with its objective of reducing emissions of harmful substances and its energy consumption, 100,000 introducing a series of actions targeted at the various phases of the value chain. More specifically, for some 105,329 101,678 99,136 time Benetton Group has been refocusing lots of attention on promoting and implementing projects to reduce 80,000 environmental impact connected with the logistics and distribution of its garments in the markets in which it operates. 60,000 In 2016 the CO 2 emissions connected with the entire logistics network, both inbound and outbound, fell by 22.6% 65,605 64,282 62,803 versus 2015, a reduction of 6,064 tons of CO 2 emitted into the atmosphere. Confirming the results achieved, there 40,000 was a reduction of around 13% in the CO 2 emitted per garment per km traveled, the reference indicator used by the 41,047 38,875 Group to monitor the environmental impact of its logistics system. 20,000 33,531 (GJ) 2014 2015 2016 Type Unit 2015 2016 Energy consumed Electricity Natural Gas Logistics t CO 2 26,885 20,821 Indicator of intensity g CO 2/garment x km 0,078 0,068 In 2016 there was an increase in the density of garments per cubic meter, a factor that contributes to the reduction in value of the indicator. With regard to the Ponzano site, the reduction in energy consumption was mainly due to the activities to improve the efficiency of the Data Center cooling system which, accounting for around 35% of the center’s energy consumption, Reduction of end-to-end CO 2 emissions per garment/km represents the most energy-intensive area of the entire campus. The measures, which commenced in 2012, involved In 2016 the Group reduced by 13% end-to-end CO 2 emissions per garment per kilometer traveled. the installation of a new chiller, the activation of an automated hydraulic bypass between the Data Center cooling system and the system serving the other buildings, and the replacement of the IT equipment UPS with a new highly reliable and highly efficient system. The efficacy of these measures can be quantified through the PUE (Power Usage 2015 0.0780 Effectiveness) index, a parameter used to measure the efficiency of the Data Centers which relates the total power absorbed by a computer center (ventilation, powering IT devices, UPS failures) with the amount required solely to 2016 0.0685 power the IT equipment. Over these four years the PUE of the Ponzano Data Center has fallen sharply from around g CO2 garment x km 2.5 in 2012 to around 1.59 in 2016, well below the average global value (1.80). 94 95 3.3.2/Management of environmental impacts 3.3.2/Management of environmental impacts The results achieved are connected with the use of less impacting types of transport in terms of CO 2 emitted, such Polluting chemical substances as the reduction in air transport for inbound logistics and for outbound logistics towards countries outside Europe. Benetton Group decided to join the Greenpeace Detox campaign in 2013. The aim of this campaign is the complete Another initiative launched in 2016 regards the movement of goods to Spain, now transported by ship rather than elimination of the use of hazardous chemical substances in textile/clothing industry manufacturing processes by 2020. road thanks to the introduction of Roll-on/Roll-off, a ship loading technique that does not require the use of cranes More specifically, the Detox Commitment calls for the following actions: as the transportation vehicles are motor vehicles that are able to drive on and off the ship using a ramp. Going against ; complete elimination of 11 groups of chemical substances by 2020; the general trend, the level of CO 2 emissions connected with outbound logistics within Italy increased mainly due to ; adoption and publication of a “Restricted Substances List” (RSL); the switch from sea transport to transport via lorry in the stretch towards Sicily. ;  publication of the results of tests on water discharged by suppliers that use wet processes (dyeing and laundering) with the goal of publishing 80% of the wet supply chain by 2017. Saturation of transportation vehicles At operational level, an accurate and complete overview of the management and use of chemical substances in the With the aim of streamlining the number of transport vehicles used to distribute the garments to its stores, Benetton supply chain is possible thanks to the aforementioned “Restricted Substances List”, an integral part of the supply Group does not use pallets to store crates on vehicles, in this way achieving a load capacity of 90% as compared with agreement that defines the limits and parameters to apply both to products (constantly monitored through a targeted an average possible value of 70%. As well as being efficient from an economic perspective (the unit cost of transport sampling plan) and to production processes (through an annual monitoring plan at production sites). is one of the lowest on the market), this practice has made it possible to reduce the number of trucks used by around This second type of control is focused on “wet processes”, i.e. dyeing and washing, processing phases in which chemical 20%. In practice, one in five trucks has been removed from the road with a consequent saving in terms of CO 2 substances like dyes and other additives are often used dissolved in water. emissions of around 511 t/year. As well as the chemical analysis of water, designed to check whether the banned substances have been used, Benetton has established a “Chemical Audit Protocol”, a checklist for the 360° assessment of its suppliers as regards the impact Intermodal transport analysis deriving from the management of the chemical substances used. Thanks to the “Control Tower End-to-End Visibility” system which makes it possible to trace the entire logistics Improvements and benefits were possible right away thanks also to Benetton’s participation in the Zero Discharge network (inbound and outbound), in 2015 the Group launched a CO 2 emissions assessment based on the of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) program (www.roadmaptozero.com) which saw various brands set themselves the information available relating to the routes traveled and the methods of transport employed. This analysis provided ambitious goal of using a holistic approach to drive the widespread implementation of sustainable chemistry and best a snapshot of the situation and enabled the Group to classify its suppliers and routes on the basis of the lowest practices in the textile and footwear industries to protect consumers, workers and the environment. impact transport solutions. The project aimed at reducing emissions through the adoption of low environmental As well as the principle of precaution, a cornerstone of Benetton philosophy to which the Company has stayed true impact transport solutions was launched in 2016. Six European routes were identified on which to test the intermodal through the constant monitoring of its entire supply chain, research and transparency in providing public information transport and the reduction of CO 2 emissions was calculated for each route according to the percentage of mode on its progress are other factors with which Benetton Group wishes to be synonymous (www.benettongroup.com/ change. The results highlighted an average reduction in emissions of 22% per route, for a total of 121.3 t CO 2/year. sustainability/detox/). In December 2016, in line with its commitment to the Detox campaign, Benetton Group published the results of the Correct management of Company waste tests on wastewater relating to 70% of the suppliers involved in the “wet processes” of its production activities. Details Benetton Group adopts a correct ethical and environmental approach in the area of waste management, in line with on the results of the tests can be found at: http://.benettongroup.com/sustainability/detox/supply-chain-disclosure/ industry regulations and its responsibilities. water-test-results/. In order take full advantage of the tests on water, in 2016 a research project was developed in association with the Department of Environmental Sciences, IT and Statistics of Ca’ Foscari University of Venice. The research is based on data collected over a three-year period from over 100 plants in 10 countries and reports the Total waste production Ponzano and Castrette results and the trends as regards treated and untreated incoming water. These efforts were rewarded. In fact, in 2016 the Group was named among the top three brands in the “Avant-Garde” 1,920 33 category of the Greenpeace Detox campaign rankings. This important acknowledgment, which follows those of 2015 2014 1,690 (88%) 230 and 2013, rewards companies that have made greatest progress towards the complete elimination of toxic substances 1,558 148 from their processes. 2015 1,390 (89%) 169 In particular, this year Greenpeace rewarded Benetton Group for its widespread efforts to eliminate 11 potentially 1,781 175 harmful groups of chemicals from its production processes and for carrying out very stringent tests on wastewater, 2016 1,593 (89%) 188 defining this the “clean factory” approach, a method that is not only extended to the production of Benetton clothes but to the entire production chain. (t) Recurring waste Occasional waste Sorted waste Unsorted waste In 2016, 56 suppliers underwent an audit regarding the chemical substances used in the production phase; of these, around 66% complied with the Group’s valuation criteria, an increase compared with 2014-2015. During the year the Group terminated relations with 78.9% of suppliers that were identified as having a negative impact on the environment. 96 97 3.3.2/Management of environmental impacts 3.3.3/ Sustainability of raw materials Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain Benetton Group approach to sustainability also regards raw materials and their impact. For this reason the Company and actions taken by the Group (GRI 308-2) 2014 2015 2016 has embarked on a process that will permit increasing use of the most sustainable raw materials. In line with this goal, Total number of suppliers 530 547 495 of which: to ensure that its garments are manufactured with the utmost respect for nature, people and animals, Benetton Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 48 40 56 Group has made a series of commitments in recent years: Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual ; the Company has a strict ban on the use of natural fur in its clothing and accessories; and potential negative environmental impacts 38 31 19 ; in 2016 Benetton began the process of compliance with the Responsible Down Standard; Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed ; i n 2016, 6.1% of cotton garments were made from organic cotton. Benetton Group also began a process that will upon as a result of assessment 38 31 19 make it possible to increase the amount of sustainable cotton used in its garments in the next few years. Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed Furthermore, in March 2017 Benetton Group joined the IWTO (International Wool Textile Organization) which upon as a result of assessment 100% 100% 100% Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential seeks to represent the interests of the wool textile industry at global level, facilitate industry strategies, guarantee negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated production standards and sustainability, and foster connections between the various stakeholders in the market. as a result of assessment 6 4 15 Membership of the IWTO will enable Benetton Group to consolidate its commitment to the sustainability and Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential transparency of the supply chain, launching a permanent dialog with the main players in the wool production chain and negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment 15,8% 12,9% 78,9% participating, with an active role, in discussions on important topical issues such as the recycling of wool, the quest for quality yarn and the application of animal welfare principles to the wool textile production chain. The reporting boundary is limited to Benetton Group S.r.l. Raw materials used in the composition of garments marketed by Benetton Group In line with its commitment to eliminating polluting substances from its supply chain, in 2016 Benetton Group launched a number of projects to use non-synthetic dyes extracted from plants or obtained from the processing of stones and Raw materials (GRI 301-1) Unit 2014 2015 2016 minerals. These initiatives led to the creation of clothes lines produced exclusively with 100% natural pigments, such as Total t 31,138 30,799 27,082 the Mineral Dye collection. Renewable The possibility of coloring fabrics by drawing directly on the natural world represents an important alternative to Cotton* t 21,923 21,605 18,803 traditional dyeing which involves the use of synthetic dyes and in 2017 Benetton Group will continue to invest resources Wool* t 1,559 1,309 1,326 in the research and development of innovative instruments that guarantee the safety and quality of its clothes. Linen* t 122 126 154 Mixed (natural fibers) t 148 209 197 Non-Renewable Artificial fibers t 6,167 6,074 5,167 Mixed (natural/artificial/synthetic fibers) t 1,219 1,476 1,435 The figures reported in the table relate to apparel. For Benetton Japan and Benetton Giyim Sanayi Ve Ticaret A.S. the quantities of raw materials purchased from parent Company Benetton Group S.r.l were included, while the quantities of raw materials deriving from external suppliers and purchased directly by companies at local level are not currently available. * pure raw material > 35% 98 99 3.3.3/Sustainability of raw materials 3.3.3/Sustainability of raw materials Materials used for the packaging of garments Packaging (GRI 301-1) Unit 2016 Total t 5,911 Renewable Paper and cardboard t 4,825 Non-Renewable Polyethylene (PE) t 1,084 Iron t 2 The reporting boundary is limited to Benetton Group S.r.l. Reduction of packaging The Company’s focus on the environment also takes tangible form in its choice of packaging. Currently only 50% of the garments arriving at the central warehouse are packaged in cardboard boxes; these are later gathered together in special compacters and handed over to an external company for recovery. The other 50% of the garments are transported in reusable metal baskets allowing for an estimated reduction in cardboard consumption of around 1,340 t/year, the equivalent of around 20,000 trees. For some time an initiative has been underway at the Group’s Indian site to recover the cardboard boxes used to transport the garments that arrive at the warehouse. In fact, over 300,000 cardboard boxes are reused multiple times every year before being recycled, thus making it possible to reduce paper consumption. FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Since January 2010 anyone making a purchase in a Benetton Group’s store has been taking their items home in eco-friendly white kraft paper shopping bags, produced entirely with water-based inks and supplied by a paper mill certified by the “Forest Stewardship Council” (FSC), whose trademark identifies products from forests that are controlled and managed on a socially and environmentally sustainable basis. The Company’s catalogues, brochures and other printed communication materials are also now made from the same type of eco-friendly FSC-certified paper. 100 101 Annex Methodological notes Annex/Methodological notes Annex/Methodological notes Benetton Group’s Integrated Report illustrates how value is created over time through the connections between In 2016 Benetton Group launched numerous communication and engagement activities for both its internal and financial and non-financial factors, and the business’s primary sustainability performance indicators. external stakeholders. More specifically, during the year the “Internal communication” project was launched for employees with the aim The principles and content of the “International <IR> Framework” issued in December 2013 by the International of strengthening the Group’s communications and increasing the engagement and level of knowledge of all people Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) were taken into account when preparing the Integrated Report. The report was in Benetton world. Through this project, the result of collaboration between the Communications department and also prepared in accordance with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards” defined in 2016 by the Global Reporting the Engagement & Internal Communication team, a series of different tools were made available to employees. Of Initiative (GRI), adopting the core option. particular significance among these is KNIT, the Company magazine for all employees in Italy and abroad, including employees of the Group’s partner stores. The magazine gathers together information on the main initiatives launched Our stakeholders by Benetton Group, as well as updates on the “People Care” activities. In support of the initiative, at the head offices of Taking the areas of Company activity into account, Benetton Group has mapped its stakeholders, dividing them into: Ponzano and Castrette 20 KNIT points were set up with monitors relaying the main content of the magazine. 2016 also ; internal: people that are part of the Company; saw the Company Intranet, the Group’s most effective global communications tool, undergo a complete technology ;  external: people that work along the Group’s value creation chain or that are indirectly influenced/affected by the upgrading and redevelopment process. Company’s activities. Benetton Group’s commitment to constructing solid relations with its stakeholders also takes the form of targeted During this operating period around 30 relevant categories of stakeholders were identified which, through dedicated “Public Affairs” activities. interviews and workshops with the main Company departments, were subsequently prioritized on the basis of: To this end, the initiatives launched by the Group in 2016 were mainly focused on expanding and consolidating ; their dependence on Benetton; its network of institutional relations through the organization of meetings with parties and bodies that act as ; their influence on Benetton. spokespersons for issues related to human rights. In April 2016, Benetton Group took part in the conference “Human rights in the Company: winning the challenge of integration” and, in the same month, in “The value of sustainable Made in Italy” meeting, during which the “Guidelines on the ecotoxicological requirements of clothing, leather goods, footwear and accessories” were presented. Both events were an opportunity for Benetton Group to consolidate its relations with a number of Italian institutions and share and CONSUMERS discuss issues that are very dear to the Group. EX T ER During the “World Humanitarian Summit” in Istanbul in May 2016, Benetton Group launched the “Safe Birth Even Here” NA SUPPLIERS LS campaign together with the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), an event that enabled the Group to expand its T AK network of institutional relations. S DE In addition, during the year Benetton Group carried out an ongoing legislation monitoring activity with the aim of UNIONS D ER OL identifying issues potentially subject to regulation, institutional dynamics and movements of opinion, thus enabling it to L EH INTERNAL STAK RS interpret the political, institutional and social context in which the Company operates. The main aspects subject to monitoring in 2016 regarded the following areas. ; human rights EH COMMUNITY COLLEAGUES ; environment and product life cycle O SHAREHOLDERS ASSOCIATIONS ; product-related policies (toxic substances, consumer health) ; animal welfare OTHER CLOTHING ; supply chain and stakeholder engagement BRANDS WORKERS’ UNIONS MEDIA ; ethics in business ; advertising and communication ; consumer rights REGULATORY NGOs BODIES UNIVERSITIES BUSINESS PARTNERS 104 105 Annex/Methodological notes Annex/Methodological notes Materiality assessment High _ Responsible _ Respect for human _ Management of human The degree of detail with which the different topics within the Report are treated reflects the results of the materiality and transparent and workers’ rights capital and equal assessment. communication _ Relations with local opportunities communities _ Responsible supply The materiality assessment is a process aimed at identifying, assessing and prioritizing the most significant issues from chain management both the Company’s point of view and that of its stakeholders. As envisaged by the GRI Standards, material topics _ Consumer experience have been identified by considering the importance of the impacts of business activities both within and outside the and product quality _ Product safety reporting boundary, meaning throughout the entire value chain of Benetton Group. In particular, the first stage in the process of defining materiality was to identify relevant topics using the following steps: Relevance for Stakeholders ; media analysis aimed at mapping media coverage and public interest in each topic; ; benchmark analysis of the topics covered by major companies operating in the same sector as Benetton Group; _ Management of end _ Polluting chemicals _ Consolidation of ; mapping of priorities and strategic business objectives; of life products _ Responsible raw business model and ;  prioritization of the identified topics through individual interviews with management during which the key business _ Fight against corruption materials supply profitability functions were asked to rank the topics in terms of their importance for Benetton Group; _ Climate change _ Brand awareness/ ;  the analysis of the relevance of the topics for stakeholders was carried out by weighting each single aspect in terms Brand building of its importance to the stakeholder in question; _ Innovation ;  a ggregation of the interview results and formulation using criteria that took into account other qualitative aspects, _ Digital Transformation as well as the perception of Company management. As regards the relevance for Benetton Group the following factors were considered: ; Company commitment and policies concerning each topic; ;  the impact of each topic on the Company’s capital as identified by the framework <IR> (financial, manufactured, _ Waste management _ Sustainable design _ Leadership continuity intellectual, human, natural, social and relationship capital). _ Packaging _ Multichannel sales and corporate _ Water consumption strategy and focus on governance stability With regard to the importance for stakeholders, the primary factor was the specific relevance of the different topics strategic markets for the sector in which Benetton Group operates. _ Traceability of logistic network _ Energy consumption Low Low Relevance for Benetton High The material topics were then compared with the aspects defined by the GRI Standards, as set out in the following table. The table also indicates the boundary of each aspect and any limitations involving failure to extend reporting to the aspect boundary outside the organization. As for the material aspects outside of Benetton Group, but currently not reported, the Company will focus its attention in coming years on implementing specific activities designed to gradually extend the scope of disclosure. 106 107 Annex/Methodological notes Annex/Methodological notes Aspect boundary Disclosure limitations on aspect boundary Reporting boundary and sustainability context GRI Standards material aspects Within organization Outside organization Within organization Outside organization This document is the first edition of Benetton Group’s Integrated Report and contains a description of initiatives and Economic performance Group activities carried out during calendar year 2016 and performance trends during the three years from 2014 to 2016, Procurement practices Group where available. Raw materials Group Suppliers Disclosure partially extended Performance indicators are gathered and reported on an annual basis. to suppliers The information reported refers to Benetton Group S.r.l. and its subsidiaries in Italy and abroad (Retail Italia Network Effluents and waste Group Suppliers Disclosure partially extended S.r.l., Fabrica S.p.A., Ponzano Children S.r.l., Benetton Servizi S.r.l., Benetton India Pvt. Ltd, Benetton Korea Inc., to suppliers Benetton Asia Pacific Ltd, Benetton Retail Sucursal en España, New Ben GmbH, Benetton Russia O.O.O., Benetton Emissions Group Suppliers; Logistics; Disclosure partially Disclosure not extended to Mexicana S.A. de C.V., Kazan Real Estate O.O.O., Benetton Giyim Sanayi A.S., Benetton Group S.r.l. Sucursal em Indirect stores (IOS/ extended oly to direct indirect stores and suppliers; FOS) stores and to Italian partially extended to logistics Portugal, Benetton Japan Co. Ltd., Benetton Retail Poland Sp. Z.O.O., Benetton Group S.r.l. Succursale en France). HQ The headquarters of Benetton Group S.r.l. are located in Via Villa Minelli, Ponzano Veneto (Treviso), while its industrial Supplier environmental assessment Group complex is at Via della Cartiera no. 1, Castrette di Villorba (Treviso). Employment Group The reporting boundary coincides with the above, except for some data, as indicated in the text. Labor/management relations Group Occupational health and safety Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended Principles for ensuring report quality to suppliers The information reported has been gathered with the aim of providing a balanced and clear picture of the Company’s Training and education Group Indirect stores (IOS/ Disclosure partially extended actions and characteristics. The process of reporting the information and quantitative data has been structured so as to FOS) to indirect stores ensure data comparability over time, where possible, in order to provide an accurate reading of the information and a Diversity and equal opportunity Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended complete view to all stakeholders interested in trends in Benetton’s performance. to suppliers Non-discrimination Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended to suppliers Calculation methods Details of the methods used for certain indicators reported in this document are provided below. The data referred to Freedom of association Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended to suppliers 2016 are the best possible estimate with the information available at the time of the drafting of this Report. Child labor Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended to suppliers Retention after parental leave Forced or compulsory labor Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended The retention rate after parental leave is calculated as the number of workers employed 12 months after returning to suppliers from maternity/parernity leave compared to the number of employees that took the parental leave during the year. Local communities Group Suppliers Disclosure not extended to suppliers Injury rates Supplier assessment for impacts Group Details of the methods of calculation used for injury rates are provided below: on society ; Severity rate: working days lost for injuries/hours worked x 1,000 Customer health and safety Group ; Frequency index: no. injuries/hours worked x 1,000,000 Marketing and product labeling Group Socioeconomic compliance Group The rates for all three years have been calculated for employees only and exclude interns and other staff on temporary contracts. To calculate the lost day rate, lost days have been calculated as calendar days from the day the incident occurred (unless the latter was worked in part). Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions were calculated using the principles indicated in the ISO 14064-1 international standard. In particular, the only gas considered was carbon dioxide (CO 2). The emission factors used to calculate the CO 2 emissions disclosed in the Report were determined in the following way: Direct emissions Scope 1: the emissions related to the consumption of natural gas for the heating of the head offices (Ponzano and Castrette) and direct stores (RIN) were determined using the emission factor reported in the table of national standard parameters published by the Italian Environment Ministry. 108 109 GRI Content Annex/Methodological notes Index Indirect emissions Scope 2: for emissions connected with the consumption of electricity purchased from the national grid the emission factor used is the one reported in the tables, published by Terna, of the international comparisons available for 2014, the source for which is Enerdata. Indirect emissions Scope 3: for the CO 2 emissions connected with transport in the logistics network, Ecotransit software was used, a tool developed by the Institute for environmental and energy research (Institut für Energieund Umweltforschung, Ifeu) of Heidelberg and Rail Management Consultants GmbH (RMCon). For information, please contact: Roberto Taiariol Phone +39 0422 519270 Nicoletta Sartori Phone +39 0422 519269 csr@benetton.it 110 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-48 Restatement of information 109-110 102-49 Changes in reporting 109-110 Organizational profile 102-50 Reporting period to which the social responsibility report refers 109-110 102-1 Name of the organization 109 102-51 Date of most recent previous social responsibility report 109 102-2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 14-17; 20-22 102-52 Reporting cycle 109 102-3 Location of the organization’s headquarters 109 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the social responsibility report and its 109 102-4 Countries in which the organization operates 14-17; 20-22; contents 32-43 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 104 102-5 Nature of ownership and legal form 14-17; 109 102-55 GRI content index 112-119 102-6 Markets served 40-43 102-56 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the The present Report is not 102-7 Scale of the organization 20; 33; 40-41; social responsibility report subject to external assurance 52; 73 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 72-75 102-9 Description of the supply chain (number of suppliers, volumes and sourcing 32-35; 38-43; markets) 87-100 102-10 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s 19 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain 102-11 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 47-49 by the organization 102-12 External initiatives 58-59, 87-91; 97-98 102-13 Memberships of national and/or international advocacy organizations 90 Strategy 102-14 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about 7 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability Ethics and integrity 102-16 Mission, values, codes of conduct, principles relevant to economic, 66-67; 87-88; environmental and social performance, developed internally and state 90-91; 97-98 of progress in their implementation Governance 102-18 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the 23-27 highest governance body. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups with which the organization engages 104-105 102-41 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 75 102-42 Basis for identification and selection of primary stakeholders with whom to 104-105 engage 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 104-105 102-44 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 62; 64-65; engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics 68-69; 76-79, and concerns, including through its reporting 86; 89-91; 97-98 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 109 102-46 Defining Report content and topic boundaries 106-108 102-47 List of material topics 106-108 112 113 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard MATERIAL TOPICS GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Quantity of water discharged by volume and quality 96-98 Some information regarding ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS this indicator is not currently available. Benetton undertakes, in the coming years, to Economic performance indicators gather the data needed to GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 disclose this indicator 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 Supplier environmental assessment 103-2 The management approach and its components 44-46; 50-52 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 44-46; 50-52 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 GRI 201: Economic performance 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 97-100 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 97-100 Procurement practices GRI 308: Supplier environmental assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 97-98 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 103-2 The management approach and its components 33-35 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 33-35 GRI 204: Procurement practices 2016 Employment 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations 33; 87 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 of operation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-79 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-79 GRI 401: Employment 2016 Raw materials 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 76-79 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 401-3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave (by gender) 78 103-2 The management approach and its components 99-100 Labor/management relations 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 99-100 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 301: Raw materials 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 99-100 103-2 The management approach and its components 83 Emissions 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 83 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding organizational changes 83 103-2 The management approach and its components 92-96 Occupational health and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 92-96 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 92 103-2 The management approach and its components 84-85 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 92 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 84-85 305-3 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 95-96 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 95-96 GRI 403-1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 84-85 Effluents and waste management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and advise on occupational health and safety programs 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 GRI 403-2 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and total 85 103-2 The management approach and its components 96-98 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 96-98 114 115 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard Training and education GRI 408: Child labor 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 408-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers having significant risk for The information regarding 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to its elimination this indicator is not currently 103-2 The management approach and its components 80-82 available. Benetton undertakes, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 80-82 in the coming years, to gather the data needed to disclose GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 this indicator 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender 81 Forced or compulsory labor and by employee category GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 82 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 Diversity and equal opportunity 103-2 The management approach and its components 86; 87-91 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86; 87-91 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 23-27; 76-77; 86 409-1 Operations having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, The information regarding 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 23-27; 76-77; 86 and measures to contribute to its abolition this indicator is not currently GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 available. Benetton undertakes, 405-1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according 23-27; 74-75 in the coming years, to gather to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of the data needed to disclose diversity this indicator Non-discrimination Local communities GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 103-2 The management approach and its components 76-77; 86-89 103-2 The management approach and its components 89-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 76-77; 86-89 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 89-91 GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 413: Local communities 2016 406-1 Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 86; 87-89 The information regarding 413-1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 89-91 this indicator is not currently impact assessments, and development programs available. Benetton undertakes, Supplier assessment for impacts on society in the coming years, to gather GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 the data needed to disclose this indicator 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 Freedom of association 103-2 The management approach and its components 87-91 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 87-91 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 GRI 414: Supplier assessment for impacts on society 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 86; 87-91 414 -1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86; 87-91 414-2 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain 87-91 and actions taken GRI 407: Freedom of association 2016 Customer health and safety GRI 407-1 Identification of operations and main suppliers in which the right to exercise The information regarding freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and this indicator is not currently GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 measures taken to support these rights available. Benetton undertakes, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 in the coming years, to gather 103-2 The management approach and its components 66-67 the data needed to disclose 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 66-67 this indicator GRI 416: Customer health and safety 2016 Child labor 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service 66 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 categories 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 103-2 The management approach and its components 86; 87-91 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86; 87-91 116 117 GRI Content Index GRI Content Index GRI Disclosure Page number Omission GRI Disclosure Page number Omission Standard Standard 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning There have been no Socioeconomic compliance the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, significant incidents of nonGRI 103: Management Approach 2016 by type of outcomes compliance with regulations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 and voluntary codes 103-2 The management approach and its components 47-49; 62-71 concerning the health and 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47-49; 62-71 safety impacts of products and services during their GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance 2016 life cycle in the three-year 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area In the three-year period period 2014-2016 2014-2016 Benetton has Marketing and labeling not received significant fees for non-compliance with laws GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 and regulations concerning 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 104-108 the provision and use of 103-2 The management approach and its components 68-71 products and services 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 68-71 GRI 417: Marketing and labeling 2016 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling All products marketed by the Group, regardless of product sector, report the information required by law in the country in which they are marketed on their labels. More specifically, information is provided on: country of origin, presence of toxic substances, methods of disposal. 417-2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary There have been no codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of significant incidents of outcomes non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling in the three-year period 2014-2016 417-3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary There have been no codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, significant incidents of promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes non-compliance regarding consumer protection that determined the payment of monetary fine by the Group in the three-year period 2014-2016 118 119 Acknowledgements Thank you to all the colleagues who give their collaboration for the success of this project. Registered office Benetton Group S.r.l. Single shareholder company Villa Minelli 31050 Ponzano Veneto (Treviso) Italy Corporate information Share capital: euro 200,000,000 fully paid-in Fiscal code/ Treviso company registrar no. 03490770264
