Sustainability Report 2017 Photo: pixabay.com / Free-Photos Foreword by our CEO Since the latest report on our sustainability At Plougmann Vingtoft it is our vision to make progress in 2016, we have worked on executing a difference by strengthening knowledge, our corporate strategy, and as a part thereof it is innovation and creativity. our ambition to launch a dedicated corporate social responsibility (CSR) policy in 2018 to With our vision, we wish to inflict on our surroundfurther show our obligation to contribute to and to dings the deeper meaning of our function in make a positive impact on society, locally as well society, and acknowledge our field of work as part as in a global context. of something greater. In this report, we have highlighted a few of the By strengthening the knowledge, we help the inventions that have proven to be groundbreaking community, the companies and the people to take for society and in which our employees have been advantage of the huge potential which is unfolded involved in a strong belief that what we do is in and around the global IPR system. By strengthimportant to society and that we can make a ening innovation and creativity, we show that difference in doing to. development and success is built on good ideas and the ability to think outside the box. We take Throughout 2017, Plougmann Vingtoft has pride in the fact that we are committed to helping marked its 50th anniversary, and remarkably this our clients benefit from the global IP system and year our company won one of the most strengthening their competitive position in the prestigious awards within our line the IPR market. We live and practice this ideal in our daily business: “IP Firm of the Year” for Denmark. work. The stories behind the innovative products we have helped to protect speak of our passion for ideas, innovation and new thinking which spans almost every industry you can think of, and they have matured into an exhibition that we call “Ideas that have changed the world” in celebration of our now more than 50 years’ experience in providing Every year, the acknowledged British analysis and our services. news media, Managing Intellectual Property, presents awards to the IP consultancy firms Going forward, our CSR policy will be embedded around the world that have performed outstanding in the Plougmann Vingtoft brand with focus on throughout the past year. Winning an IP Global promoting projects, cooperation and supporting Award and the title “IP Firm of the Year” is indeed universities conducting research within green and a special achievement since only one firm per renewable energy, and we will continue to ensure country can win this Award. a close link to our human resource strategy on the job satisfaction of our employees. Winning the Award and thereby being ranked in the absolute top of our line of business certainly is I am pleased to confirm that Plougmann Vingtoft a boost to our skilled employees and it underlines reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the our commitment to helping innovative startups or United Nations Global Compact in the areas of multinationals to develop, protect and comerHuman Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticialize their ideas, inventions and brands by Corruption. In this annual Communication on means of intellectual property rights (IPR), from Progress, we describe our actions to continually which society will benefit as knowledge and improve the integration of the Global Compact innovative solutions to world problems become and its principles into our business strategy, available by means of new products deriving from culture and daily operations. We also commit to the ideas. sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Page 2/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 At Plougmann Vingtoft, we look forward to reporting on our progress on the social responsibility by living our vision, and we hope that you will enjoy reading this year’s sustainability report. Annette Siewert Lindgreen CEO Page 3/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 Human Rights and Labour feel the need to focus on a task without being disturbed by colleagues discussing a case or making telephone calls, etc. Furthermore, we In Denmark, the labour market is governed by have put up posters reminding people to consider many laws ensuring human rights to a very high to go someplace else if they need to discuss work degree, and we experience very few violations of in order not to disturb. This way we intend to the laws. Therefore, it may seem irrelevant to convert good intentions into lasting behavioral report on human rights compliance since at our changes for the benefit of all co-workers. end of the world, human rights such as freedom of Our employees are covered by an extra health association, and the elimination of e.g. forced insurance as part of their employment contract labour or child labour are regarded as obvious. which provides them with quick and competent However, we are well aware that this might not be treatment in case of physical or mental illness. As the case in other countries, and consequently, we an extra feature we also offer the spouses and are devoted to monitoring our foreign cooperation children of our employees also to benefit from the partners with a view to assessing their compliance insurance. Each Autumn, we offer vaccination free with human rights. of charge to our employees against influenza. Our employee handbook covers policies Psychosocial environment concerning our employee rights, physical and We aim at creating a mentally sound environment mental health, compensation packages, including where all employees can communicate openly pension and retirement schemes. with their colleagues and/or managers. Our Physical environment employees are with us because each and every As part of our human resource policy we focus on one creates value to our company, regardless of ensuring that our employees are provided safe their function or title, and consequently, we value and suitable work facilities, e.g. smoking or the opinion of all employees and encourage drinking alcohol is not allowed at our offices. everybody to speak up on matters of concern. To comply with an expressed wish for silence We dedicate resources to monitor, remedy and around the work place which some of our eliminate environmental and safety risks through employees pointed out as an issue in our latest our work environment committee, the members workplace assessment, we offer our employees to being elected by and among the employees for a use one-man offices in our premises when they three-year period during which they receive Page 4/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 mandatory work environment courses. The tailored to their individual function and level. In committee is chaired by our HR manager, and this way, all attorneys are introduced to processes together this group is also responsible for carrying that secure a consistent high level of quality in our workplace assessments at regular intervals. each single task. Our worklife committee also consists of We always have focus on having the highest employees elected among and by our employees, qualified and skilled people among our employees and they work to improve the job satisfaction in and consequently, we keep on investing in direct dialogue with the top management. Both providing our employees with relevant education. committees meet at regular intervals and minutes of the meetings are published at our company This past year, we have increased our focus on intranet. training and preparing our attorneys and specialists for the important changes on the Internal communication and individual European scene of IPR, which is i.a. affected by dialogues the EU patent package comprising the Unitary We support an open communication internally Patent and the Unified Patent Court (UPC). also view a view to avoiding harassment on the job. As soon as the new changes become effective, they will cause both challenges and opportunities Minimum once a year, we stage dialogue that IPR owners need to consider, and it is a top sessions between the employee and his/her priority for Plougmann Vingtoft to be able to manager on the performance and development of provide the best counselling to our clients and the employee, including the need for training, and associates on this topic at all times. also talk about what the employee can do to take responsibility for his/her contribution to the team We invest in having a position on the market as and overall to the company. In addition, we apply trusted advisors to our clients in areas that are a situational management principle in order to vital to their business. keep a close dialogue whenever needed with our employees to discuss topics such as workload, Our IPR coordinators also participate in additional also with a view to preventing stress and training and education, and many of them are enhancing job satisfaction. QIPA Qualified Intellectual Property Administrators and QTMA Qualified Trade Mark Professional development always a focus area Administrators. As a knowledge-based consultancy our employees are of course our greatest asset. To meet our Furthermore, a number of our IPR attorneys also employees’ expressed need for new challenges, work as lecturers at educational institutions such we constantly look for new ways to develop their as the University of Copenhagen and the three skills. largest Danish universities outside Copenhagen: The University of Aarhus, The University of Aalborg and The University of Southern Denmark. This year, it has been a key feature to ensure that the IT competences of our employees are up-todate, and consequently, we offer relevant training and courses. The digitized age requires an open mind and the readiness to embrace changes, and it is our ambition that our employees will be able to navigate and work efficiently and confidently with new digital processes. Offering students relevant job experience We continuously bring student workers into our company as a part of our social responsibility, We have a strong focus on the further developsince it is a great way of preparing young people ment of our employees. All of our IPR specialists for their work life after graduation. receive external as well as internal training Page 5/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 Offering students part-time employments is a way of ensuring that our students also have time to study while working for us. As for interns, we enter an agreement with their educational institution and offer students an internship, where they can practice their new skills, after they have completed their education/courses. Networking to create awareness about a career as an IPR attorney The education of IPR attorneys in Denmark is solely provided by private IPR firms, and it is of In our recruitment process, we have been great importance that companies take on the successful in using video portraits of employees responsibility of investing in educating new IPR sharing their stories about working for Plougmann attorneys. At Plougmann Vingtoft, we take this Vingtoft: http://www.pv.eu/about/job-career/ very seriously. Thus, this year we are proud to announce that we have seven young IPR attorney trainees receiving IPR attorney training at our Taking the leap from scholar to patent advisor company. We encourage our employees to work across the organization and to live their passions within their We also invest time in networking with students at work life since we strongly believe that if you universities, and provide lectures about career really want or enjoy something, you will opportunities within the field of IPR. accomplish your dreams. Diversity is one of our strengths Being an internationally oriented company, we believe in employee diversity, which means that we set our team of experts independent of “Every day I embark on some age/seniority, ethnicity, nationality and gender. new exciting project, that As an example, we employ both Japanese and someone has put a lot of US patent attorneys, and our staff holds many nationalities and different cultural backgrounds, energy into. I think that’s a which enables us to understand and communicate huge responsibility.” even better with our stakeholders and communities all over the world. Andreas Lauge Christensen Patent Attorney The male/female ratio of our company is close to being 42/58 which also contributes to providing gender diversity in our company. Facts and figures We have 81 employees (equal to 66 FTEs) 34 male and 47 female The average age at Plougmann Vingtoft is 42 43% of our employees have been at the company more than 8 years 16 of our 39 IP attorneys are qualified European Patent Attorneys 7 of our 16 European Patent Attorneys have been certified as European Patent Litigators 12 student workers are employed part-time Page 6/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 Ethical standards We highly value an open and transparent communication with our stakeholders and clients, and irrespective of the size of a client, we always organize a process tailored to the needs, budget and the goals of the specific client. Our business terms that are available at our website, cement that our relationship with our clients are built on a healthy foundation of mutual trust and balancing of expectations. In Denmark, the legislation concerning anti-money laundering has been enhanced during the past year, and even though as such we are not covered by the new rules, we have chosen to adapt those and to incorporate the essence into our business terms to show our firm commitment to avoid money laundering in connection with our business transactions. We have also published articles on how to avoid CEO and/or email fraud to share our knowledge broadly with our stakeholders on this high risk issue. Our business terms further includes a list of ethical standards describing that our main priority is to look after the interests of our clients and to safeguard their rights and retain our independency as professional advisors. We do so by operating within an ethical framework that is subject to codes of conduct of traderelated international organizations like ADIPA (Association of Danish Intellectual Property Attorneys), EPI (European Patent Institute), ECTA (European Communities Trade Mark Association), FICPI (International Federation of Intellectual Property Attorneys) and NPF (Norwegian Association of IP Attorneys). Page 7/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 Photo: pixabay.com / andreas160578 Focus on innovation networks and clean technology Innovation with great societal impact will mature into tangible products for the benefit of We have specialists in almost any industry sector. society. However, we have a particular strategic focus on sectors such as clean technology/renewable Working with clean technology energy and food which are areas where Denmark The world of intellectual property truly revolves has a strong reputation internationally. Also, we around innovation and inventions. Many of the believe that these areas serve a higher societal inventions we work with are smart solutions which purpose and benefit the world as a whole, e.g. by contribute to making small or large changes in the reducing carbon emissions and helping to environment and society. eliminate child malnutrition in developing countries and so forth. The clean technology sector is one of our primary industries and an important strategic focus. Clean Our life science experts within food and technology relates to products and services that agriculture have dedicated themselves to improve operational performance, productivity or participating in several clusters which are working efficiency while reducing costs, inputs, energy to improve and develop new foods and food consumption, waste or pollution. technologies. This area is one of our top strategic priorities since we acknowledge the fact that food Creators of clean technology need patent is rapidly becoming a scarce resource globally, protection for their inventions and investments, as and mankind needs to find new ways of it secures their business and stimulates further preventing widespread famine. We strive to assist innovation for the common benefit of our society. the R&D within foods for which Denmark is Communication on sustainable inventions renowned throughout the world by introducing the Within our team of IPR attorneys we have a highly world of IPR to the industry and helping competent and innovative cleantech team that companies gain from their innovations. helps promote technological development, which Furthermore, during the past year, our CEO has can improve environmental conditions. Besides participated in a network within research and working with the technological aspects of cleaninnovation focusing on the visions, possibilities tech, our experts are also keen on communicating and challenges related to Danish research the results and impacts of various inventions politics. The network aims as strengthening the within this sector. collaboration between universities and private Through many channels, including online articles, companies, which in our opinion is extremely case stories and blogs, we communicate the important in securing that knowledge and ideas stories behind the different inventions. In our Page 8/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 magazine, we have told stories about using algae such inventions of upcoming businesses, because as a ”green” form of aircraft fuel, the development we find it important to aid the good ideas and of a special type of fish feed for sustainable fish promote innovation that helps society as a whole. farming, using ozone for efficient water purification, and a solution for environmental This is a way for us to live our vision to make a garbage sorting and recycling. Additionally, we difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation and creativity. We have previously supported share stories of the societal impact of inventions creative entrepreneurs such as the people and and the strategic importance of IPR for example projects behind the trademarks DROPBUCKET® as means for creating financial security and and SITPACK®. covering risk management. We did this because we found that both initiatives Learning by helping others were innovative and true to our focus on sustainability. Read the exciting story behind As one of the only IPR firm in Denmark, SITPACK® here: Plougmann Vingtoft offers in-house services relating to technology transfer services and http://www.pv.eu/clients/startups/monomonocommercialization of inventions. This is offered kickstarter-success-through-tailored-trademarkthrough our specific brand: www.tto.eu. consulting/ We are currently in the process of finding a new We focus these services on helping companies project to support in line with our CSR strategy. and assisting universities in commercializing their inventions. Also, we help to improve the overall performance of their technology transfer units Our environmental impact through implementation of innovation As an office-based consultancy, the nature of our management processes. operations makes our direct environmental impact relatively small as compared to e.g. production Plougmann Vingtoft enjoys the cooperation with entrepreneurs and students, and the university plants. However, we are determined to stay sector is one of our most innovative and inspiring focused on the minimum use of resources and client bases. materials at our premises, and we are constantly on the outlook for ways to act environmentally Firstly, we help our clients obtain protection of sound. As an example, we work almost paperless their specific invention. Secondly, there are to minimize our consumption of resources and our occasions where we choose to partly sponsor impact on waste handling. Page 9/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 Anti-corruption Denmark – still the world’s least corrupt country Fortunately, administrative corruption, business corruption and other forms of corruption are very rare in Scandinavia. In 2016, Denmark received a score of 90 on the Corruption Perception Index (CPI) in a global study performed by the World Justice Project (WJP; no data for 2017 has been published). Thus, Denmark is the least corrupt country in the world for the third year in a row. See full country profile for Denmark on the WJP’s website: http://data.worldjusticeproject.org/#/groups/DNK Our Commitment Plougmann Vingtoft is committed to non-acceptance of all forms of bribery directly or indirectly, and we make an effort to ensure that all of our employees are aware of this policy. As highlighted in the section dealing with our ethical standard, Plougmann Vingtoft complies with the guidelines of Danish legislation regarding the ban of insider trading of stocks. Furthermore, we apply strict governance of e.g. financial approval procedures, and we keep our IT/IS and data security policies at a very high level to ensure the best possible protection of our clients’ data and information at all times. Page 10/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017 What we believe at Plougmann Vingtoft It is our vision to make a difference by strengthening knowledge, innovation and creativity. In accomplishing this, we help people and companies to take advantage of the huge potential, which is unfolded in and around the global IPR system, and we show that development and success is built on good ideas and the ability to think outside the box. This ideal is reflected in our daily work and lived through our company’s four core values: Commitment, Credibility, Creativity and Competence Photo: pixabay.com / Free-Photos Plougmann Vingtoft www.pv.eu Copenhagen Aarhus Rued Langgaards Vej 8 Åboulevarden 23 2300 Copenhagen S 8000 Aarhus C Denmark Denmark Munich Oslo Madrid Landshuter Allee 8-10 P.O.Box 1003 Sentrum Calle de Molina, 54. Planta 5 D-80637 München NO-0104 Oslo 28006 Madrid Germany Norway Spain Spain Page 11/11 – Plougmann Vingtoft © 2017
